ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	I will reopen the debate on the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Unwanted Effect from Non-Free Countries. We were still in the first term on the side of the Chamber. I call Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were just talking, at least one of our colleagues, about history. I thought: how would the Netherlands be if in 1612 Turkey had not been the first country to recognize the Netherlands, the Turks had not helped the paps in their fight against the Spaniards, but also that Morocco was actually the only country to help the Dutch if they were hunted down by the Spaniards at sea, near Tangier, and they were allowed to hide in the bay and be safe there? But then maybe I wouldn't have started with a good afternoon, but with buenos días, or something. Anyway, there's no point looking back. In the run-up to this debate, I realized that three times in my life, a woman didn't shake my hand. I thought that was weird. But I did say to myself at the time: look, in the private domain there is room for differentiation and own interpretation. As long as the law doesn't conflict with that, that's my measure. Of course, I find something of behavior from others, but it is not up to me to determine whether what another person does is right, or what another person should do. The freedom to be different is ultimately the most essential freedom that people possess. But let me begin by expressing appreciation for the committee. My group is happy to do so. Of course, in my group there are fundamentally different views in a number of respects, which are different from those of the committee members, who sometimes go further. But we understand you can't have everything. The result of the work of a committee in which all political parties are represented presupposes the willingness of everyone to at least try to find each other. That has happened, and I thank the committee for that. But I have noted that this willingness did not apply to all parties. The exception was the PVV. I noticed that this party is not so much a party with democratic fundamental rights, at least not for Muslims. They want to purify the Netherlands from Islam. It was in their election program. But I also thought it was a shame that the member Mulder got out of that committee and then started crying at the usual talk shows. I do not think that is respectful of fellow chamber members. It undermines the important role of the people's representative and does not show any willingness to engage in the debate on the basis of facts. Mr. Chairman. The "Parliamentary Interrogation Committee Unwanted influence from unfree countries," POCOB, is actually a bit of a misleading title. As far as I am concerned, it should have been called 'interrogation mosques' or 'interrogation Muslims'. I think POCOB is a bit of a weird title. But the question is whether it is not contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution if you have only selected for mosques and religion. The research that preceded this also indicated that there were problems in migrant churches, but they were not selected. Mr. Chairman. Then my second point before I really go into this. I have already said at the beginning that the committee has exceeded its mandate. Of at least one Islamic institution, funding has been requested in ten years from free countries. The committee did not ask the Chamber to do so. That's what the judge finds in his ruling. That actually whistles back to the committee and says: you do not have that right; it is not necessary for your questioning. Moreover, I can give that judgment to my colleagues, which is not a problem at all. I was genuinely wondering. We are investigating non-free countries with each other, but we see that the committee has also asked for some free countries and free countries. I therefore have the question of why the committee exceeded the mandate of the Chamber. I hope someone can answer that. Why did the committee also want information on funding from free countries? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Azarkan, at this point, we agreed to transfer that part of the stenogram to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, I'm almost at the end of this, Mr. Chairman. Why isn't that mentioned in the report? It does say that there have been two trials and that the parties disagreed, but it does not say that this committee has been flagged back by the judge on this point. I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you for making a comment on this, Mr President. I find it very uncomfortable to have a discussion here about what the committee would or would not have done. It has simply tried to bring out a number of things in a very broad representation. She gave it to us. We've asked the Cabinet to respond to that. Today we have the debate with this cabinet, which has indicated what it does with the findings of the committee. I find this very uncomfortable and I would ask Mr Azarkan to stop bashing the committee, because that is what I hear him do. I'm really sorry about that. They wanted to give us things and the cabinet responded to them. That is what I think this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is by no means my view that I want to bash the committee. I have expressed my appreciation for the work, even though there are elements in it that I do not agree with. But I really have a question. If the committee asks for a mandate through the Lower House and specifically focuses on it, why is that mandate exceeded? That's where she gets whistled back by the judge, and that's not nothing. I really have the question: why from free countries? Is it meant to be much wider? I have that question. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that I am bashing the committee, but that is not my intention. I'd really like to take that away. I hope I can get an answer to that, because I have that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	Well, let's be specific. Mr Azarkan has made quite an accusation here. He is raising all kinds of fog, namely that this committee would actually have gone far beyond its mandate and done all kinds of things that would not be right. What does Mr Azarkan mean? What free country has the committee focused on which the committee should not have focused? Can Mr Azarkan mention that country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	We could suspend for a while to read the verdict. I'd like to read it to you quietly. Mrs Bente Becker has not listened carefully to what has been done. There is not so much focus on a free country, but a lot of information has been requested from a number of organisations. At least one of these organisations has been asked: can you demonstrate and discuss what financial flows have been with your organisation from free countries, partly free countries and non-free countries? That organisation has said: that goes beyond the mandate of the committee. They objected to that. The judge has said: that is correct; the committee has not expressed sufficient conviction in this case as to why such information about free countries is reasonably necessary for its investigation into influence from non-free countries. If you want to know about the influence from non-free countries, why do you ask for information about free countries? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	We have all seen that the committee has done its best to obtain information from a number of mosques to gain insight into the funding. These are mosques where dubious things happen; I call an alFirah. Some of these mosques have said "well, we don't really want to understand" and have gone to court. Mr Azarkan is actually standing up for that position. He says: the committee's question was far too wide there; it should not have been. Well, the committee then said: yes, our research focuses on non-free countries, so we would like information from all countries with non-free elements. The committee has done this very well. So what does Mr Azarkan really want to say here? The committee has done its job properly, but it seems as if Mr Azarkan is now defending the position of mosques who did not want to give any insight into that funding. Why is that now the relevant point here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	This is really the cheapest trick. I see this come by so often: when I have critical questions, I'm put away as some kind of enemy. Mrs. Becker didn't read the documents properly. Mrs. Becker doesn't know that file. There has been no request for unfree countries or some of them free countries. My question is, also because I do not see it in the report: what is the committee's consideration? Why is one of the three organisations asked to transfer funding flows from free countries, including the Netherlands? I do not understand why this is necessary for the investigation, unless we believe that there can also be undesirable influence from free countries. But that was not the commission's mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	I would like to make a point of order, because we are going to have another debate on order, as I like it, because Mr Azarkan's question is a question addressed to the committee. We made the agreement that it would be answered by the committee by a written route. Still, you'll come back to it. I would like to give you both the opportunity to say something about this, but let us not go on for too long on this subject and just wait for what the committee will say in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then let me ask a political question. Does Mr Azarkan agree with me that it is quite appalling that this parliamentary committee of inquiry, a broad representative of the Netherlands, should eventually go to court to get answers to some of the fundamental questions raised in this parliamentary inquiry, and that this could not have been achieved in a normal way between an organization such as a mosque and a parliament? Does he resent that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	I would have liked these organisations to have delivered their finances in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	I was just curious. The committee delivered its final report on 25 June last year. The cabinet responded to it in November. Last Tuesday, the chairman of the committee said goodbye, and we all knew that the committee would not be here. That is not the order of the debate. Has Mr Azarkan considered indicating, perhaps earlier in the last seven months, that he has a question to the committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	That is a legitimate question from Mr Paternotte. Honesty commands me to say that I have studied the dossier very much, particularly in Christmas time and actually in the last two weeks. That's how I talked to a lot of mosque authorities. I'll explain later what that image is. I have also looked closely at a number of issues that are mentioned. This was not actually in the report; that is also my comment. It wasn't in the report. If this had been properly stated in the report, I would have explained it, but the report states that, unfortunately, one of the organizations had to go to court because she was struggling and did not want to give the information requested. I agree with Mrs Becker: if the committee asks, I think that organisations should join. Sure. As far as the issue of free countries is concerned, I was simply not aware of it. I just don't know why you want to know what the funding is from free countries. If anything has happened there, it can be done on the normal route, but it is not up to a committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Azarkan, of course, says quite a lot in himself. He says the committee has gone beyond its mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	Probably yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	You think it's an important subject. You have requested 100 minutes of speaking time. The report's been there for seven months. Do I understand that you have only come to the conclusion in the last few days that you believe that the committee has gone beyond its mandate and that it is only now that you have the opportunity to say anything about it and ask a question? You must also know that the committee would not be here and that the chairman is gone. At the moment they cannot answer the questions, but you have had seven months to say here at the scheme, at a committee or anywhere else that you would like to have a discussion with the committee to ask questions about how it carried out the assignment. Why didn't you make that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	The answer is exactly what you're saying. Only in the last few days have I focused on this part. So I've also looked into what that court ruling was. That's quite recent indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Perhaps Mr Azarkan can reflect on the usefulness of doing your homework in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	If you're in the Chamber with nineteen people, I imagine you have a little more time than three MPs. I just don't think it's very nice to have a colleague who tries to do all the debates with a small group. We've done all the budget treatments; we're a keen club to say: you should do your homework better. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	In short, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is absolutely true that DENK is diligently doing its job and doing all these budgetary treatments. I'm just saying it because you're making a really big point of this. Not only did you make a point of order at the beginning of the debate, in which the President said that it would be passed on and that an answer would be provided, but you will return to it now, at the beginning of a speech which will take 100 minutes. That's why I'm asking that question. You had seven months to ask that question. You knew there was no one here to answer that question directly. Why do you do that and why haven't you done it before? I think that is a legitimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	Certainly, and you have received a legitimate answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	You could, of course, have asked that question to your own colleague in your three-man group who was on the committee. I would like to ask you whether you have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	I did. He said, "I don't know." The agreement is that I do not get any information from the committee members. We are trying to separate that according to the right guidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mrs Van Toorenburg is still on this subject, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	I notice that I find it really very difficult what is happening here, also because the party that Mr Azarkan is actually standing up for is still the party that the whole of the Netherlands has been looking at with a kind of horror because of how these people, who have been heard and did not want to cooperate, set up. I am also looking at other people who have been very vulnerable to the committee and who have been threatened. Do I actually hear DENK standing up in this Chamber very "bravely" for the most wrong club we've seen there compared to all the other people, who have tried to just provide us all with information? I have to say quite frankly that I find that a bit freezing. So that's what I just wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	We also know this from Mrs Van Toorenburg; Mrs Becker did the same: 'you stand up for that party'. I stand up for the rule of law. I stand up for the fact that we as a Chamber have given a mandate for research into influence from non-free countries. I'm just asking the question. I am not of the same kind as Mrs Van Toorenburg, who has just called a number of people who have been questioned "weirdos." I find that really disgusting. That's what she said in one of the interruptions: "those creeps." I don't talk about people like that. I think people have rights in this country. I believe that they should remain within the legal order. If they don't behave the way I want them to, and if that's a criminal offence, we have a way to deal with it. But each time giving the qualification that someone is "a freak," I just don't think it's so neat. Anyway, that was also a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I know some of the three cases from my past. I noticed that in the case of Geleen in particular, the community was really abandoned there. That's what people said, sometimes with tears in their eyes. They have said that they have sought help from local authority and the ministry, but that there was no one to help them. That's how it happened. I deeply regret that. Mr. Chairman. There was something else going on at the Essalam Mosque. I've seen the beginning at close range, actually from the previous mosque. One of my uncles was one of the 1,000 people who put money in. That local community did indeed see that their mosque was increasingly controlled by people they didn't know very well. Those people didn't like it. The good thing is that not the politics of Sander Dekker, Mr Koolmees or the MPs have solved the problems; that is what the local Muslims themselves have done. I like to see that power of the Muslims. I spoke to the chairman last night. He says: we had the choice; we got €50,000 per month to do everything here, but with that we had no control anymore. The problem wasn't so much that very crazy things happened there, but they just wanted to be boss in their own mosque. They've gone to trial a number of times for that. They have made use of their legal freedoms and they have succeeded. That's because it said in the old statutes that the directors of the mosque had to be people from Rotterdam-Zuid. That was actually kind of the trick. In the end, they have said: with pain and difficulty we raise €8,000 to €10,000 per month; we have to pay for everything ourselves, but we prefer that rather than getting €50,000 per month but we don't have so much to say. I like that, but I never hear that around here. I never hear people talk about the power of those communities. It's like from here we always want to solve and prescribe everything for those mosques. I also wonder which one of you talks to a mosque board once in a while. Then you will see a very nuanced image. Then you will hear that in 2013, 2014 we had the low point in the development of radicalisation at that time. The mosques were done with that. The mosques hated what happened. The real problem of radicalisation did not happen within mosques. That often happened in living room sessions via YouTube movies. From the organisations it has been suggested very often to stop that. I did the same thing: get rid of the videos! But then it was said, yes, there's nothing we can do about it. Mosques said they might meet here, but please give us the young people, because then we can talk to them and we can change their minds. I've seen people travel up close, people close to me in my network, and how much that hurt the parents. That's the real pain. However, we must look at the issue of funding in a nuanced way and not throw it into a pile. We shouldn't always take a negative approach. We should not say that we are going to ban things, fundamental rights. We do all the countries together: unfree! No, there are also just funds in the world that do give money out of goodness. There are also those who want to have something to say. That's not always different than administrative. It's not always negative. It's not always bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	A lot of things get thrown into a pile. Which makes me a little tired... Yeah, I'll talk to a mosque driver, too. I'm also talking to directors of Jewish organizations. I'm even talking to Jehovah's witnesses' directors, which I find quite a bit of. Didn't we just learn that you shouldn't trivialize things, but put them out loud? This is precisely because, in this case, moderate Muslims are asking for support, precisely because they need counter forces to resist, so that they do not feel intimidated, so that they do not feel threatened, but rather protected by our democratic society. I just don't understand what you're trying to do here. Don't do what I think is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	What works counterproductively is the way many politicians talk about mosques with some kind of political bias. What those mosques say, when I speak to them, and I really come to 100 mosques a year is that they never look at the contribution they make. They say that we never look at the problems that we solve for society. From 2004 onwards, I will come to that later, when it comes to a mosque, it is really always about radicalisation and terrorism. The result is that we have had up to 500 incidents with mosques by now. Imagine that! The words the PVV leader Wilders says are painted on mosques. Pig heads are being laid down. We saw an occupation in Leiden. Those mosques say: be sharp when it comes to complying with the rules and help us, where possible, to professionalize. We're seeing good developments. If we can train imams here in the Netherlands, I say: very much! I'd love to! We'd like to. But it has to be possible. And then we shouldn't get frustrated. Look, the government can make a lot of demands on the one hand, but it doesn't help. We saw a study by Verwey-Jonker about Rotterdam this week. There the religious institutions do a lot of good work. This is where the municipalities use the connection of religious and civil society organisations, a school et cetera, to have a kind of safety net for young people to make them resilient and to ensure that they do not fall through the loopholes. So I'm not playing games; I think I'm just being nuanced. And where there are problems, you'll always find me by your side. I am one of the founders of the Helpline Radicalization for parents, because I saw those young people leave. That was a lot of young people with a Moroccan background. I hated that. Whole families went to hell. Those mothers called me on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mrs. Chicken. Mr. Azarkan, I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'm gonna finish this. Those mothers called me and said, Mr. Azarkan, I've just been to the police, but I can't press charges, because the police have no idea what to do. Then I'll talk about 2015. They said, "Yes, but my son is about to pay $1,000, take his passport and leave, but I want you to stop him. Throw him in prison, I'd rather he throw his life away there."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	Now it is Mrs. Chicken. I hope you can be a little more compact in the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	It saves speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	Okay, well, I hope that's how I see it. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	Pig heads hate everyone, at least most of the parties in this house. That's not what the discussion is about either. You do not need to repeat history here by saying what cultural background people have done good things with here. But if we cannot simply discuss in this House that there are forces going on that are violating democracy, which are going against our Constitution, because that would be too incriminating, then we are wrong about each other. There are parties here in this house that are going the extreme way. But if we can't talk about the twenty mosques out of the 500 that we have to worry about as ordinary, normal, moderate parties, then we're having the wrong discussion. Then I want to stay away from the discussion as to whether there are 12 or 13 or 20. So my very friendly appeal is: don't sit in the defense line; don't sit in the "people are pathetic" corner. Because that doesn't solve anything. We need to find the forces to mobilise people and help people like your uncle and moderate Muslims to provide that reply, where they often don't feel that possibility right now. Money flows can play a role in this, but there are so many more facets. That would be so much more service, I think, so it's actually more of a friendly call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you to my colleague for that call. I am always willing to look at the problem and come up with solutions. But part of the problem, I say to Mrs Kuik, is the way we speak in this house and in which we always respond to incidents. We're always magnifying it. That's what the report says. That's part of the report, including the RAND investigation. For example, it caused the response to be very low. Mr Van Ojik mentioned it. Looking at everything from a safety perspective is not the solution either. That's what I have in my speech. That's literally what the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Certainly not only on incidents, but we cannot deny that it is also clearly stated in the report 'Join' that it is not just an incident. I find fifteen to twenty highly salafistic movements, politically or even radically motivated, not an incident. That's a serious signal we need to deal with. That's what I read in the report. So I've read all the ifs and buts. I have read all the restrictions, but I have also read this serious appeal, from a committee which has been very broad and melancholy fed and which I think has been very carefully implemented. So let's not forget that either. Let us not put it under the guise of incidents, because that would not do the report justice, nor would it do justice to what is happening in our society in Salafist movements. Also in right-wing extremist movements, but that is not for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	Look, here I really disagree with Mrs. Chicken. I know that in the past the PvdA has tabled a motion to ban Salafism. While, if you look at the three movements and also at the sensible letter sent by Mr Lodewijk Asscher... If the political movement and the apolitical movement are entering the Constitution, that is perhaps something that is not very desirable, but the question is where it is punishable. I think it's a lot to go about banning part of a religion. I'm having trouble with the jihadist. I told you that, and I also indicated how that worked out. But if people want to live in their own way, don't want to shake my hand, I don't want to force them to do it, and I don't want to ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	On that point of response, as Mr Azarkan has just mentioned. I think it's a good thing he's asking for a nuanced approach, and I can also follow him when he says he might not always be there. But that's why I was so disappointed. On the basis of a motion adopted in this Chamber, we ask for an investigation to be carried out so that all these benevolent mosques are given the opportunity to say: that is how it stands with us and this is what we would like to avoid unwanted influence in our own mosque. Then 10% response comes from the Moroccan mosques, for example. That should at least surprise Mr. Azarkan from his nuanced story? Then why is there no cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	The answer is very simple: because they don't have that confidence, because those mosques are tired of always being thrown into the fucking corner, because it's always about incidents, because when there's an attack somewhere all those mosques and all those Muslims are asked to distance themselves, because they're only visited and questioned when things go wrong. I once had a conversation with former ambassador Van Dam in Indonesia. He had a very successful and good collaboration with the local Islamic community because he did so in a sustainable and binding way; he also taught it. As a municipality you should not only visit if you notice that there is radicalisation, even when the sun is shining you can visit sometime. So it's part of your society. So these mosques say: we don't always feel part of that society, we sometimes feel a little hunted. When I tell you that the Law Bibob will be applied to mosques from 2010... The first time I heard that in Tilburg, I thought: that's not what that law is for at all. Why is that? Then these mosques say, for example, because there is now a lot of negative publicity, we cannot ask a notary to help us and sometimes we cannot open a bank account. If there has been a broadcast of Nieuwsuur, a group of mosques will receive a letter with: we will reconsider the banking relationship. Then there will be a lawyer to help these mosques and that will only lead to more costs for the community. So my point is that we actually look at mosques in this house in a very wrong way. We need to see them as an integral part of our society, where they are our partners. If there are abuses there, you will also notice it more quickly and you will see that the response is much higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	With all due respect, it is of course very easy to say: there is no cooperation because mosques are being looked at very wrongly in this house. I try to listen very carefully to what Mr Azarkan says. I understand exactly that his speech is: in the vast majority of mosques, the problem we are discussing here today is experienced as well, and that is not where we want to influence outside in the sense of who pays, etc. et cetera et cetera. Well, I'm very happy about that, but then I don't understand why mosques at the same time would I expect Mr Azarkan to say a more firm position: if you ask for something, we won't participate, because you are looking at us in a very wrong way. I do not appeal to Mr Azar to the behaviour of the mosques, because then I cannot, and I do not want to, but I would ask him not to go too easily in the reasoning of: because you in the Lower House always talk so negatively about mosques, we do not have to cooperate in finding solutions to a common problem. Then I would say: let us call together on those hundreds of mosques who seem to be on the side of the vast majority of this Chamber when it comes to solving these problems. Then let us try to involve them in what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think that this is a justified appeal, see, the second argument there I came up with is that those mosques have said that there is double standards here. Why are only mosques investigated? They called it some kind of tribunal. Why are only Muslims questioned? There are other religious organizations, aren't there? That's what the investigation shows. The migrant church was mentioned. At the moment when people feel that there is a selective view, we find that difficult. We can see, of course, in proposals that the PVV only has to deal with those mosques. I sometimes even see the idea from a left-wing angle here "how can we get that Islamic education more into play?" That is a freedom that enjoys all special education. We find that difficult, and people feel it. So there are also quite a few Muslims who say that there are double standards. That's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Van Ojik, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	But let us not constantly hide behind the fact that there is a lot of misery in the world. It was about that earlier this morning. It's very easy to say every time, "Yes, but then you have to look at him." I know that so well, that kind of reasoning. When we criticize Israel, we hear: "Yes, but you must also criticise the Palestinians. And if you're criticizing the Palestinians... we'll never get anywhere like this. Mr Azarkan's argument is precisely that many Islamic communities are on the same side as this Chamber when it comes to concerns about what is happening to influence. Then let's not say, "Yes, but if you look at us, you also have to look at all those other things." Be glad, I would say, that the Chamber wants to tackle seriously this problem, which is evidently felt in many mosques. So there's something wrong with that reasoning, I have to say honestly. Either we say we have a common problem and we are going to try to tackle it together. Either we say, "You're selective shopping, you're not consistent, you're always islambashen, so we're out." But both can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	I think we can do both. I think you can criticize the approach, but you can also look at the problem. So I think we can do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	I would like to ask Mr Azarkan two brief check questions, whether I understand what his position is. He just gave the example of a Rotterdam mosque that said: we don't really want that money, we prefer our control with our own directors. Does he now recognize that if you do accept that money, then you lose a piece of control?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	No, not at all. No, you don't have to. The research results also say that money does not always mean that there is control over it. There are really funds that give that money from the goodness. That's part of Islam. They don't ask for anything in return. It is not on balance that there is always something to the contrary. I think I'm 1 minute 20 on the way. I have indicated that we have always indicated that we want transparency. On page 17, the FEC writes the same thing. It starts with transparency. We want to make it transparent; that is also what many mosque authorities want. Why? Because with that, you have to answer for that money, including to your own local community. Do you understand? So the idea that every donation means "I want something in return" is not so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	With all due respect, that wasn't my question either. My question was not whether, on balance, it is always the case that when money is donated, that also means that the person wants to determine. My question was whether Mr Azarkan also acknowledges the conclusion of the report that in a number of cases in the Netherlands it is the case that who pays determines. At least in the example he gave himself in Rotterdam. That's the first thing. Then my second check question. That's gonna save another interruption. Mr Azarkan said that there are other forms of influence, often via the Internet. Terrible videos. I've called many times in the past: take these videos off. But that's not possible, he said. Is he then prepared to join the VVD's plea to ensure that we monitor the Internet for Salafistic expressions and that these expressions can also be banned at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	If they're punishable, I'd rather today than tomorrow. The problem is that the recruitment that then happens around radicalisation is really the worst. If, therefore, these are videos that cross the borders of our democratic rule of law, then we must certainly ban them immediately. There are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr President, this is really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mrs. Becker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	This is really a circular reasoning. Mr Azarkan has just said: I have called in the past for videos to be taken off the Internet, but that could not be done. No, indeed, because the current Code of Criminal Law does not allow for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	Sorry, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	My proposal is: let's take a very close look at whether we have enough powers to remove this type of video. And then Mr Azarkan says: I will do so, provided that it is within the current law. I think we're in this house together because we could also change the law. So would Mr Azarkan like to join my plea? Is he willing to see if we can change the current law? To ensure that, according to the AIVD, we are also a very serious source of risk for young people, that we no longer want videos of this kind on the Internet? Is he willing to change the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	First of all, about the wrong assumption Mrs. Becker is making. She thinks she knows why those videos are not taken off, namely because it took place within the limits of the law. That's not true. It was just that there was no control over the provider. In the Netherlands we can't always, even though we see... we see that, can we? With child pornography, for example, it took a very long time for the Minister to succeed. It is a criminal offence and yet it is offered through providers, which is sometimes not something that can be done. That is also true in this case. In this case it was also really criminal, it was inflammatory. That's clear. So I don't want to ban all movies, but if they're demonstrably punishable, if they're banned again, if they're evil and endanger our children, you can ban it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	Good. I would ask you to continue your argument. I hope that the extensive debate on the interruption will lead to a slightly smaller number of pages that you are going to propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr President, I am going to do my best. I talked about the Essalam Mosque and the power of the local community. It was also the choice of the local community to do so. I'm in favour of that free choice, too. If there is any need for help, I think we can definitely do something about that. We can do that locally. I talked about the added value of mosques. I'll get to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this debate is essentially also about fundamental rights. It is also about the protection of minorities in the democratic legal order. I found a nice quote from 2004: "Fundamental rights find their natural boundaries where the rights of others are affected. Those are limits that are guarded by laws and by judges. They are not there to restrict citizens' rights but to safeguard them. When it comes to freedom and equality, the Constitution is not a command for assimilation or a straitjacket for uniformity, but a guarantee of diversity and pluralism. I find it bewildering to have to hear from the ranks of the PVV arguments for the abolition or abolition of fundamental rights. Whoever does that takes over the logic of the extremists and dictators. It is precisely them who believe that the problem of Western society lies in civil liberties." I see a number of colleagues watching. I would almost like to ask who this quote belongs to. The answer is: from André Rouvoet in 2004. Mr. Chairman. I would like to share with you the views of DENK on funding from abroad of religious organisations. First of all, we want the funding of religious organisations to be made transparent. As I said, that is in line with the views of the FEC, which also states on page 17. We don't think it's wise if that happens only for mosques. I'd say equal monks, equal hoods. It would be good if mosques could be paid by local religious communities. That would be really nice. The reality is that that is not always possible and that a number of organizations must then have someone within your network who suggests that they receive money from abroad. As far as we are concerned, that is permitted, provided there is no evidence of any influence on it. It is primarily up to the local community to express itself on this. In particular, if it moves within fundamental rights and within the law, I find it complicated to determine that from here. I read in the response of the cabinet that it also finds that complicated. Mr. Chairman. Do the local communities consider the administration to be an ally? Invest in that relationship and build professional drivers. That'll make us all better. That's where we're seeing quite a hit right now. I know that in my time, when I was chairman of the Moroccan Dutch Partnership, we offered a training for directors of mosques, civil society organisations and women's organisations. How do you read a financial statement? How do you make a strategic plan? How do you need to fill in your financial responsibility? Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group believes that there are at present sufficient instruments, as the cabinet actually describes, to address abuses. Give mosques the appreciation for their commitment to society. If there are problems with 15 mosques, there are 485 that do well. Just be nuanced in that, too. That doesn't mean you're denying the problems, but you're putting them in the right perspective. Bans and prohibitions aren't gonna do much good. Now engage in structural collaborations between religious organisations, formal organisations, schools, district teams, social work and municipalities. Because sometimes it seems as if there are only people living in the Netherlands who no longer believe, but I checked with the CBS this morning and we still have 8 million Christians and almost 1 million Muslims. They need support. They seek hope and direction in faith. A lot of effort is being made in Rotterdam. We saw a study by the Verwey-Jonker Institute commissioned by the municipality of Rotterdam, which indicated that there is an enormous amount of good informal care, support or mutual assistance offered to both members of the community and beyond. They play a crucial role in the social network with their activities and are the safety net of many Rotterdammers. They figured out what the market value would be if you had that done by professionals. For Rotterdam alone, you will get between 330 and 365 million. We can talk about that sometime. We are only talking about Rotterdam here. Mr. Chairman. My criticism is that, in many proposals from a number of political parties, there is a tendency to tackle the small problems with disproportionate measures and to do too little to deal with the real major social problems. We see that Mr Van Ojik also said it to the WTMO that is now being proposed. I do not know whether it is proportionate to ask 357.000 civil society organisations to do something because we see money flows at fifteen mosques. I don't know. I could figure that out. That is also the criticism of the Council of State. At this point we can really make another move, because the political bias towards mosques is really very great. I also understand that I'm being asked: Farid, why do you do that? And don't you defend yourself too much? You have no idea how that gets into people's homes. They say: isn't it unfair that if you criticize it, you will be thrown away in that way? People feel that problems are always discussed here and always in a negative sense. Anyway, I've made that point a few times. Mr. Chairman. If we experience fundamental rights of others as annoying in realising our idea of a good society, we run the risk of damaging fundamental rights in the long term because we are guilty of the same type of intolerance, not to say fundamentalism; something we say we want to fight on other fronts. The question then is whether anyone in the Netherlands can be themselves. Does Islam still have a future in this country? There are a lot of women, like my mother, who ask: can I still have a headscarf across the street in five years? Is it possible to open a mosque without obstruction? I know mosques that take 12 years. As soon as that becomes known, there will be organisations fighting against it. You immediately get headlines that talk about hate palaces and hate beards. I have no idea what those things are. But there is thus obstruction against such a mosque. You can see that local politicians give up and don't support such a mosque anymore, when the plan itself is good. Is it still conceivable, even towards the future, to start an Islamic school without suspicions? Many Muslims ask themselves the question: do my children as Muslims still have an equal position in this country? There are many questions in the Dutch living rooms. This is because people see that religious freedom in the Netherlands is under pressure. Little by little, the freedoms of Muslims are restricted and they are always based on their faith in the suspect bench. We are, of course, seeing a political and social climate that is increasingly hostile. That has only got worse since the PVV was founded. Mr. Chairman. We saw the discriminatory ban of the PvdA Minister Plasterk,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	May I interrupt you for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	...the burqa ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	On the previous point, Mrs Van Toorenburg...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	I was halfway through my sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yes, but it was still about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	I have Muslim friends who say very strongly to me: "If you don't know how to act against those wrong mosques, then I'm not going to vote for you anymore, because I'm worried about this. Do something! We almost no longer have the freedom to just be cozy with each other, to celebrate our celebrations, to pray whenever we want, because there is a group that takes over from us in the Netherlands and puts us against the wall with our backs." Does Mr. Azarkan have these friends, like me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	Sure, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	Then I'd like to know: what does he say? I'm saying I'm trying to fight for it. I say that I am going to try again today to separate the chaff from the wheat, but I hear almost nothing about it from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	In the past, Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have had very good contact. I invited her as a Member of Parliament. Then she said, "Do you want to see if you can't organize anything for us at the SMN, and what are your concerns?" I invited Mrs Van Toorenburg. We had really good contact. And the weird thing is, she's asking that question here. That's really weird. 'Cause I'm pretty transparent. I indicated the challenges of the Islamic community; I see her nodding. So if there are any abuses, then you have to go hard on them. That's what I've always been for. So when people come to me and say "something happens in a mosque," I myself see if I can even do something personally. So I'm not saying I'm going to debate it in the House of Representatives. I say you can always call me, and then I want to talk to you about that. What I am trying to say is that the way in which the debate was conducted, and you also contributed to it in the previous debate, Mrs Van Toorenburg, on which you sometimes talk and the way in which we had the debate last time, has helped to make a lot of Muslims feel really ill treated. That's just the work you do. There are also people who have come to me who say: can you ask Mrs Van Toorenburg if she treats us a little more fairly, whether she will grant us a right to petition, even if that is not possible in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	Then Mr. Azarkan cut that part of me out of that video. That is possible, because I have literally said that I am very much in favour of petitions. I have even mentioned a number of examples. But I have indeed been very angry with Mr Azarkan. I'm not even gonna think about it, or I'm gonna be again. But what I was concerned with was that Mr Azarkan would say to me now that I could always have a drink with him to talk about wrongdoing. I do not need to have a nice drink with Mr Azarkan to argue wrongdoings; that is what we are here today in the Chamber for. So I would like Mr Azarkan to say what he thinks we should do about these abuses in the 100 minutes he has entered into this debate with. He has rightly said a number of things, and I share his opinion on them. We must do much more to protect mothers who call the bell and say: my child is going wrong; he will be gone. We failed in that. I'm sorry about that, too. But there are many more things. Today we are talking about a number of mosques that are funded from non-free countries, allowing them to inject poison into all our vulnerable children. What are we gonna do about that today? That's what the debate is about. So can we just cut to the chase?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	This is as the RAND research pointed out a complex issue. It's a really complex issue. Of course, it is not for nothing that we have been talking about this for perhaps ten years. There have already been motions in the Chamber to ban things. It's complicated. We're dealing with constitutional freedoms. The story is very complex. I would also like to see us solve all the problems for all Dutch people in one go. The practice is it doesn't work that way. There are no easy solutions to this issue. So if you say 'I have an easy solution', I would like to answer right now: what are the solutions you have in mind, which take into account fundamental rights, which solve the problem and which are proportionate, predictable and effective? The only thing I hear then is that they say: what the cabinet is proposing does not go far enough. That's easy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	This is something special, isn't it? Mrs Van Toorenburg asked DENK: what are the concrete solutions of DENK to deal with these abuses? Then DENK asks Mrs Van Toorenburg: what are Mrs Van Toorenburg's solutions? I am confident that she will soon come up with a number of solutions in her contribution. I just have the following question: can Mr Azarkan mention three, or perhaps two, concrete proposals that are not aimed at resilience, combating racism and all kinds of other things that we also consider important, but which are about tackling the abuses? Two measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	I've mentioned five or six of them. Mrs. Becker isn't listening at all. I told you about wrongdoing, you have to make it transparent first. Transparency is the first step. We have always voted in favour of investigations and motions indicating that religious institutions should be transparent about funds they have. That's what it starts with. That's the first step. I have indicated that the second step is to look with local administrators and religious communities at how you can help them to combat possible abuses. You can't get rid of that all at once with a pencil stroke. I have even given an example of how I have been active in this. I don't have the luxury Mrs. Becker has. I think she's been in politics her whole life. I've really been up close about what it's like when a good friend loses a child in Syria. I've been there. Every time a child slips because of that radicalisation, it's just terrible. That's really horrible. Here's what I'll tell you. At some point we even had a discussion about privacy. It was about data and so on. Do you know what that mother said to me? She said, "Mr. Azarkan, I don't care about all that privacy. I just want my son to stay here. He may also be stopped." He had nowhere to go! Mrs Becker, I am therefore dealing with the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	I hear Mr Azarkan saying that the solution of DENK is transparency. We must then help the communities if this transparency shows that something bad is going on. I'm listening to that. But what about his questions about Minister Dekker's bill? Minister Dekker is now regulating this transparency in a legislative proposal, because we do not have any legal basis for it at the moment. Then Mr Azarkan says: yes, but I do not think that is proportionate. If your proposal is to achieve transparency and you do not support the cabinet's proposal, where is your own proposal to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'll tell you. If you had read the report and the file correctly, you would have read that the religious institutions together were almost ready to sign a covenant. It says in this covenant that they make public all the money they get, so their funding. I see Mrs. Bente Becker walking away angry again. What happened in the end? The covenant would only apply to mosques. I haven't been there. A number of domes of mosques have said: "We find this selective and not okay. We need to make it transparent, but that does not apply to others." Eventually, that failed, but I think it's the right way. Maybe you should try to get those parties back to the table. In the end, I learned the following about how it works with policy. You can impose things. You have a stick and you have a carrot. But in the end, a conversation really helps. You put the mosques around the table and say: these are the problems that have been identified. I'm not talking about the criminal part. Where criminal cases are done, you just have to act hard. I am talking about the part of which you said in the newspaper: it is not forbidden, but I find it undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	Finalizing, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yeah, that's a tricky theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr Azarkan says: "I want to achieve transparency. I want this to happen on a voluntary basis with a covenant." As an example, I call alFirah. AlFirah did not want to give openness to the House of Representatives, without the intervention of the judge. Does Mr Azarcan really believe that alFirah would sign such a covenant to give access to all funding flows in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	If there are problems in cooperation with organisations, you often see that it is said: that the industry itself must solve; that is to be solved within the environment where it occurs. I think Mrs Becker doesn't quite see the power of such a covenant, that you can then force together with a group of mosques. I don't know the case of alFirah from oat to rot, but I think there were some things there. Former mayor Jan van Zanen already had a number of problems and he also discussed them there. So this is a very specific case. If you ask me if AlFirah had delivered everything and if AlFirah had properly deposited everything, then I must tell you that I do not know. I heard the annual financial report was oral. Yeah, you know, I've never seen anyone do that before. So I thought that was a novelty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr President, concluding. Then I note that Mr Azarkan says here: we also want a tough approach from DENK where things go wrong. But when we ask for action in concrete terms, it is really only voluntary agreements. If you seriously say you want to stand up for the freedom of the Muslim communities that are burdened by the rotten apples in between, then you really must be prepared to deal with those rotten apples with some harder things than volunteering, even if it is not criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	But within the democratic rule of law! If you do, you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr. Azarkan wants a covenant. Do you think, Mr. Azarkan, that all religious institutions should participate in the covenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	It's possible. Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	So what is the difference with the law that the cabinet is now presenting? The beauty of the solution through this law is, of course, that it applies not only to mosques but to all organisations, and that it is indeed the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	I will come back to what is the problem. I attach quite a lot of importance to the Council of State's opinions, and that makes them a mess. That may be my wrong interpretation, but I am prepared to put my arguments on the table here. I see Mr Koolmees nodding and he thinks it is a wrong interpretation. I'm sure he's gonna straighten it out and explain to me that it's very sensible. If Mr Dekker says "no, wait, the Council of State has said so, but it has been misinterpreted and sister and such" then... I have also seen a bill passed by which the Council of State chopped up and on which the colleague who took the initiative to that law then said: "No, they see it all wrong. I'm gonna back that up a little bit." It could be. I might as well say afterwards, "That's a good idea. Let's go 357.000 civil society organisations..." You see it, don't you? Standing the meeting I get an adjustment!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	The Minister says the proposal has been modified. Perhaps it is also a good idea to bring that back to the debate later. I look hopefully in the direction of Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr President, I have a great deal of sympathy for many things that Mr Azarkan says, but I do understand the feeling of several people here. Those people rightly say: "But Mr. Azarkan, take the example of alFirah. They didn't file any documents until after the judge's intervention. Do you really think they're gonna work on a covenant?'. Then Mr Azarkan says 'yes, I do not know'. Next, I ask what he actually has against the law, and then he refers to the Council of State, which has just been adapted to meet the criticism of the Council of State. A whole new law has been filed! On your desk, Mr. Azarkan, is such a pile of pieces of paper in between and you ask for 100 minutes of speaking time. So I have the feeling that you've been looking at this tremendously, but if you get a difficult question, you'll be calling for ignorance. I find that complicated and therefore again the question: what is the content of the law that the cabinet did not originally submit to the Council of State, but submitted after it has been adapted to the criticism of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	I come to that later in my speech, but it may well be that I thank Mr Paternotte between all these dossiers that he indicates how much there is indeed some outdated information. If that means that there is good motivation, that it is not disproportionate and that it does not cost a lot of organisations, then I will agree. I think that's fine. I assume that he is going to support this in his own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	Can you continue your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	I want to, but I get questions all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	In doing so, I implicitly call on your colleagues to give you ample space to take a lot of steps in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yeah, I'm almost through. I see a number of colleagues looking relieved right away, Mr President! I had arrived at PvdA Minister Plasterk's burka ban. This is typically one of those examples that people have said: that is really Muslim bashens. That's a very small group of 100 to 250 people actually just bullying. If we look now, a year after the introduction of that law, we see that four people have received a warning. That is the only effect of that law, at least as far as enforcement is concerned. And that's also true, because when you talk to legal scholars about that, they say: this law is never going to stand if we have this checked at the ECHR. There is therefore no fine. Mr. Chairman. We saw that the ban on the unsed halal and kosher slaughter in this Chamber was supported by PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks, but fortunately that ban did not reach the Upper Chamber. We also saw Halsema's coordinated attack at the Islamic school in Amsterdam: political bias again. I have had these debates here and it is astonishing that a colleague of Mrs Becker said at that time that all these teachers should no longer be allowed to work for life. Then a colleague, Mr. Van Meenen, said: on the basis of this incident, do you advocate a kind of professional ban? That's impossible, isn't it? That's not state law, is it? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes we take very big steps in this Chamber with little evidence and we shout great things. There have been 48 trials conducted by that school and 45 of them have been won. There are also legal scholars who say: the government is abusing its powers, its power. We saw that in the supplemental affair, too. But lucky for you! This is a democratic legal order. But, yeah, that judge and that council of state keep whistling back. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the Wet Bibob, which is just being applied to mosques. I saw it in Zaandam when I was visiting there, in Enschede, in Tilburg and in Maastricht. But I also spoke to a lawyer who occasionally assists mosques, saying, "What I see at mosques is really incredible." After such a News hour broadcast, often followed by a debate, the closure of financial services and the opening of an account are refused. They ask for transparency, but if we ask for payment via Tikkie or through Mollie, we can't get it closed anymore, so we're going to pick it up again, but that's even harder to prove. Notaries don't want to cooperate. Taking out an insurance policy for a mosque is often a disaster. In fact, they always come out with the same person, who charges a lot of compensation for that. Unnecessary legal costs. Treasures by controlling public authorities: the fire department and municipal enforcement are often on the doorstep; the environmental inspection. What does the environmental inspection have to do at a mosque, you might say. Well, so did that lawyer. It was kind of a misunderstanding, wasn't it? The Food and War Authority also comes along from time to time. One point of criticism is also that, within the three-track policy contained in that approach, it is almost always going straight to rail 3. The first two steps... it's always going to disrupt very quickly. That's why entrepreneurs and suppliers don't want to do business. The maintenance of such a mosque cannot take place, because contractors say: we are not coming. So you're gonna have to put some kind of architect in there. It then contracts the contractor, with the result that more costs for the community. Mr. Chairman. The focus on the Islamic organisations and the laws that sometimes seem to be appropriate to them have a wrong effect in practice. The result is, once again, that costs increase. That is also because when we talk about mosques in this house, we often link them to radicalisation, terrorism and so on. It's almost always about those kinds of topics. I don't know if there's ever been a procedure under the Bibob Law at another religious institution. Mr. Chairman. We must also name it here: there is an obsessive hostility to Islam in the Chamber, but also outside it, in society. As a result, many citizens feel like second-class citizens; so they say. We must fight that, even if that means that I am here on my own occasionally in the debate. I have often asked for a debate on a mosque that has been damaged again or arson. I rarely get support. A 30-member debate at most. That debate hasn't happened either. Mr. Chairman. DENK was the only political party in the Lower House to vote against the motion. Why? Because it was specifically about mosques. We foresee that if you do so in this way, the result is that people say: yes, you see, again this group is in the dock. We can see that now. We're in some kind of weird vicious circle. We saw as a political party how damaging this tribunal is to the position of Muslims and the relations in society. It is of course wheat on the mill of the PVV. This must therefore be a joyful day, on which a long-cherished wish is more and more fulfilled. Mr. Chairman. It is also good to look at how we have ended up with the ban on funding here. It was the PVV who said in 2013: there will be no new mosques; we want to stop foreign funding and Islamic organisations must surrender their anbistatus. And now, eight years later, it seems to be getting closer. You often see the PVV calling and other parties following. We saw in that spirit that in 2015 a large majority, on the initiative of the CDA, the VVD and SP, had voted in favour of a ban on foreign mosques financing. That was before we did an investigation. We still don't know how big the problem is, but then we really knew a lot less. That's what I mean by very selective laws applied to mosques. Why? I remember when Pieter Heerma and Sadet Karabulut called on the cabinet to come up with proposals to stop that funding. But, of course, that's complicated. That is why we are in this debate today, four years later. This is also about fundamental fundamental rights. We want to deal with the problem. That's where you'll find me by your side. But we also have to see that this does not help us to treat all these mosques in general again and to put them all at a distance again. Think of the way it's talked about in general. Kees van der Staaij spoke of "import of hatred" and there has been talk of "international jihadism," as if that is always the case and as if that is always one-on-one. I saw that Mrs Becker and Gert-Jan Segers even want to restrict fundamental rights. I had heard that in the interruptive debate and I have read it again. I expected a little more from the Christian Union. At the VVD we saw that the draft electoral programme was a hollowing out of the democratic rule of law. A number of people voted against it and fortunately that has also been adapted to the VVD. The VVD didn't want you to go to the ECHR anymore. That party says, "You have to be able to put that out of operation from time to time." They will be pleased in Hungary that you can simply set aside the Court in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Azarkan just said that what the PVV started with all leads to laws against mosques. I was just wondering what laws are specifically directed against mosques, according to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	No, we have a law for a burqa ban. It is not just about laws against mosques; it is mainly about laws that Muslims perceive as unjust. We've got the burqa ban. That's what I've been talking about. It's extraordinary that we're making a law here for 250 people and that it's coming through the Chamber here. We're talking about unsedated halal slaughter, that for Muslims... This concerns 0.3% of the number of animals slaughtered and affects fundamental freedoms. The result is that that bill was killed in the First Chamber. That's three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	I think that's two of them. You mentioned the burqa ban, also known as the partial ban on facial clothing, because it is not just about burqas. And you mentioned the ritual slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	Yeah, but we've had a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	Yeah, but you're putting a bunch of people in a victim role right now, when I'm wondering if that's necessary. After all, it is just as much about kosher slaughter. These are Jewish and Islamic organisations that worked together to stop that law, in the end with success. They are not laws that in any way directly target Muslims in the Netherlands and there are no laws specifically against mosques. You speak from concerns that I understand very well. But when you speak here, try not to contribute to that image of being put in the corner, which the PVV does indeed contribute very often, but which you should not contribute to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	I'm not contributing to that, but I'm just pulling the line from the past. I see we have a European country where Islam laws are. That's in Austria. I see there are countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	Not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	No, that's not here. I agree. We have to watch each other for that. That's why I'm standing here so we can guard that. But of such a burqa ban, you can say what did you call it? This is partly facial covered clothing. I've really never... We all know that it's not about people walking through society with a helmet. That wasn't the point at all. We saw at some point in the Algemeen Dagblad that the lead editor indicated how you could make a civilian arrest of a woman with a burqa. That wasn't about someone wearing a helmet. We found that disgusting at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	We all thought that was disgusting. The cabinet has also said that this is nonsense. But what I called that law, that's just the name of the law: partial ban on facial covering clothing. That's the name of the law; that's not something I think of. It's not targeted...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	No, I didn't. The committee is also called 'interrogation influence foreign religious institutions', but it should have just said'mosques'. There should have just been "Islamic," "Muslims," "Mosques." That's actually what it's limited to. I think that's a little euphemistic. You make up a name because otherwise it indicates too much what it really is and because it may be discriminatory. Of course it's not called the burqa ban, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	I would like to appeal to Mr Azarkan anyway, because that is simply not true. It is also a question of long-distance nationalism from Turkey; it is called 'the long arm of Ankara'. Examples are also cited. The work of Diyanet from the Turkish government, the Turkish weekend schools. How does he feel about that? He's been standing here for about an hour, but he hasn't said a word about it so far. This is an integral part of the Unwanted Effect Report from non-free countries. It goes so far that the Turkish president says to Turks in the Netherlands: you have to go on holiday to Turkey in the summer so that you get to know your homeland. That they should have more children, so they're stronger as a community. That he sets up weekend schools here and runs a number of campaigns. This is described in detail, also in the report. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	That's a fair question. I have an opinion on that, too. I read in the report what the cabinet thinks of that. The cabinet says: it is allowed to engage in diaspora politics, provided that there is no compulsion, no urge; if borders are crossed, then we will use the usual means, diplomacy and so on, to appeal to the Turkish Dutch. That is sensible language, so I join your colleagues in the cabinet. I agree with what Mr Koolmees has said about this. I think that is a sensible line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	This is just not the whole story. I'm not asking for nothing what you think. You say, "I join the cabinet." The cabinet has said a lot more about it. The Cabinet has also investigated this. Maybe you could tell me if that's okay with you. Above all, we know that Turkey's influence also leads to groups coming up against each other here, that there are reports in mosques such as in Almere that the Turks should be targeting gülenists in the Netherlands. Perhaps you can give an opinion on this, because that is also unwanted influence from an unfree country, which causes problems in the Netherlands for a lot of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	I am against any influence that falls outside of what the cabinet has indicated. If that's a crime, if that's coercion, then I'm just against it. The cabinet writes sensible things about that in its approach, and I think we should do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	Really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	I am pleased to see that you are in any case in complete agreement with the approach proposed by the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	Sometimes it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	It began with the fact that you did not agree with Minister Dekker's law in this respect with regard to the Council of State, but I now understand that you are entirely in agreement with that. That seems to me to be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr Paternotte is now bringing two things together very quickly. I didn't quite understand the latter: whether I agree with that law. I have indicated that I would like to expect an explanation from the Minister. If I have an outdated piece, which could well be between a few hundred documents, then I will change my opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	The document that is at the heart of today's debate is the report by the committee that has carried out research into unwanted influence from non-free countries. Some colleagues have already tried to do so. In the meantime, Mr. Azarkan may have reached about half of his story. I cannot entirely estimate that, because there have been quite a few interruptions. What I hear mostly is not a reflection on: how can we, together with the Muslim communities that are the victims, of unwanted influence from unfree countries be a front against that unwanted influence? How can we prevent young people attracted by jihadist ideas from travelling? So far I have heard a litany about the unjust or selective treatment of Muslims. I would like to ask Mr Azarkan whether that focus on those non-free countries, which have unwanted influence from non-free countries, is also mentioned in his story, so that together we have the idea that as a Chamber we are broad, united for a good cause, namely to give young people a good future in the Netherlands, in order to be able to bear it. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	I once tabled a motion saying that Islam and Muslims are an integral part of this society and Mr Bishop's party voted against it. I never understood why he didn't see Muslims and Islam as part of society in 2020, so I'm a little surprised when he says he's going to stand up for Muslims. I also read the SGP Islam Manifesto. I'm not getting it right out of there either. So I'm just looking at how I got this friend, standing up for Muslims. Perhaps Wopke Hoekstra would say: I have an unexpected friend by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	Perhaps Mr Azarkan can stop using the standard trick. A specific question is asked, and then a few things are added. Why don't you answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	I notice that Mr Bishop raises his voice. I will try to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr President, I object to this. Mr Azarkan, of course, speaks in the highest gear and in the highest tone. Then I try to make it clear that Mr Azarkan would simply have to make a relevant contribution to this debate on this subject, that he would have the opportunity to do so, that he would be invited, sincerely, by several colleagues, and then he would lose himself again in all kinds of circular movements. Please, Mr. Azarkan, make that contribution and answer this question. How do we get to hear from the DENK side? Perhaps you know that target group best, in its full width, how we, as a Chamber, can best operate in it? We need the input of DENK on this file. So I ask again: is that still in your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u120	Sure will be. I will come back later to talk about unfree countries. I like that, too. So that's exactly what's gonna happen. But, of course, I am also talking about my own text, Mr President. I will consider asking Mr Bishop the question in advance next time if he wants to watch, but he is, like me, in a small group, so it is rather spicy to add that. I come to the question you asked. When it comes to a ban on financing mosques from abroad, we have in the past indicated that we simply think that this is a bad idea. That is, again, because it puts everything away in one go. It's just not sensible for a number of organizations that don't ask for anything in return. It confines itself to what we define as the free countries. I'll get to that definition in a minute. By the way, we tabled a motion in 2016 on a ban on foreign funding of political parties. Then we saw that the VVD, the CDA, the SGP and the PVV voted against. He wasn't hired. Mr. Chairman. DENK is opposed to radical ideas, radicalisation, entering our country through foreign money. That needs to be addressed, but it is important that we stick to the facts, that we look very closely at how we do that and that we do not get bogged down in assumptions or beliefs. When we look at these facts, we see that RAND Europe, commissioned by the WODC in 2015, conducted a study on the possibility of research into foreign funding of Islamic institutions. The conclusion was therefore that it is so complicated that an analysis of public and judicial sources cannot lead to a reliable estimate. Mr Van Ojik said it already of how big the problem is. Is it as big as it was when those tests came out? Because there too, I see changes. My image and that of the people I hear is that fewer organizations are applying for money. With the help of a historical overview of the board membership of the Chamber of Commerce's trade register, RAND Europe could only demonstrate the ability of foreign financiers to exercise influence. Another study was carried out in 2020. The results were then that two mosques indicated that they had received funding from abroad. That was the response. Both boards claim not to have received any money for the purpose of exerting influence. The conclusion in RAND's report is that there is rarely structural foreign funding at churches and mosques. It's occasional. No evidence was found to link conditions of beliefs to foreign funding for mosques. That was RAND's conclusion. The document states that on the basis of public sources it was suspected that there was foreign influence at a migrant church, after which interviewed staff from some municipalities said they were worried about that church. In the cases contained therein, no relationship has been established between the degree of rigour of belief and foreign influence. Only a few examples of unwanted influence have been found, at least in that report, and these events do not appear to be related to foreign financing or to a request for it. You could conclude from this that a limited amount of foreign funding exists in various religious institutions, both churches and mosques, and that there is hardly any foreign influence. Mr. Chairman. The fact that there is financial support from abroad makes sense in itself. In general, churches and mosques with foreign funding for financial deficits or needs for support in the Netherlands have little opportunity to get their plans funded. So they can't go there. The institutions' own funds are often also limited. The foundation of the community of faith was low and is still low, but it is getting better. Hopefully, there'll be a moment when it won't be necessary at all. Of course, there are many organizations. When we look at the churches, we see that the Protestant churches often have a very good network. It's not necessary there either. Islamic institutions are partly still under construction. There is funding from abroad through charities or a zakat fund, as it is called. A zakat fund has also been set up in the Netherlands. I think that's a very nice development. That is a zakat fund of a number of young people who have said: we are going to see if we can just organise it in the Netherlands and we want to pay charities with it. It could be churches or mosques. Anyone can request that, by the way. They want to bring together the people who want to make a voluntary contribution. They have now raised €300,000. Such a zakat fund does not always have to have a negative effect. Mr. Chairman. I see that part of the Chamber wants to use the ban on foreign funding of mosques as a kind of axe. When I look at the committee's investigation, I think that's a limited investigation. Three cases have been cited. What does that say about the other mosques? Doesn't it take place there? Are these the specific cases that have been selected? For a lot of people this was already known. The Essalam case was already known anyway and you read about alFirah in the newspaper every now and then. The question is whether this is generalizable. Should we not have helped these three mosques in a different way than could we have dealt with criminal law if that were at stake? So the question is: what are the conclusions worth, as far as conclusions have been drawn? Of course, the committee did not do that, but it did write down facts. My question is: where have existing opportunities failed at the moment? I just heard Mrs Becker say: there must be more. Actually, she didn't say so much that there should be more, for example in the task force, where there should be more capacity and more people... But whether that also leads to more regulation? I don't know if that's the answer. We sometimes tend to want to solve things with supplementary legislation, while I hear from Arno Visser, the President of the General Court of Auditors, who uses existing legislation far too little. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is critical of the Transparency Act for civil society organisations. However, I have had an interrupting debate with Mr Paternotte on this subject, so I may even be based on the wrong opinion, at least, I do not know if there has been an additional opinion. Maybe it was an adjustment without additional advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u121	Perhaps just to clarify: it is standard that the Council of State gives advice on a bill and then makes adjustments to a bill to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u122	But then ask for advice again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u123	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u124	No. Then let me base myself on the advice of the Council of State. It indicates that financial support to civil society organisations from non-free countries should not in itself always be suspicious and that the specific characteristics of the financier and the risk that host organisation could pose to the democratic rule of law may be different. In an unfree country, of course, there can also be a financier, who does have different views than the rest of the country or the leader of the country. The measures proposed in the legislative proposal and in the request for information are vulnerable from the point of view of proportionality, effectiveness and fundamental and human rights. The Section would point out that, of course, the requirements of treaties to restrict freedom of association, freedom of education and the right to property also require very good guarantees. The Council of State considers the proposals on the free movement of capital to be problematic, so I have to look at what the cabinet has changed. Eventually, it is about 357,000 institutions. Let's see... Mrs. Kuik is not about giving minutes to colleagues. That's not how democracy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u125	We'll forgive you for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u126	Oh, you forgive me. Excuse me, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u127	I'll talk more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u128	What Mrs. Chicken says doesn't get into the Acts unless I say it here now. Let's see... I can skip a part. Yeah, I see you looking happy. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go through it a little faster. I'm just getting to the term "anti-integrative." Problematic behaviour, anti-integrative, non-democratic; I think that is a difficult term. It is a subjective term that is also constantly subject to change. I often see him come back when it comes to problematic behavior seen at a mosque, in education. Then that term comes back: anti-integrative. I would like to quote Dr Tamar de Waal, who wrote an interesting dissertation on this subject in 2017. I think she was a guest at D66 the other day. She describes how the integration requirements in the Netherlands are increasingly assuming that people with a migration background should continue to earn their citizenship. The unclear definition of public policy integration is often abused in order to promote social perceptions and standards and, in fact, to maintain social inequality. Citizens without a migration background are always part of society, while citizens with a migration background are never socially free from having to prove that they are sufficiently integrated to be worthy of citizenship. Let me give you an example. If there are incidents in the Schilderswijk, it is often said "integration has failed" or "integration is not satisfactory." But when that night after night happens in Urk or Duindorp, that problem is never categorized in that way. So you're actually saying to one group, if there's an incident there, that's because you're not integrated. They must constantly demonstrate that they have earned citizenship. Sinan Çankaya is a researcher, also promoted, and has worked for a long time in the police department.It also says: by constantly adjusting the definition of integration, you always invent a new hoop that the newcomer has to jump through. Mr. Chairman. I think the term 'unfree countries' is a very problematic term. I heard it once in this house from Mr Gert-Jan Segers. I asked Mrs Becker in one of our interrupting debates: what is an unfree country? Then she said: the cabinet should come up with it; I don't know. What does that term even say? Of course, it's from that report from Freedom House, paid for by the U.S. government. I just turned that in. They have a president who can be proven to throw in 14,000 tweets, doesn't acknowledge the outcome of a democratic election and says it's stolen, and sets up sympathizers. It is a democracy where its own president is targeting sympathizers against other politicians. In addition, five people are killed. At the moment, all kinds of plans are also circulating to kill democrats in particular by 20 January. It's in all kinds of forums. I think that in unfree countries they can still suck on that. Mr. Chairman. It is a term that suggests that all financial support coming from those countries is actually suspicious. We say: money comes from it, but it is an unfree country, and with that everything that comes from it is suspicious. So you cannot properly assess and assess the specific characteristics of the funder and the risk of the receiving organisation. The question is: is this always the case, and is it also a threat to the democratic rule of law? Therefore, a general rule simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u129	I just want to make sure I understand. I shall try to follow Mr Azarkan's reasoning. There's a list of unfree countries. It's written by Freedom House. Freedom House is located in the United States. There's a president making a mess of it. And so there are perhaps countries that are considered unfree by Freedom House, of which Mr Azarkan says: they are not so unfree...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u130	That's right, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u131	Or perhaps more specifically on the subject of today's debate: we are actually debating five countries today, I say by heart, which are identified in the report as unfree, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. That's them. That's what we're talking about today, isn't it? Are there countries in which Mr Azarkan says: well, they are not actually unfree? Then I know a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u132	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u133	It's not in the quantity of the story, but it's a bit in the way sometimes that I don't quite understand what Mr. Azarkan is trying to say with his remarks about, for example, the American President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u134	That is what the ranking and the way in which these countries are placed in it are going to change. It states that Hungary and Poland are free countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u135	My question was not about Hungary. I wanted to try to stick to the subject of today's debate. The report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry mentions five countries in particular: Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. We are talking about these countries and about funding coming from those countries and going to an x-number of institutions in the Netherlands. Now my simple question is whether there is a country on that list which, in Mr Azarkan's view, is wrongly regarded as unfree. Then I'd rather he just say that. Then we'll know. If that is not the case, we can simply continue the debate on how to curb this funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u136	I simply have difficulty categorizing countries as free or unfree countries. I'm having trouble with that. I think it's a big deal for the United States to decide when other countries are free. Mr Van Ojik, I find it hypocritical that the United States calls these countries "unfree." One calls a leader "a strong leader," the other says that it is a kind of dictator. There are a number of countries, such as Saudi Arabia. Then we find these countries unfree and we do not want them to have anything to say here at our mosques, but we sell them for EUR 130 billion in arms. Do you think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr Azarkan is well aware of this, because if there is a need in this Chamber to oppose arms supplies to Saudi Arabia, GroenLinks is always there. But that's not the issue at all. It is not at all a question of whether the United States considers Turkey to be an unfree country. I ask Mr Azarkan what he thinks. I ask this because he himself casts doubt on the list on which the parliamentary interrogation committee bases itself. That's the very simple reason: he causes doubt. So I ask whether on that list of five there is a country which, in Mr Azarkan's view, I am not talking about the United States, Mr Azarkan is wrongly regarded as an unfree country. I don't think so. I think that all five flag countries deserve the predicate "unfree"; all five of them. I think so, but I ask Mr Azarkan what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u138	I can't really determine that. I think it's interesting. When I ask my neighbor Anita, she says: "Turkey is a very free country. That's where I went for corona three times a year. I'm a guest there. I'll book a $50 ticket and I can do whatever I want there. For me, it's a very free country." I find that difficult. So the problem I have is the definition: what suggests "a free country"? That is why I asked that question last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u139	A third response has been given. That may not be the answer to what you're asking. I will give you one last opportunity, but I am starting to worry about the end of this debate. I would remind Members that we live in corona time and that we are supposed to be ready before 11 p.m. or perhaps even sooner. Keeping asking questions while the cabinet hasn't even spoken doesn't help. So, rounding off, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr President, I share your concern. I shall therefore reply very briefly to the question of what an unfree country is. A country that throws journalists in jail, throws parliamentarians in jail, throws political opponents in jail, so, for example, a country like Turkey, is an unfree country. That is, by definition, an unfree country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u141	I find it really too complicated to divide countries into free and unfree. I really think that is a very western view of society. That is also evident from the report. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mrs Van der Graaf also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u143	I listened with interest to Mr Azarkan. It turned out that the Turkish government had a major influence on this. The Turkish Consul General called on Turkish organisations to go there. The Diyanet Mosques played a major role. Bus transport was arranged for free and people came from all over the country to Almelo, so threatening for that Armenian community. I know that the DENK Group often finds it complicated to say something critical about Turkey. But if we speak in the light of this debate, what does Mr Azarkan think? Could you just reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Azarkan wants to make it very clear here today that, if there are any problems, Mr Azarkan also wants to acknowledge them and that he himself is willing to intervene in them and make contact with those mosques. Then I would like to put something to Mr Azarkan. It's an incident from 2014. That was a little longer ago, but a lot of people can remember it on a daily basis. There was a demonstration in Almelo at the monument remembering a genocide in Armenia. Thousands of Turks had come to fight against that monument, with the aim that that monument should actually be removed. There were people in Ottoman uniforms and a lot of provocative statements were made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u146	If I understand correctly, Mrs Van der Graaf asks me if I find anything of what happened in 2014. Your question is, how do I feel about what happened then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u147	What Mr Azarkan thinks... We are having a debate today about unwanted influence from abroad, from non-free countries, the committee has called Turkey "in our society," because it has an impact and can be disruptive. I ask Mr Azarkan just to reflect on this. How does he feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u148	Look, when I look at the story that Mr Van der Graaf tells, it's just not good that communities are facing each other. I don't like that. That's what we've always said. We believe that people should be able to peacefully be themselves, to adhere to their own faith, to do their own cultural expressions and to demonstrate if they want to. If that's disturbed, of course, it's just not right. If that's a criminal offence, but it's not up to me, then that has to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u149	It is good to hear Mr Azarkan say: I do not like that. When these kinds of incidents occur, in which the Turkish government can be proven to have an undesirable effect on Dutch society, with incredibly negative consequences, is Mr Azarkan and his DENK group prepared to reject this critically and condemn it critically? Is the DENK Group prepared to do the same when it comes to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u150	I'm really gonna get into this. When the coup in 2016 was in July we saw that there really were people opposite each other. I know that my colleague Kuzu made the call: "Guys, respect each other. Don't go smashing each other in the brains. Give each other space and make sure it doesn't escalate. Don't hurt each other, so give each other room." My colleague Kuzu has always done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u151	I understand that it is difficult for Mr Azarkan to be very critical of Turkey. You can bring the question of whether Turkey is an unfree country back to the point: I know a lot of people who go on holiday. But it's also the other way around. Since last year, Turkey has been among the top five countries that supply most people with refugee status in the Netherlands. You say: I do not know whether Turkey is an unfree country. Do you think that those thousands of people who get asylum status in the Netherlands because of political persecution get that status wrongly? Or can a free country, in your opinion, prosecute thousands of people for their opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u152	It's never good for people to be prosecuted for their opinions. However, I would point out to Mr Paternotte that this cabinet, together with all the European partners in fact, has asked Erdogan to receive 4 million refugees, because refugees were seen as the greatest threat to domestic politics. That's what's bothering me too. There are certainly elements of Turkey that I find difficult, but I find it difficult to divide them into free and unfree. You can do that a little easier. If you start immediately with "you cannot criticize Turkey": there are indeed people within our party who criticize Turkey; there are different opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u153	The very last question on this, because this has now been adequately exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u154	I asked a very simple question and I am sure Mr Azarkan answered a question but not the one I asked. Do you think it is wrong that thousands of gülenists and Kurds come here from Turkey and get asylum because they are politically persecuted? Or do you think it is perfectly logical that a free country pursues thousands of people politically and that they should flee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u155	I do not think that countries should prosecute their own inhabitants, certainly not based on their beliefs and certainly not if they are political. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u156	I hope that Mr Azarkan will finish his speech, but I still see a big pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u157	Yeah, I'm kind of watching, Mr. Chairman, because we obviously have a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u158	There's been a lot of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u159	I see that you very much want me to go to an end, and I see that Mrs Van Toorenburg wants me to. Maybe it's okay to suspend for two minutes. Then I'm going to reschedule so that I'll be ready in five to ten minutes. Is that okay, colleagues? I have 33 minutes left; that's the alternative, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u160	I propose that we suspend for two minutes and that Mr Azarkan should use that time to really look at what he has not said and then tell us very succinctly after those two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u161	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on undesirable influence from non-free countries. Mr Azarkan continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna take a sip of water first. I am also pleased to be able to inform colleagues that I have finished six or seven minutes with my pack. It's also a nice gesture, if I may put it that way. I would just like to touch briefly on the effects it has, particularly when it comes to discrimination, because I see that this is increasing to an enormous extent. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau points out that discrimination rates against Muslims are more than twice as high as average. In particular, it concerns research carried out by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights over 15 Member States. It is also good to see how this is experienced in other countries. Then it turns out that the Netherlands really is at the top when it comes to discrimination against Muslims. It's about women being offended because they wear headscarfs, to death threats from mosque drivers. The problem is widespread. Those who felt discriminated against indicated in the FRA study that this happened on average at least five times a year. It's a recurring experience. The same study shows that almost one in three Muslim respondents says they are discriminated against in the search for work. We have also seen 67% of temporary employment agencies discriminate when asked how 92% of the brokers say: "If you want me not to rent your property to a Moroccan, Turkish, Antillean Dutchman, then I will." There is really not enough work to be done about this. The latest SCP study on experienced discrimination last December indicates that 55% of Dutch Muslims regularly experience discrimination. That's really shocking. For comparison: experienced discrimination among Christians is 21% and among non-believers 25%. It is most often done in the form of negative treatment or unequal treatment. Muslims also experience more discrimination in other areas, such as education, job search and the workplace. And online is no less than nine out of ten cases of religious discrimination aimed at Islam, according to the latest figures of the Internet Discrimination Contact Point. A total of 192 out of 279 anti-discrimination cases were related to religious discrimination, representing 69%. In addition to incidents of hostile treatment of Muslims such as those included in police registration, ADVs also received many reports of controversial treatment based on religion. Mr. Chairman. Eight out of ten Muslim respondents who reported a physical attack to the police were dissatisfied, while only 13% said they were satisfied with the way the police handled their case. We also generally saw that out of the 512 cases of discrimination that have been notified for about four years, one has actually been awarded by its own police organisation. This discontent about police intervention is more widespread. Of the 70 mosques that participated in a study by the University of Amsterdam and the Knowledge Institute Forum in 2014, 48 experienced severe aggression in the last four years. For this debate, I had taken stock of all the incidents over the last 20 years. That's really frightening. I would really like to call on colleagues to have a debate on what are the underlying causes, why people feel called upon to throw in a window at a mosque. We saw it at the Urdumoskee, we saw it in Zaanstad alone last December three times. It's really a couple hundred times. I cannot escape the impression that if that happened to a church, a synagogue or a temple, we would pay a little more attention to that. I call on my fellow Members to take a real look at these root causes, which we should really be working on in the report and in the cabinet response. This is one that has a fundamental impact. These incidents are often about cloaking, arson or a fake bomb. Of course, we also had an attack in Enschede. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following, because it does not make much sense to report all these incidents and colleagues are also looking for space. I think it's important to address those issues that are really effective where there are problems. If we're gonna do wrong, we're gonna have to do it like hell. We will keep an eye on each other that we do so within the democratic rule of law. In new reports about mosques or Muslims, let us not shoot into the automatic reflex to generalize all that again. We should not criminalize groups of people, because that is not enough for those Dutch people, but also for their buildings. What we need are workable solutions where we stand side by side for the rights of people who are also Dutch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mrs Kuiken, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. The chair is cleaned first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna be a little shorter. Mr. Chairman. Democracy, Constitution, the rule of law; they are about the most important pillars of our Dutch country. The fact that the rule of law and democracy are not self-evident is something we constantly see around us, whether we are looking at the Capitol or the province house of Groningen; Lodewijk Asscher also mentioned it in his farewell video this morning. That is why it is so important that when processes arise, whether from foreign influence or from domestic influence, we discuss them, examine them and look very critically at them. That is why I am grateful to the committee for the work it has done and for having looked very critically at something that often comes up in the Lower House, but which may not always be well substantiated or investigated. It is incredibly valuable that the committee has taken the trouble to do so. I would also like to thank them for that, first of all the President Rog who has left. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of hard work to be done. My first comment is that there is still a lack of good quantitative and qualitative research on these kinds of influences and what is and is not really going on. We often see that in a lot of trends. My first question to the cabinet would therefore be: how do we guarantee that we will monitor and monitor what is now going to happen in the coming period? An interrogation or an indication is not yet "exactly knowing." And yes, the WODC has done research, the AIVD is doing research and there are also reports from 2011 on the Muslim Brotherhood, but they are often incidental investigations and not multiannual or long-term trend studies. I think that's extremely important, especially when it comes to influence. I do think that the signals that the committee has received from the people who have been heard are sufficient to show that we should be concerned. 500 mosques are mentioned, but there are still 15 to 20 organisations that have serious concerns and doubts. This is confirmed both by the community itself and by speakers such as Mr Schoof. I think that alone should be enough reason to take it very seriously and look at it very critically. Money from abroad doesn't have to be a problem in itself, but if that money is about which money you can't control then what influence it purchases, then we do have a problem. We also have a problem if there is no alternative available. The cabinet has said: a ban on this goes too far for us. But this is a concern, so I think it is right that the cabinet should be very explicit about this. Why not? Then what is it? What options are open? Two concerns the point that is also explicitly made by the committee, namely that the digital world is increasingly the physical world. There is no border around the Netherlands, but there is also no border when it comes to the digital world. Most influence is now mainly via the Internet. My question to Minister Koolmees, but also to the Minister of Security and Justice, is: how do we keep a grip on the digital world? In the past, I have argued for a digital ban on territory in relation to certain preachers who are radical, who are against criminal law and who have also been banned from the territory. We have a problem with that, but at the same time we do not know how to deal with them criminally, when we all agree that what they are doing is undesirable. My first question, also considering the expiry of the bans in the physical world, is: how do we deal with them? What digital possibilities do we see? And should we not, when it comes to preaching hate, look again at the instrument of a digital ban? I tabled a motion on this matter a few years ago, along with the VVD. I didn't get my way, but I still think this is a subject that we should look seriously at. Three concerns a general neighbourhood approach. We see that young people in particular now have a major influence on the radicalisation process within the community of faith or within the mosques. We need to get a look at who these young people are. What makes them choose this path? In what way do we get in touch with these mostly boys but unfortunately, so we have to observe, also girls? Of course, this requires an integrated approach. I am explicitly looking at Minister Koolmees. How does he intend to implement this? Four concerns the schools. Maybe that's my most important question for the moment. In 2015, then Minister Asscher completed a bill in 2014 it was submitted and adopted in 2015 to allow supervision of boarding houses and youth residences among other things. Once again, the argument was that it would be counter-constitutional and too difficult: we should not do that, because it goes too far. But it did come because we eventually came to the understanding that it was necessary. I think that is also necessary when it comes to informal weekend education. If we know that the children in informal education are taught structurally and often in many hours that they are not actually part of this democracy, that men and women are not equal, that homosexuality is not normal, that one is subordinate to the other and that one may run counter to democracy, we know there are many examples of this why should we let that happen? Why don't we want to protect these kids? Why do we allow that in our free society? To be honest, I find the arguments put forward by the cabinet rather weak: complicated and unconstitutional. Ammehula, what is happening in those informal schools, is unconstitutional, it is against our free society and it is undemocratic. If we see that the whole of society is under tension, it should be our first priority. Mrs Bente Becker and I tabled a motion in a previous debate on the terrorist attack in France. We pulled it over back then. The cabinet responded by letter of 10 December, but I am not convinced. We still believe that something should be done and that risk-based controls and monitoring should be carried out in order to really get control of this. Because we do that all the time: we signal things and at the same time we are too late to actually intervene. It's about kids now; there's another chance. I really want to call on the cabinet to do something about that. Finally, Mr President. I may be running a little out of time, but that may be because of my somewhat inadequate preparation. I asked a question about finance and imam training. I know that this is very difficult to enforce, but I still think it is a shame that, in cooperation, this has not yet been achieved. I think that point should remain on the agenda. My last question is about influence. We also see this influence in Somali circles, in diaspora funds that play a role, and in the Jehovah community. So let us also look more broadly at what is now being given more attention and where more attention has been paid to the committee. We know more flows from abroad that really have an undesirable impact on our democracy, our Constitution and our rule of law. It is in all our interests to be able to reverse that tide. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bishop, who will speak on behalf of the Reformed Party. He's gonna have to take a few meters, so that's gonna work out in terms of cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u166	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the good care, so that here is a clean desk again; that does not happen to me personally very often. Mr. Chairman. What's it about? Unwanted influence from unfree countries. Then we can put up smokescreens to question the question: what are non-free countries? That is what colleagues have done, and the report also contains what is meant by that. Then you can also discuss the question: what is unwanted influence? But that's the problem. That's the problem we need to talk about here. It's a problem that reminded me of the Hydra of Lerna from Greek mythology. That is a creature that is half snake and half dragon, with nine heads, whimsical, toxic, inexhaustible it seemed. But it didn't end well, thank God. I'll tell you like a cliff hanger for the lock. Mr. Chairman. Together with the SP, we made a proposal in 2019 to hold an interrogation as a Chamber about that unwanted influence from non-free countries. The result is a solid report, certainly in terms of content. I would like to join with colleagues in their appreciation of the committee members, who have spent many hours doing difficult interviews and have finally delivered a thorough piece of work. Mr. Chairman. The Committee concludes that there is an undesirable influence and that this influence can have far-reaching consequences for the Islamic communities in the Netherlands and for Dutch society as a whole. That also draws a bit of this report. That is why I believe it is important to work together with well-loved Islamic groups as much as possible. This is the basis for this, because it is both about protecting the Islamic communities and about protecting Dutch society. The report needs to wake us up. It is absurd what is happening in our country at this moment in time. The SGP believes that the naivety over the dark sides of Islam should stop, and especially this poisonous dragon of undermining and unwanted influence. I would like to go into some of the tentacles of this monster in more detail in my contribution. First of all, the flow of funding, through which Islamic institutions receive support from abroad. It's undesirable, finds the SGP. A generic ban on funding flows from non-free countries is proving difficult, but it is being examined how money flows can be shut down or forfeited when "problems of conduct threaten public order." One question to one of the ministers: how is the cabinet going to stop these practices? In any case, these funding flows must be made impossible. Then the salafism, another tentacle of that multi-headed monster. Salafism spreads through all sorts of channels and then wins ground The treacherous thing is: this strict-Islamic current is constantly under the radar. Do not openly say or do things that go beyond the rule of law, but go beyond the rule of law in chambers, promoting hatred and extremism: that is what is also seen and reported to the committee from the AIVD. There are even indications that this façade policy, as it is called, leads to a parallel society in some places. The SGP believes that Salafist organisations should be tackled firmly and that this Islamic movement should be combated in the root. My question to the Minister is: what possibilities does the cabinet see for more active criminal enforcement of these matters, is something being done about them and how can we use information from the security services to do so? Then the diaspora policy. It's been mentioned a few times. Turkey's long grasping arm. From Ankara, people who originally come from Turkey are still seen as puppets of the Turkish government. Some other countries also have a hand with this. The SGP is concerned about its bad impact on our society, especially as it could disrupt our society in the long term. Then there is youth and informal education. In an interrupting debate with Mrs Becker, I have already gone into that in order to specify how you can have some control over it, without interfering in privacy. Because, unfortunately, young people and children are susceptible to this message of hatred and anti-democratic ideas. Social media and informal mosque education also play a central role here. Even in child care, Salafists get their feet on the ground. This can lead to radicalisation and extremism among children and young people. Eventually, they can become jihad warriors. A recent letter of inquiry shows that the cabinet remains anxiously absent from monitoring informal training. I get that. But even the freedom of uncosted education is not unlimited. The SGP therefore believes that targeted monitoring should be carried out to prevent this Islamic education from becoming a breeding ground for radicalisation. I would like to talk about the form and manner in which this should be done, and whether this should necessarily be in the form of supervision. I would also like to hear the Minister's reflection on this. Why has this cabinet been so hesitant for years, while Article 23 of the Constitution explicitly provides scope for public order supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u167	I think it is very good that Mr Bishop, I think, rightly points out that there are also limits to the freedom of informal education, although that freedom is, of course, greater than that of regular education. You had a brief debate on this with Mrs Becker earlier. I've been in catechisation myself before. Here's what I'm wondering. You say it's about monitoring Islamic informal education. Could it also be non-Islamic informal education linked to another religion, ideology or perhaps to a state?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u168	I can imagine situations in which that would be necessary or desirable, but I would not like to say yes to it unbiasedly. In my opinion, there must always be a reason for this. If there are no signs that the rule of law is being undermined, democratic values are being set aside, and so on, then I think that as a government I would choose to be extremely reluctant. Because you'll soon be in private life. That is why I asked for an interruption: what happens if it happens in the domestic situation with the same thoughts? It's very slippery ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u169	Sure. That is certainly the case when something has the character of a school in many ways. If people sit together for several hours a week on the basis of certain lessons and ideas, I think there is a clear distinction between the home situation. I understand that Mr Bishop says: "I think it is good that risk-oriented consideration is given to the possibility of anti-integrative, constitutionally destructive education that goes against democratic principles. It is good to have an opportunity and a title to supervise it"? If that is the case, then I think we could take a nice step together in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u170	This is also one of the considerations linked to this report. I think you should take a serious look at that. A democratic legal order is not self-evident. That is a fragile and fragile whole. That's what you have to stand for. If you see that there are threats to society as we have set them up, then you have to think carefully about how to operate with surgical precision, so not so much generic.................................................................................................................................................................. I'm just trying to take it in friendly images. Although, of course, surgery is never such an attractive image. Mr President, then transparency and powers. The question is, how can we make this monster a cup smaller? The SGP lacks a sense of urgency in the cabinet. The letter contains many considerations, but also many ifs and buts. Unfortunately, even after this revealing report, firm measures remain out, while naivety and looking away are not in place here. That's the worst thing we can do. Something really needs to be done on a number of points. For example, the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing suffers from a lack of powers and capacity problems. We can therefore invest in this and these powers can also be regulated. The Financial Expertise Centre faces all kinds of obstacles. Municipalities do not have sufficient opportunities to combat unwanted influence from non-free countries. A specific question to the cabinet: what is the government going to do in practice on all these issues? I would like a more comprehensive response, including information on what is still in the pipeline before the elections. I ask that because there must be a follow-up after that. Finally, Mr President. How did it end with Lerna's multifaceted monster? Well, the hero Heracles took it up with a club against the beast, but every time he crushed one of those heads, two new ones came in place. You all know your classics of course! I'll tell the familiar story. But finally, Heracles, along with his help, managed to kill the monster by scorching the neck with a glowing torch every time he knocked off a head. As a result, no new cups could grow. The monster of radical Islam is what we are talking about here in the Netherlands is to be effectively and effectively combated. We therefore call on the Minister to make real haste here and now and to do what is needed now, in the short term, and also with a view to the next cabinet, which will have to put this issue at the top of the list of priorities. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you for your input. There is another interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u172	A quick question. Mr Bishop says: that radical islam, he has other words for it; you have to go hard on it; you have to burn it up. The non-radical Islam and the Muslims who are not radical, are they an integral part of our society? Do they fit here and can they just visit their mosques? Are they part of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u173	We live in a democratic rule of law and that rule of law guarantees that space for Muslims. As long as the rule of law is so, we accept it. That's their place, that's their position. If you ask me personally what I would like most, I would like all people to know about Christian doctrine and go to catechisation. Fortunately, Mr Paternotte has had positive experiences with this. I wish people would recognize the Christian faith, but the Bible also says that you cannot enforce it by sword and violence. It's gonna take other powers. But within that democratic rule of law, these mosques have space. You will also see this in our vote on motions, if you have already analysed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u174	Something about that problematic and unwanted behavior. It is very often about the relationship between men and women and the position of homosexuals. Now Mr Bishop's party does not excel very much in that area. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u175	I'm sorry, but this is what I've been counting about for the 21st time that Mr Azarkan is taking on things that have nothing to do with the subject as such. It's about unwanted influence from unfree countries. Then, as a SGP, I do not feel called upon to respond at this time. I'd like to talk to you about it, but first let's have some coffee. I find it strange to start, in this context, undesirable influence from non-free countries with clear definitions, on the SGP and the position of women. If I did that, my wife's gonna kick my ass tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr Bishop should not dive like that, because Mr Bishop also indicates that this undesirable behaviour, that problematic behaviour, for example, takes place in the values we give people. It would go against our rule of law or whatever. So it is really about the views that I was just talking about. Now there is the fact that Mr Bishop's foreman has signed that Nashville declaration, the anti-gay statement. There are 35 men on the list, because the SGP considers that the right to vote for women is rather problematic. I was wondering how that relates to this. Isn't that to some extent...? "Problematics" I hear colleague Chicken say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u177	I could only make a reference to my previous answer, because here something is involved in this issue in the same way that is completely separate from it. Mr Azarkan is well aware that the SGP operates within the limits of the rule of law. Within the limits of the rule of law, DENK may pursue its ideals, the SGP may pursue its ideals. Of course, I am always prepared to discuss this with him, but not in the context of a discussion on radical Islam. I cast that position far, far from me. Nor do I think it is purely a matter of raising this issue in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u178	Last point from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u179	It is very interesting that he says about the actions of his own party: as long as that is within the democratic rule of law, it is okay. Now we are talking about what Mr Becker said: that is actually a grey area. Maybe we should take a look at that. I find that complicated and I want it very well defined. But now I understand that Mr Bishop goes much further and says: as long as those people do things within the democratic rule of law, that's okay. Does that also apply to imams, as far as you're concerned? Can they all do so as long as they are within the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u180	That depends on what Mr Azarkan means by 'within the democratic rule of law'. Look, at the moment when they reject democratic values, which we regard as important within our democratic rule of law for the establishment of our society, they no longer move within the democratic rule of law. At a time when there is derogatory talk about the values of the democratic rule of law, about the power of the Dutch Constitution, about the authority of the police, when there is derogatory talk about the position of the judiciary, you move outside the framework of the democratic rule of law. Then you can be imam ten times or whatever other predecessor, but still you are out of order, outside of your own social and political order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mrs. Chicken, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u182	I thought they weren't ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u183	No, but I'm a little done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u184	We know the report and I do not take it away from it, but at the same time even Mr Azarkan is a bit right when he says here: it is not just about what is actually not okay, but also about those grey areas. These are also matters which are contrary to our free society or to the Constitution. My question is: if it is not Islamicly oriented, but strictly Christian or Orthodox, and it goes against the limits of our morality or our Constitution, then we can also agree with it. Then that's not okay, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u185	I would like to be very careful about the boundaries of morality in relation to a government. But when it comes to the playing field in which anyone in the Netherlands has to move and the rules to which you have to adhere, even though you have very different ideals: as far as I am concerned, that should not be discussed. That is the democratic rule of law as we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u186	Fine, but that would mean that it doesn't matter what religious or ideological origins have. Does Mr Bishop agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u187	As long as that is not contrary... If you rely on our democratic institution, it is justified, as long as it is not contrary to the order of society as governed by our laws and regulations and the Constitution, surely. But that does not mean that someone or that a club can have ideals, which do not fit directly into the existing order, but who do try to change that within that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u188	Now the Constitution has just been amended, at least in Lower House at first reading. It's still to be done in the First Chamber. That's also about non-discrimination based on sexual orientation. If that law were passed, would the signing of the Nashville Declaration still be within the limits of criminal law or within the limits of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u189	Then we have a point on which I do not really want to talk in this context. But what is the point of the Nashville Declaration? I would ask you to at least read it without the frame attached to it. The Nashville Declaration is essentially an explanation of the uniqueness of classical marriage, the unique bond between man and woman. All sorts of things flow from that. One of these parts has been enlarged and has attracted a lot of publicity. I think that if that Constitutional article is accepted, there will still be room for us, at least at this point in time, to continue to argue for the uniqueness of the Biblical standard marriage: a lifelong commitment between one man and one woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u190	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u191	That's what radical imams do. They then give a very loving sermon, have one radical view and they say: you should actually look at my whole sermon, not just at that radical element. In fact, this would condone the SGP for one of the MPs signing the Nashville Declaration. It may be a little faint that I am standing here, but I have also addressed Mr Azarkan. If you want to talk about influence, radical views and extreme thought, you should also look at yourself. That is why I felt it necessary to address Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u192	Sure. I'm always willing to do that, though I'm the moment what... But I understand the considerations. In this case, I would also like to ask colleagues: take a closer look at that statement; take off the framed glasses and read it again. I thought the wordings were a little too vague on certain points; that is precisely why I did not sign that declaration, because I was asked to do the same. But the essence of that statement is the position of classical marriage. Let's just leave it at that. Maybe that way the colleagues can look at it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u193	Good. You have given your last answer to this last interruption. We still have two, no three speakers on the side of the Chamber; I am too optimistic again. The next speaker was Mr Paternotte, who spoke on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u194	I hope you're still a little excited, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u195	Yeah, I was really excited about the debate. I still do, but I hope that you will show a little less repetition of moves. Anyway, I'm gonna say that completely neutral. Mr. Paternotte, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would also like to thank the members of the parliamentary interrogation committee and their support for their important work. I myself was allowed to sit in that room across the street once or twice for a few weeks. It is a serious task, in which you, as a Member of Parliament, go into the depth of a subject in a very short space of time, where the thought formation in this Chamber also needs that depth. Let me thank and praise the committee, which I believe is also known as Michel Rog's electoral corps. They also did so in circumstances where there were threats and very difficult interrogations. The work is important, because protection of freedom matters. We live in a time when you don't have to look with a flashlight for clues that freedom isn't self-evident, whether it's extreme right-wing groups storming the parliament of our ally, an attack on a synagogue by far-right here right across the border in Germany or the most powerful country in the world that builds a goelagarchip in its own backyard and intimidates its diaspora and free countries around the world to say nothing negative about China. Or think of a Turkish president who aims to make Europeans of Turkish origin loyal to himself. Think of the terrible attacks on freedom last year in Austria and France, where radicalisation has led several times to terrifying attacks on European society and its way of life. You'd say this is something that this Chamber should be able to unite. However, earlier today we were able to hear again in Mr De Graaf's contribution how easy it is to use a subject to tackle an enemy image, to turn it harder, to place groups opposite each other and to pretend that a million Dutch people are not right. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u197	My question is whether Mr Paternotte takes himself seriously with this remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u198	Yes. I could also ask the question back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u199	Fine. Then I will. I'm gonna go out for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u200	Mr. Chairman. I shall start with this, and specifically with Mr De Graaf, because I would just like to point out once again the difference. The Netherlands has freedom of faith and if there is something to be proud of, then that is it. As a country we were born because a foreign ruler here did not allow that freedom. Thus, we could become a nation of Protestants, Catholics and later Jews, and later Muslims and Hindus and many others. In the meantime, by far the largest group of Dutch people is made up of unbelievers. Let's be proud of that freedom. For decades, the Netherlands was the largest Islamic country in the world. I sometimes wonder if Geert Wilders thinks of that, when he says he wants to go back to the Netherlands of old. It is of all times that there are fanatics, extremes who can rely on an ultraorthodox explanation of a religion or ideology. Extremistic ideas that allow themselves to be steered by foolish dogmas and false ideas. Groups that put themselves above society and seek solutions in chaos, violence and pain. You see it in all religions and just as well outside all religions. Groups that don't fit in with our society and aren't welcome. Over the past two years, extremism has inspired the decapitation of Samuel Paty, the murder in Vienna, the terrorist attack on a mosque in Auckland, the attempt at a mosque in Norway and the attack on a synagogue in Halle. As far as we are concerned today, we are talking about combating extremism, sparked from unfree countries. That's why when we're talking mosques, we're not talking 500 mosques, we're talking 20, 25, 30 that are problematic. It is good that the cabinet also appointed it directly in its response. I would ask the cabinet once again to underline the fact that this number is small and that we should keep it that way. After all, the excellent report had the downside that many Muslims were wondering: is this about me? We want to strengthen that majority. We want to make it more resilient. We want to keep it on our side. That is why I would also like to ask the cabinet to underline that we want to involve mosques and communities such as the OJCM, which, of course, the report is not about, in strengthening that reasonableness. Mr. Chairman. The main question of the Committee of Inquiry as to whether undesirable influence is taking place from non-free countries was answered in full with "yes." I will mention five aspects, along which we see that we should do something about them, in addition to many good things that have been said. I would like to start with something which has nothing to do with Islam, but which is also mentioned extensively in the report: Diyanet, the Turkish "Presidium for Religious Affairs" and the infrastructure in Europe that is described, the Turkish weekend schools. It is also called the long arm of Ankara. I have two questions about this, because the report shows so clearly how this is in the capillaries across Europe. President Erdogan's speech has made it clear that he sees Turkish Europeans as his own, and we see this coming back all over Europe. It is therefore a strategy aimed at Europe. The question is: is there a Europe-wide answer to this? Is the Foreign Minister in contact with European colleagues about Turkey's influence? And if there is a Europe-wide answer, what is the answer? Secondly, transparency. In the interviews again shocking examples of what happens at some mosque schools: the lesson about apostates who deserve the death penalty, men and women, who are not equal and therefore should not shake hands and in the case of alFirah many other examples that colleagues Becker and Kikik talked about. The warnings of the AIVD have been mentioned. Wide lives in this Chamber the question: is it so logical that we keep intensive supervision in regular education because it concerns children and that after the day school closes this supervision stops and there is really nothing when the school bell goes for the evening school or the weekend school? Margalith Kleijwegt wrote in the book Alles is familie over de Turkish boarding schools in Amsterdam. The young people at these boarding schools often perform the best of their class because they immediately get to work on homework in the evening, because the school actually continues. They also deliver very pious Muslims; Calvinist Muslims as Kleijwegt called them. I've been to boarding schools like this before. I was always warmly welcomed and I was impressed by the organizational power. The core is that it is an environment in which education continues. It's also in the report: four to fourteen hours a week. Fourteen hours a week is more than half the time that children normally spend in school. Is it desirable that all this should happen without having a title to supervise it at all? Even the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights says: countries, now create a formal framework for informal education. There has been a reconnaissance of informal education, and the OCW ministers wrote a letter full of objections to the request in the Chicken/Becker motion. Among other things, it is said that you should also supervise the scouting, the craft club and the sports club. But, of course, that's not the point. Look at some mosque schools. In the interrogation very clear examples came along. Look at some Bible schools just as well, because we know there are places where conversion therapy is promoted. I would also like to call that without any difficulty problematic behavior. And look at weekend schools, supported by the Turkish state, although they don't seem to get off the ground very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u201	Of course, as a Chamber, we have been looking for what we can do best for a long time, but isn't it true that we are also at very high risk when we monitor it and then put a sort of stamp "okay" on it? Then perhaps more people think: I should actually send my child there, I might be short of my child if I don't send it there and unfortunately I can't resist my neighbor who's actually rushing me to send my child to that school? Isn't there a very big risk in that formal supervisory framework and shouldn't we look much where it goes wrong or it's not just child abuse, those conversion therapies and that exorcism? You don't have to supervise that to make sure it's okay. That's just assault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u202	We have, of course, the Minister responsible for youth protection here, but the tricky thing seems to me that when it comes to problematic behavior, for which there is no title at all for a criminal measure or, in this case, for a youth protection measure to apply, it is not formally child abuse. I wonder if that would be a satisfactory answer. You say something about the risk of supervision. I honestly don't know what the big risk is. I was just saying that I was at a bible club myself, coincidence because I was going out with boyfriends. I thought: is it would be bad if once in a while that would probably not happen there, someone would come by, see what the teaching materials are and have a conversation about what the whole idea is there, so that you have a title to at least know what's going on there, if there are reasons for it based on signals, risk-oriented. I don't see what could go wrong. Rather, I think that the experience with the boarding schools and also the law we have in the meantime taught us that we can do just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u203	No. If a Boy Scout Club has a leader, an akela, I don't know what it's called every day the children show all the corners of the Chamber, we don't say: we can't perform, because we don't have a title to watch the Boy Scouting? Of course I do. That's just assault and then we just act. That's child abuse. So I don't understand why we're sticking to the fact that there has to be a formal framework and supervision, and that we might even have to supervise Bible schools, as if that's where the great evil suddenly comes from. We have here very clearly a number of informal frameworks in which children are set up purely against our Dutch society. The AIVD already warned in 2014, 2015, 2018 and 2019 for this dramatic course. Then we have to say to each other: stop with the whole story of supervision and take it from the point of view of child abuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u204	If it is child abuse, then you can deal with it. I've also been on scouting myself, but I have a better experience than Mrs Van Toorenburg just... Didn't suggest, let's be clear. If there's child abuse, if children are beaten, you can deal with it. That's right. We are talking now, in this debate, which is also what we, as integration spokesmen, often talk about about these particular terms 'anti-legal', 'anti-integrative' and 'anti-democratic'. You can of course say in the Netherlands that democracy is bad. It's okay. That's part of that freedom, too. You can indeed say to children: you are born in the Netherlands, but you are a national of Turkey and by the way, homosexuality is not normal, you should not think that you should be and think about a conversation to find out if you do not have a different orientation and how you can get straight. It's not necessarily all criminal, but I think it's very problematic. That's why I want the shutters in those places to be locked when we have signals that it's better to open them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u205	Finally, Mr President. It is a good thing that Mr Paternotte mentions that example, because I have always said, even when I was allowed to look at education, that when children are told that they are not good, that they should not be who they are, that they are a form of child abuse. Even then, we should not say: it is freedom of education. No, it's child abuse! If they're going to tell a child at an informal boarding school that he can't be part of this Dutch society, that everything he's told at school isn't true and that glorifying violence is even pushing him down the throat, then we're destroying children, then we're not developing children. That is why, perhaps precisely because of that, the WHO said in 1999 that we should not look so strictly at child abuse as just blowing or emotional neglect, it is also not a child that is preparing for a future. And if we take that seriously for once, we'll have a way of looking at these draconian excrements right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u206	I am very much in agreement with what Mrs Van Toorenburg has just said. I see she shares the same quest. Perhaps we could ask this Minister whether, in his view, child abuse is indeed what you just described. As far as I know, it's not right now. I don't know if you need to find a solution in that, but let's agree that I'm going to take a look at the 1999 WHO report. At that time I was 15 and doing other things; I admit that honestly. Then we can see if we can find each other in the course of this debate. No, I wasn't in the scouting back then. I don't think the ministers want to hear the rest of my résumé today. I shall now move on, also in the interests of these three ministers. Of course, in the future there could be a scouting department or craft club that teaches against the freedoms of democratic society. That's possible, but as far as I know, that's not the issue. Therefore, the request for supervision was also risk-oriented. I would like to ask the Ministers the following. The objections suggest by listing that it is doubtful whether risk-oriented supervision of informal education serves a legitimate purpose and is proportionate and subsidiary. If we see warnings over and over again, we get messages from the services and we read the interrogation committee's report, with all these examples, what are we going to do? Would the cabinet be willing to investigate whether such a law on informal education is possible? This would provide a formal framework for limited risk-based supervision of education, including visitation and understanding of teaching methods and content. Would the Ministers perhaps look at the experience of other countries with this same phenomenon? Mr. Chairman. Another point on transparency is the donations we already know. When Minister Koenders made the deal with Kuwait, we knew it was worth EUR 10 million in donations. Later, agreements were also made with other countries. Only, on that list, there were no individual donations, private donations from the rich, and there are quite a lot of them in the oil states. They weren't in there. The question is: do we not only have the tip of the iceberg in sight? I have the following question to the Foreign Minister. I know that shortly before the corona crisis broke out, he made another journey through Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, also to reconfirm the commitments made on transparency. Since the first agreements with Kuwait, has anything been done to get individual donations from the Middle East to institutions in the Netherlands in sight? And will the Minister also include this in the bilateral agreements we have now, to see if we can get a better understanding of them through that bilateral route? Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to go to the European Union. I think that it is in the nature of my party to deal with this, because this issue is, of course, not just here but in many free countries. Political and Salafist groups are widely branched in the European Union, with many breeding grounds for fundamentalism and radicalisation. The headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in Ireland is also a European issue. A maximum effort on a European solution is therefore obvious. Many of the objections raised by the cabinet in the search for a ban on foreign financing were precisely in the human rights safeguards resulting from our membership of the European Union and the Council of Europe. In addition, the definition of an unfree country has proved to be a stumbling block for targeted action. However, the question is whether non-European funding of religious institutions is desirable at all. Because foreign influence of society is considered undesirable, the United States, for example, has a total ban on political gifts from outside the US. The Netherlands strives for something similar, but for the EU. The cabinet is inspired by the German example, where three months before the election day it is no longer possible for extra-European politicians to campaign in their country. So why are we not focusing on a European ban on non-European funding of religious institutions? This fits in with the principle that is dominant in most European countries, namely that faith communities finance themselves, that the priest, the minister or the rabbi is paid by the believers themselves. This is a clear task for the Foreign Minister. Is he prepared to build a European leading group to tackle funding from European countries? And more specifically, is he prepared to examine the possibility of introducing a European ban on non-European funding of religious institutions? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make one final point. A recurring discussion is the advent of what we call an easy term "hate preachers." These prayer ministers are being flown in. Their arrival is already a fuss, because we know on the basis of social media or previous experiences that they come to keep an untolerant and often homophobic, misogynous or even inflammatory story. Those foreign prayer servants do so either with an employment permit or with a work visa. Can these permits and visas be tightened in duration and conditions, for example by taking a test on the blazing of the preacher in question? I would like to put that question to the Minister for Legal Affairs. Mr. Chairman. In that context, I come up with hateful social media content. We talk a lot about buildings. The interrogation committee, of course, focused to a large extent on cases surrounding the mosques. But by now, online content is perhaps much more important and achieves that many more people and also many more young people. Think for example of a YouTube hit as Minute for Allah, who has 100,000 viewers and with which you probably reach more young people soon than with all mosque schools combined. In fact, I wonder whether we know where funding for this kind of promotion of all conservative ideas, which may also fit in with the definitions of 'anti-integrative' and 'anti-democratic', comes from. Do we know where this funding comes from? Do we even know that? I'd like to ask that question. I would also like to ask whether this is not something we want to involve in the whole mission of making foreign funding transparent, if this type of funding comes from abroad. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It is good that we can have this debate in freedom. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you. Then we're ready for the next speaker. That will be Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA. She waits for the chair to be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been almost 14 years since I made my maiden speech here in this room. It was about the WRR report Identification with the Netherlands. There were already very serious concerns about anti-integrative tendencies back then. We were still chewing on the Blok report, Mr Blok is sitting today in Box K, which concluded that integration was only partly a success, but that public action had not contributed to it. They were very worrying signals, and they have not diminished; the debate has also not been less polarized; I would remind you that this was the debate in which Mr Wilders, the late Minister Vogelaar, referred to it as 'butter-crazy'. It was not a nice debate, and I recognized it in parts today. This when we just need to see what we're talking about. We must try to do this with each other as little polarized as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u209	What I find less beautiful today is the following. Mrs Van Toorenburg, quite rightly, was horrible about Koran lessons, madrassas, Koran schools and abuse of children and so on. But now we tabled a motion on 10 April 2013: 'whereas we need to understand the scale of these abuses', which we discussed this morning. "Asks the government to launch a nationwide investigation into abuse during Qur'an lessons, and to proceed to the order of the day." There's no other word in that motion. It's about Koran lessons, that's all. And then the CDA says: against. The CDA didn't even want an investigation. I'm really sorry about that. We can talk about the tone or about the dictation being in the middle. No, I'm sorry about this. What is Mrs Van Toorenburg's response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u210	It's very simple. I'm actually just 100% sure I should look at the Acts and see that somewhere in some context there was something horrible ugly about it. If it were so simple that we had to investigate whether there was child abuse, the cabinet would have embraced the motion and the judgment would have been Chamber. But there's always a consideration at a PVV motion that makes you think: it's like they want me not to be able to sign it. It happens every time. I have no reason to believe that that was the case again with this motion. And if it wasn't in the motion itself, then a charger went ahead of which the dogs didn't like bread either. That is often the reality and makes it clear that I did not support this motion, no matter how great it probably sounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u211	A wonderful answer, all fun, laughing, but it's about those kids. It's a serious story. Children are being abused in a Koran lesson. Well, then it's nice to be laughing about it, but I'm not laughing about it. Then we can talk about ankeilers and horrible texts, but that motion says: "The Chamber, heard the debate, finding that the GGD in Rotterdam, The Hague and Tilburg, among others, has indicated that children are being abused during Koran lessons, finding that there is no national investigation into the abuse of children during Koran lessons, considering that it is necessary to understand on what scale these abuses occur, asking the government to launch a national investigation into abuse during Koran lessons, and going to the order of the day." I have looked into the debate as well as an ankeiler. I would therefore like to give Mrs Van Toorenburg a little lower voice from the moral level and not to laugh about child abuse anymore. Because when we get to the point, when we have to vote, Mrs Van Toorenburg does not give at home with the CDA. The kids are better off with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u212	It just makes me laugh harder. So what is actually happening here? Must you consider that you have been a politician here for many years and apparently are not even able to obtain a majority for such an apparent motion. That's a lot to say. Apparently, there's always something in it that can't do that, or maybe there's another motion in that same debate that we thought would have to be him. Let us just see what we can do about this today, because we are really not going to get any further in this debate with this kind of thing. It's very pathetic. In fact, it is a missed opportunity for you that you have not managed to obtain a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u213	Finalizing, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u214	So Mrs. Van Toorenburg turns it around again, just like this morning. It was the PVV that made Muslims feel excluded. That was 1,400 years before Wilders, of course, by Wilders. They are being locked out, and that is why they are behaving badly; that is what Mrs Van Toorenburg said this morning. And now we have to be ashamed or a little sad because we do not get a majority in favour of that motion, because we cannot do that, when she is the one who did not vote in favour. I'll tell you what was going on. There was nothing going on in that debate. There was nothing wrong with the motions that were filed. The CDA was in a PVV boycott period, a very conscious PVV boycott period, which was simply pronounced openly. That's the story. The kids had to choke because the focus was on the PVV. One degree focus, 359 degrees where children were abused among others. That was forgotten, because the PVV had to be destroyed. That's the filthy politics here in The Hague. But in the meantime, blowing down the moral plateau like we did. That's the CDA. If I were a civilian in the voting booth, I'd think about it a little bit longer before my pencil went there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u215	Well, if I were to stand in the voting booth and look seriously at the horrible PVV election programme and see them tearing the whole of the Netherlands apart and then no one else takes seriously, I'd think: hm, this party doesn't get anyone beside itself anymore; what an extremely lost voice. Not only do all the motions the PVV came up with never reach a majority, but there doesn't even sound like a decent sound. I think that's what this is about. It would be very helpful if they could take a more constructive look at how we can actually solve a problem. But I did not say for nothing: fourteen years ago we also had a polarized debate on the same subject, and unfortunately it will not be any different soon. Anyway, luckily we have a good report. The Rog Committee has carried out research into unwanted influence from non-free countries and has thrown the dangers into our living rooms very intensely last summer. In our country, based on western fundamental rights, we see very vulnerable people gradually coming into the grip of radical currents, radical Islamic currents. We see parallel societies emerging. Salafism is unfortunately not put in the way here in the Netherlands for the time being. Through informal education, our children are poisoned with anti-integrative and anti-democratic ideas for hours in a row. There are mosques that are taken over by supporters of Salafism. They're drifting away from us. It's a façade policy. Apparently, the western, democratic, constitutional values are not affected, but in the meantime, parallel societies are actively being formed where the radical thought is thriving. But anyone who thinks that we are turning against all Muslims with our firm claims is mistaken. I don't think so. We are right about all those Muslims, all those courageous people, including all those courageous people who have spoken out for the Rog committee and then been threatened, but also to mayors like Marcouch and others obliged to set boundaries now. Moderate people are overrun by professionally organized dominant wrong sound. That makes Muslims in the Netherlands unfree. They are intimidated and even face violence if they resist. Mr. Chairman. It is our common task to provide a good answer to that. So it doesn't help that we put all Muslims in a corner, but it doesn't help if we look away from this. I speak well in spicy terms, but even when I look at the cabinet letter, I am not very reassured. Because actually I thought that letter was a bit... "Lou loene" might not be quite the right term, but I thought the letter was a little too waiting, a little too much in the sense of: we can, we will, we want to. I would simply like to ask on a number of points to take more concrete steps. I don't want to do that ugly. I really want to encourage you to take those steps. When I read that we 'but have to deal with the reality that Turkey is conducting a diaspora policy', I think we have 140 mosques directly controlled from Ankara, Diyanetmoskees, which are used as a kind of vehicle for the intimidation of Armenians in Almelo and supporters of Gülen. We can't accept that anymore, can we? We can't just say that we need to think a little bit about counter-strategy, can we? I would really like to ask this cabinet what else we can do about it. We cannot accept in the Netherlands that a country which is becoming less and less democratic and which is increasingly creepy in dealing with resistance, with journalists and with politicians, such a country with an increasingly strict way of looking at Islam, will decide how our mosques are spoken. I would really like the cabinet to take one step harder to see what it can do about it. Then I am also talking about trying to do more to stop the supply of imams from the stranger. They simply do not contribute to integration in the Netherlands. I just want to know from the cabinet how it's going to turn the tide. How are we finally going to ensure that leading mosques in the Netherlands have imams trained here in the Netherlands and those believers no longer turn against our Western society? I am glad to see that serious steps are being taken in Germany and in France, and I would like to ask the cabinet if we are going to work with them to ensure that we can do that in the Netherlands too. It is also a thorn in our eye that hate preachers actually get too much space in the Netherlands. We've had the brave mayor Krikke here in The Hague. He made sure someone didn't get that space anymore. The Minister helped with that, too. We organized the law. But then it is very annoying that in Gouda he can actually go his divine course until the mayor in Gouda doesn't want to go there anymore. Can't we make something for that, even on the Internet, so that at least there's a much clearer signal to hate preachers in the sense of: we don't want you to get a stage here and if you do, we'll stop it? Maybe we should do a screening in advance. I really want to hear from the Cabinet what else we can do about this. We have already dealt with the following subject in a number of interruptive debates. This is about informal education. There's too many different places to drink from a poison cup. There's no surveillance. I have also thought for a very long time that this should be monitored, that that is the key and that we will see what happens. However, along the way and in this debate, I am increasingly convinced that we cannot actually solve this problem in that direction, because in the end there is just child abuse. The WHO said in 1999 that we really need to look at the definition of this in a different way. At that time, the WHO gave a very clear signal. The point is: if you no longer prepare children for a constructive future in a country, that is emotional neglect and you could consider that as child abuse. Suppose we get these kinds of signals, whether it's from the GGD, which was rightly pointed out, from teachers at a school, or signals that come to a mayor in another way, that we're really worried about a particular place where this is happening, can we investigate them from the glasses of Youth Services and the Children's Protection Council? I would like to hear from the cabinet how it can be looked at along that road. In fact, I notice that every time we talk about supervision and informal education, we shoot into a kind of paralysis, while in the meantime children are being destroyed. That's what we see and what the AIVD warns about, isn't it? We are alienating children from Dutch society. We're even up against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u216	The fatigue strikes, so I'm just gonna call attention to myself. You spoke to both Mrs Becker and Mr Paternotte in a slow-motionshot about informal education. That's what we've got a restrained motion for. I think we should do something with that. You are constantly saying that we should not want that at all, because that is child abuse, so we should ban it. I totally agree with that. But if you don't check, how do you know something's going wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u217	So we have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Paternotte. It is not that we cannot act against child abuse because we do not have a supervisory framework for that. Of course, there are a lot of places where adults and children come together to do something in the development that we do not have government supervision on, but where we do act when there is child abuse. I think it is absolutely fine that we are also organising something of supervision, or at least looking at how you can get a view of it. I am reluctant that we should build a whole supervisory framework, that we should then almost put a sort of "okay" stamp on it, as in that Duyvis commercial, and that there are all those who think: oh, this education is just okay, I'm going to send my child there. That is not what we want at all, because it only makes things worse. I think we have some schools... it's fine if those good homework counseling do. The other day at Nieuwsuur there was a kid from Amsterdam, I think, who was doing a terrible job with all kinds of people to catch up with those educational disadvantages that these children are now experiencing. That's called informal education. Great. Keep doing that. But if we have a signal that children are getting estranged and the AIVD knows this and the municipalities are getting this, you shouldn't say: oh, we have to have a supervisory framework. No, we need to go in there. Youth services should get involved, just like the Children's Protection Board, and we need to act. That's what I think we should do. It's just child abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u218	There are a lot of good weekend schools. I went to Sunday school myself, and I don't think I've alienated myself from society. So you are in good company, I say to Mr Paternotte, although I have missed the scouting. But I think we're getting closer now. So I don't care if we put all the informal education under the same framework. But there's just a lot of education. We don't have enough control over that. So if it comes to light, then it depends on whether someone reports that there is a major disturbance. I don't think that's enough. Because that's how you normalize it, like: I know it's there, but I don't get involved and that's it. I'd like to see if we can get out of something in between. I am not concerned at all about letting go of the same inspection or surveillance framework, with the same reporting and so on. I am concerned that we are organising something of control or supervision more risk-oriented and more structural than it is now, because there is too much going on right now that we know is not right. Then it's gonna go wrong. This is perhaps not so much a concluding remark, but let us look together towards the cabinet which can, rather than just saying that nothing can. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u219	Yeah, absolutely. That is why I find it interesting to see that, as a Chamber too, we are moving towards a somewhat creeping goal that we ultimately want to achieve with each other, but I always go along with that word'supervisory'. Control is something else than supervision. Monitoring is a kind of setting of: there is supervision and there is eventually a monitoring report and then we all agree. And I'm actually not okay with it in principle. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u220	Framing is always essential in our field, so if the word "supervisory" is too much pimples and hassle, then I am the first to delete it, but if you also think that there should be some control and that it should be less noncommittal than it is now, I think we can find each other in that. With these words I would like the cabinet to react, in the sense that there will be something more than in the letter of 10 December last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u221	Yes, that would be the profit of today's debate. Of course, I do not just have grumblings, because I think it is very good that the cabinet has taken a number of things very seriously. First of all, we adopted the bill on 2:20, which will ensure that a number of organisations whose aim is to overthrow or abolish the democratic rule of law can be banned. In doing so, the government intends to address radical and extremist organisations whose purpose or activities are contrary to public policy. I would like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection, looking at this parliamentary interrogation committee and everything that has been heard there, whether or not we should look at the Salafism and the ban on certain organisations in that area. I call it the Muslim Brotherhood. Is that something we can put past that 2:20 bar? I should like to hear something more concrete from the Minister if he is thinking of banning organizations that are working on that idea in the Netherlands. That means profit. I would also like to repeat a number of mayors in the Netherlands. It is also a good thing that we find the cabinet on our side when it comes to understanding wrong money flows. The financing of civil society organisations should not be accompanied by undesirable foreign influence, the cabinet said. They abuse the freedoms that apply here in the Netherlands and therefore it is also very good that there is now a bill in the Chamber to give at least the mayor, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the power to have access to donations. We have received a very interesting bill from the Minister on this matter. The report is ready and we are waiting for the answers after which we can deal with it. However, I still have something that I think is unsatisfactory. We have now concluded that we cannot simply stop all the money flows. If you don't forbid something, you can't stop the money flow. I also understand the reasoning of the Council of State. That is why I think it is right that it should be looked at that if there is any problematic behaviour, that money flow can be stopped. I'd like to invite the Cabinet to look into that after all. It gave itself a little bit of that hook on page 17. So why don't you work that out? I heard Mrs Becker say that today. So I actually want to take a step more. We are now going to organise that insight with each other, but my question to the cabinet is to look at Austria as well. That country has a very different system. They know all kinds of state-approved religions and all kinds of laws that you can even get chills from when you pronounce them, even though they may be well-meant. But there is one aspect in it, and that is that much more agreements are made about how they get their money and what they do with it. Could the cabinet indicate to us in a letter sometime before the summer how they arranged it there? During the parliamentary interrogation, there was a lot of talk about it. The Islamgesetz was discussed. It was also unclear to me how that works. We shouldn't want that, but at the same time there are things in it that I think: well, it's not so crazy that you're having a leading religious institution and asking questions like how it's funded, what the members are paying and what a permit costs. In short, how do they do that there? They can't just be miserable, can they? So I would really like to hear from the cabinet whether there is anything more to be done in this area. First of all, if it's problematic, try to ban the influx. It is good that this transparency is organised, but can lessons be learned from what other countries are doing, namely making firm agreements with organisations on how this funding has been made and how it is going to be done in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u222	On the one hand, Mrs Van Toorenburg says: making firm agreements with organisations on how to finance and how to limit it. That seems very good to me; I fully agree with that. It also mentions Austria, which indeed has an Islam Law, i.e. a law for Islam, and also laws for other religions. Each religion has its own law and laws differ. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that we should be proud in the Netherlands that we do not have different rules for different religions and that we should not want them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u223	Yes, very good. I was kind of philosophizing how we could do that. Mr Paternotte was right to say that we should not go in Austria's direction. I think that's a fair warning. We shouldn't do that. Even if you do not think that what Austria is doing is good, you should not wipe out the whole system of Austria. Because they also have a number of things out there that might be smart. So let's just look at this part. I understand that much more Austrian legislation says that reciprocity must be discussed, that there must be agreement on funding. But I noticed from the parliamentary questioning that no one really knew exactly what was going on. I went Google then. My German is quite good, but I was a bit overasked to ride through it and understand the ins and outs of it. So I would actually like to ask the cabinet: can it be learned from each other, if we look together with other countries, for example, how to act against radical imams, even at this point, as far as funding is concerned? And look specifically at Austria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u224	I'll just have a little more time. I am happy to learn from other countries and to see what agreements are made with organisations, but you have, of course, referred to the term 'Islamgesetz'. We have a political party in the Netherlands, which just ran away, which also wants Islam law in the Netherlands, namely to abolish Islam in the Netherlands. That is why I think it is so important to say: no, we do not want Islam law in the Netherlands, so Islam law is not the path we are going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u225	No, we're not. Let's be very clear about that. We are not going to make laws for religions, certainly not any other laws for other religions. Of course, we have laws on religions, including in the Netherlands. Make no mistake, we have several, but not one in which different religions are placed along a different measuring bar. And yet we can see how different legislation regulates things. I can take a next step right away. We should not just look at Austria; I would also ask the cabinet to look at England. Look how they organized surveillance there. There they have the Charity Commission, which looks at charity organisations, at anbi-like organizations. They're checking on the donations. So I want not only to look at Austria, but also specifically at England, how that supervisor is working there. Can't we take advantage of that, too? Two short points. I'm a little critical of the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing. I am quite honest with you: I really listened to the conversation between the chairman of the committee and the task force with crooked toes. I do not know whether the various Members here in the Chamber have done themselves any favors by listening back to that conversation. I was getting further and further off that television because I thought I'd go through it differently. At the end, the conclusion was very simple for me: this is just not going to win the war. This was such a toe-curdling story, but it's not people's fault. It ultimately depends on the powers with which they are directed. And when I hear that they actually want to see what's going on, we have the Financial Expertise Centre on the other hand. But how brilliant did we arrange it in the Netherlands? They can't share information. I don't think you'll win the war. So I would actually like to ask the Cabinet whether it can be ensured that one way or another a basis is created for that Financial Expertise Centre to exchange something in a way with this Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing, so that we can look more closely at how things go wrong. This is what we need to talk about more intrusively and the escalation ladder of that club is that in the latter case they can really disrupt. I would then like to be able to perform, but we were just talking about that. Because I think that if we do not do something about those powers and the possibility of exchanging information, then we will not succeed in the end. I'll come to a conclusion. I think it's been very good that, as I've said before, we've looked at the monster in the mouth. There are excrements that a committee from this Chamber has wanted to look at very widely, but I have also heard very well that we should be careful not to pretend that it is about all Muslims, that it is about all forms of informal education, that it is about all mosques, because very good things are happening. Just this week you will see that all kinds of Islamic organisations also see that if parents are not powerful in the Dutch language, they may have to step up their own efforts to give the children extra homework guidance. So fantastic things are happening, but let us also try to encourage resilience further. I think this is what's going on. There are all very clever things in the 29-page letter from the cabinet, but I do miss some concrete steps in this respect too. Sometimes it's still a little bit: we're gonna encourage them, we're gonna talk to them, they're gonna have to do it themselves. I would really like to ask how we can better help all those who are trying so hard for this society and so hard for all these children to participate strongly in our society. In the end, it is not only for society as a whole, but also for them, in particular, that we believe that the excesses should be dealt with, precisely in the context of the freedom of religion we are so proud of in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u226	Thank you very much for your input. We are now ready for the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term. That is Mrs Van der Graaf, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the floor. In our country we are blessed with the freedom to believe, to form an association, to fundamentally disagree. Sometimes we don't know how exceptional that is in the world. We live in a strong democratic rule of law and in an engaged society. I also enjoy that freedom we have here, including the freedom to confess my faith. I would like to give that freedom to others as well. That is also the crux of freedom for me. It can only exist if it is reciprocal and if you not only use that freedom for yourself, but also free others and thus respect our democratic rule of law. Unfortunately, that doesn't always happen. That also makes our way of living together sometimes feel vulnerable. We can also lose it by separating people from society or by spreading toxic messages. Mr. Chairman. I thank the committee that delivered the report for its work. The title of her report is (in) invisible influence. They have made visible, brought to the surface what is invisible to me most Dutch people. It wasn't always visible to me either. In this respect, the report of the interrogation committee contains worrying findings. The investigation shows that there is an undesirable influence, including from non-free countries. That question of inquiry has been answered by the committee with a full "yes." This influence takes place in various ways, for example through the establishment, administration and financial support of mosques and informal mosque schools. Such influence can lead to erosion of our democratic rule of law. And it can also cause certain groups to become alienated from our society because they reject our core values and freedoms. In addition, the Committee writes, there are also state actors active, who try to control communities abroad and seek political support for their own domestic political position. That is why my group has taken note of the report with great care. I must say immediately how important it is to always speak with two words on this subject. We must name the problems, but at the same time we must be careful not to throw away whole groups. The vast majority of all Muslims and their organizations function very well in our society, have a home in our society, are at home here. But there are forces that have a hostile attitude towards our society, sometimes stirred up from abroad. The Muslim community itself still suffers most from such influence and radical undercurrents. And there are plenty of examples where reasonable, moderate mosques suffered from extremist influences, or even were taken over. In short, the problems identified in the report are not exemplary for the entire Muslim community in our country; they are exceptions, it seems. I think it is important to continue to name this and also to find the nuance in this discussion. I therefore also support Mr Van Ojik's proposal to ask the WODC again for research. And maybe it's also good to keep monitoring this, to see what the size is and how it develops over the years. Mr. Chairman. I have to think about what Mrs Harzi said in the committee hearings. Afterwards, she was threatened by what she said. Her mosque in Geleen was taken over by young salafist Muslims, who started a hotshot against the original mosque visitors and tried to get funding from the Gulf States to build a large Islamic center. This clearly illustrates that moderate groups can become victims of radical influences, trying to turn Muslims against each other and turn against society. And that leads to polarization, to disintegration and if we are not careful about a parallel society. Mr. Chairman. In an interruption with Mr Azarkan, I quoted the example of the demonstration in Almelo at the monument placed to commemorate the Armenian genocide. Then, in 2014, provocative slogans were scanned there as "Karabakh becomes the grave of the Armenian." We are now living in 2021 and we all know what has happened there over the past year. Such provocative slogans are very serious. That is provocative and disruptive in our society. If a state actor such as the Turkish government is involved in this, then we must be able to intervene. Mr. Chairman. That is why my group believes that we need to take firm action against cases of unwanted influence. Because with this report in hand, we can no longer ignore it: it is taking place, it is extremely risky and we have so far not enough resources to do anything about it. We actually only have soft power now; a mayor can have a conversation. The committee has also spoken to several mayors who state that. We can find the dialogue. We could try asking for pieces. We can see if we want to have access to the financial documents. But we have virtually no way to really intervene if things go wrong. In the coalition agreement there were plans to do something about that, but that turns out to be rather tough. It is good that we are now working on transparency, but the Christian Union really sees this as a first step. We're seeing some kind of escalation ladder in front of us. It is extremely important to enter into the conversation, because without conversation we are nowhere. This meeting, good contacts within communities and open dialogue are essential. The question of transparency is an important second step. Civil society organisations should, upon request, provide insight into the books and donation information. So the bill is a step in the right direction. Sharing signals is also essential. It is good that we have a Task Force Problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding, but the report shows that improvements are still needed in the operation and information sharing, for example the sharing of information between the Task Force and the Financial Expertise Centre. I'd like a response from the cabinet on this point. Can it provide a basis for that? The use of diplomatic channels is also an important step to ensure continued foreign financing, to exert diplomatic pressure and to exchange information. I ask the Foreign Minister, who is here, how effective these diplomatic channels are. Mr. Chairman. If there are signs that there is unwanted influence or dubious money flows and it is not possible to speak openly about them and to get transparency about them, then there must be a next step. My group believes that it is important to be able to intervene in a targeted manner. When a mayor, in consultation with the Task Force Problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding, concludes that an organisation focuses on undermining democratic values and fundamental freedoms, on our human rights, he should be able to ask the Minister to impose an administrative ban on foreign financing in the event of foreign financing, or to recover the funding already received, or to freeze the funds. The cabinet says it doesn't see any possibility of banning foreign money flows. On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, the Cabinet concludes that a generic ban on financing on the basis of a list of non-free countries is not feasible. A generic ban is also very intense. You might shoot a cannon at a mosquito and you run the risk of making the good suffer from the evils or destroy things that are not undesirable. That is why the Christian Union believes that we should look at a targeted ban: an option, a possibility in the law. In an earlier debate on this issue, my group asked to see how administrative possibilities could be increased to counter undermining activities from abroad. We have to note that there are still few enforcement options. We must do this quickly and I ask the cabinet what possibilities it sees for that. Can the Cabinet respond to this? We must consider when foreign funding is undesirable, because it is not always undesirable and it is not always problematic at all. There are also enough funding flows from the Netherlands to foreign organisations to support certain forces, oppositions and minorities in other countries. A lot of good work is happening. Mr. Chairman. It's important to find out where the money came from. Is it from countries that reject our core values, our freedoms, our democratic rule of law? Is it from countries where there is no freedom of religion, where there is no democratic rule of law? If that is the case, I think we should be very critical of the flows of funding and, above all, of the influence that comes with that money. It is not so easy to make a ready list of unfree countries. I understand. But if we put it past this measuring bar, is there any undermining of our democratic rule of law, of our fundamental freedoms, of rejecting the core values and freedoms? Wouldn't it be better if we got a list? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Should we not also look at the criterion of reciprocity? Do these countries respect our rule of law and our freedoms? I'd really like to get a reaction from the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The last point I would like to raise is that we must also look at what is happening in other European countries. We have seen in the report that France, Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Austria and the United Kingdom are struggling with the same questions. They have the same influences there. The report says how they organize it. Our countries are also different. I think it is important to see if we can work together with a coalition of like-minded countries in the European Union so that we can recognise and tackle these problems together. We have the impression that it is not so easy to do so at European level. I therefore hope that the Foreign Minister will be prepared to see if such a group of countries can be formed so that this can be speeded up. I ask him to look also at the legislation that is or will be in Denmark. We conclude from the report that they too intend to introduce legislation to prohibit the receipt of donations if they come from an organisation that undermines fundamental freedoms and the rule of law and criticises human rights. Finally, Mr President. Freedom is a great asset. We share that freedom. We give it to everyone, including those who do not share our beliefs. But it's always reciprocal. It has to come from both sides, and it doesn't always happen now. That is why it is important to continue to defend that freedom. The report makes it clear that this is urgently needed. We must therefore stand for the democratic rule of law and for our freedom. We must defend them at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u228	Thank you for your input. Mr. Van Dijk, go ahead with your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u229	I didn't hear you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u230	You may place your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little surprised. Mrs Van der Graaf's political leader has been at the forefront of this issue. In fact, I suspect him to have written the passage in the government agreement on banning foreign money flows. That's not negative. We have always supported him in this. But Mrs Van der Graaf is right to point out that the cabinet does not really get that far because it is all very difficult. That's very disappointing at the end of the afternoon, don't you think? Should we not look a little more decisively at whether we can encourage the cabinet today to really get to work with a ban on the foreign financing of our religious institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u232	Sure. I am also considering a motion on this point in the second term. As I said, it turns out to be tough. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the Cabinet indicated that a generic ban on foreign financing cannot be applied. I think that is a very logical argument, but I have this afternoon it is still noon; we have been here for a long time making the plea to look at what you are doing. What can you do to address these organizations? How do you ensure that you can intervene when there is undermining behaviour that has a disruptive effect on our society and that affects our rule of law and our freedoms? That is very important, so my answer to your question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u233	But aren't you late? If there's undermining behavior, antidemocratic behavior, etc., then you have to establish all that first and then you're going to intervene. Should we not say in advance that we do not want this, as we have said in political parties? In addition, we say: we do not want influence and interference from abroad. It's very good that the Chamber is working on that, but this is the same thing, isn't it? We do not want foreign interference in our religious institutions. I announced I'd come forward with a proposal. Can I tempt you to take a step in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u234	What I also mentioned in my plea is that you have to look at the countries where it comes from. So if Mr Van Dijk makes a concrete proposal to that effect, then I am very much prepared to look at what he is doing there. I already indicated it and the cabinet itself indicated it: it is difficult to get into a list of non-free countries. I understand that, but I also mentioned a number of criteria that you might be looking at in order to come up with some sort of list of countries from which we simply would not like to receive funding that affects our religious organisations. I think it's very good to look at that. But I also think it is important to look not only at the countries where the money comes from, but above all at the influence it brings with it, at the impact it ultimately has in our own, Dutch society. These are both elements that I would very much like to see come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that we suspend the sitting until 5 p.m., also because we have been told that the Minister of Justice will be able to join the debate. Questions seem to have been asked to him, too. The Minister of Justice is still on the phone with the Minister of Justice. I'm suspending the meeting... yes? Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u236	Another small additional proposal. If we suspend until 5:15 p.m., as far as I'm concerned, we'll have the lunch break right away and then we can go through in one piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u237	I'm not gonna do that. It's too soon. I would also like to put some pressure on this, to be honest with you, and I am therefore very much in favour of progress in the debate. That means that we may not be able to deal with the whole first term, but I think it's too early to suspend before dinner break. Anyway, I'm listening to the room. If the Chamber now says in a majority... it's an hour. What's being called now really can't be, because it takes time to make the food. If the majority of the House now wants an hour's suspension, then we can do so. Yeah? Is there a majority for that? Then we'll suspend until 5:45 p.m. And then we'll go on in one go. This is the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u238	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on undesirable influence from non-free countries. We need the first term from the government. It is represented by three rulers, whom I welcome again. First will be the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, then the Minister for Legal Protection and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet response to the POCOB report has been broadly signed. The two Ministers for Education, Mrs Van Engelshoven and Mr Slob, and the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren, also signed them. I will take the questions to the Ministers for Education and Foreign Affairs into account in my reply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will address the foreign affairs issues. The Minister for Legal Protection will address questions on legal protection and legal questions. He does that on behalf of Minister Grapperhaus, who had other obligations today. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet stands for protecting the rights of everyone in the Netherlands. This equality is the foundation of our democratic rule of law. That rule of law allows everyone to make their own choices, regardless of background or political or religious belief. He forms our common roof that protects everyone's freedom. At the same time, the rule of law is not a peaceful property. He needs research and protection, and we must also offer it. This also means drawing clear boundaries when there are undesirable forms of foreign interference. The parliamentary interrogation committee Unwanted influence from non-free countries put the spotlight on this at the beginning of 2020. Turns out it's tough stuff. The cabinet is grateful to the interrogation committee, and thus to the Chamber as a whole, for its insights, which are also laid down in the final report. I also congratulate the members of the committee. Two of them are now present in the Chamber. Others have also shared their views on the issue, such as the Council of State and you here in this house, but also Islamic communities in the Netherlands and a number of mayors, whom we have also consulted on this issue. We have learned that a clearer definition of "unwanted influence" is needed. It is essential that it clashes with our idea of a free society as another country, a religious group or anyone else trying to determine how Dutch people feel about their religion, about male-female relations, about football or music if necessary. I think there is broad agreement about that in this house, from left to right. This is also apparent from all the motions that have been tabled on this subject over the last ten years, I think. Both by GroenLinks and by D66, VVD, PVV: Kamerbreed has been constantly asked for attention. Mr. Chairman. Then how do we prevent this unwanted influence? The government's strategy is based on three pillars: information, action and prevention. In order to be informed, we consider, among other things, how we can ensure that, for example, the AIVD has sufficient resources to be able to conduct research into collusive financing. But we also use the diplomatic instrument. Meanwhile, we are actively informed by countries from the Gulf region when there are plans to fund organisations in the Netherlands. Mr Blok will look into this in a moment. Another possible action against influence investigated by the government was a total ban on funding from non-free countries of religious and civil society organisations. You have also said: after years of study, after investigations and after advice, also on various variants, the cabinet concludes that a total ban is not a viable way. With such a ban, we would burden out-of-proportion organizations with all kinds of rules. In addition, it would cause problems in relations with many countries where we also like to engage in business. Moreover, a lot of money flows are not at all problematic. Some of you said that in the first term too. A total ban would also pass the target. That is why we opt for an organizational approach. We focus on the receiving party in the Netherlands, but also on the donating party abroad: sometimes on state actors, but often also non-state actors. That is the most proportionate approach and it also leads to the most efficient use of our resources. In the second line, the action line, we focus on problematic behavior that occurs in the Netherlands. For that we have set up a task force, the Task Force Problematic Behavior. Seven departments and services work together on a permanent basis. If intolerance or anti-democratic behaviour occurs or people's freedoms are restricted within a group, the task force can be consulted. This also applies if there are rumors that people are being encouraged to avoid medical care, for example, or that there is self-direction. Many of these signals come from the municipalities. They are essential partners for the Empire. They know what is going on, and they often have the lead in dealing with these kinds of problems. Again, it's problematic behavior. I've said that before in this room. If it's criminal behavior, in a way it's clear. Then the D.A. can prosecute because it's a criminal offence: the law says it can't be done. This is about problematic behavior, that we all find undesirable and that we all feel unsafe, but that is not literally punishable. That also makes it so complicated to fight. In the meantime, we have developed tools that allow a municipality to determine whether there is indeed problematic behaviour. And if that is established, the municipality can see what possibilities there are for doing something about it. With about fifteen municipalities we have several meetings a year at various levels. This is, of course, about the municipalities where this problematic behaviour is more common. In 2021, we will offer municipalities that want to offer training in this area. We have dealt with a number of cases in recent years. Recently a number of cases have been applied by municipalities to the Reich to provide clarification and advice. The task force will not continue to restrict itself to the problematic behavior of some in salafist circles. We have started with this, but in the meantime we have also started an inventory of other problem areas for which this approach can also work. We are thinking, among other things, of extreme right-wing behavior in which there is also conduct that could threaten the democratic rule of law. Then we also know that just a friendly conversation is not enough. Where necessary, we will not hesitate to act. The Transparency Act for civil society organisations, by Mr Dekker, recently submitted to your Chamber, allows municipalities to require access to the books, if, for example, there are indications of unwanted funding. Municipalities can then make that known to us. If there are clearly undemocratic organisations, such an organisation can eventually be banned. In October, your Chamber approved an amendment to Article 22 of the Civil Code, which also made it easier to do so. But sometimes repressive action also has an escalating effect, which gives unwanted influences a better chance. I think Mrs Van Toorenburg said this in her speech. There is therefore a need for careful consideration on a case-by-case basis. Mr Dekker will be discussing this in a moment. Unwanted foreign financing also has a European dimension. That is why, as a cabinet, we are also committed to a European approach. Minister Blok and Minister Grapperhaus have asked the European Commission to make proposals in this area in a letter. That letter was shared with your room. The answer was received this week. Mr Blok will deal with that in a moment. I have also recently been in contact with my colleagues from Denmark, Germany, France, Belgium and Austria. By the way, the Austrian colleague resigned last week, but that aside, I do not see a causal link, at least I hope there is no such link. This contact was precisely because of the question: what can we learn from each other and how can we work together in Europe on these issues? There too, better connections have now been established. Funny enough, these are also often institutional problems. I often discuss the labour market with my colleagues, but you can see that, for example, a theme such as integration or coexistence is often involved with the Ministers of the Interior and sometimes with Education. So the colleagues I meet in other countries are not always the ministers for integration. That too is one of the subjects on which we are now opening the lines to see if we can pick this up together. Finally, Mr President, my introduction. The cabinet therefore relies on better information and intelligence and takes action if necessary. We are doing this in proportion, that is to say, we are taking the measures required by the situation. What the cabinet is already doing, but wants to do even more, is focusing on prevention. Mrs Becker drew attention to this in her introduction. In the end, we want there to be no more audience for undesirable influences. Then it's about resilience, resistance of communities. Mr Azarkan had a good example of this in his contribution, namely the mosque in Rotterdam-Zuid, of which the board itself says: we do not want these influences; we do it ourselves. Communities also have their own responsibility, for example by promoting the possibility of critical debate when there is problematic behaviour and unwanted influence. That is also part of the resilience agenda. We can help as a government to strengthen this resilience, for example by promoting mosque education that is in line with modern, open society. We are now running two pilots in the Netherlands in Rotterdam and in Tiel, I believe; no, in Roermond to see if we can come up with a better offer, which also makes the salafistic alternative less attractive in a manner of speaking. Foreign influence could also decrease if we provide imams trained in the Netherlands. We hope to be able to start such training by 2022 at the latest. It also helps to combat Muslim discrimination, Islamophobia and exclusion. That is why there is such a project as KIESMIJ, which helps young people with a migration background to find an MBO placement. Finally, I would like to say that careful communication is also of benefit to prevention. The way in which this type of debate is often held in The Hague is not helpful. And that's just impact. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that just as in her first term, and she is right about that. Because if we miss the point with our language and our tone, we are invigorating the polarization in society. Words matter. I think it is important that we be precise and discuss what we find problematic. I think today's profits are something that several Members of Parliament have said: pay attention to that tone, pay attention to combating polarisation. Mr President, this was my introduction. I have a number of blocks with concrete questions and answers. I am about to start with a block on the task force, which includes funding, legal basis and enforcement. Then OBI, unwanted foreign interference, then informal education, then the online approach, then the resilience agenda and the breeding ground and finally a few other questions. Those are the blocks I'm treating. I'm gonna try to get through it fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u240	Very good. It is good that you have already mentioned the cubes, so that each Member has an idea of how the debate is going to proceed. On the basis of the introduction, Mr Azarkan is the first to have an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thanks for the introduction. A brief question: how does the Minister take the mosques with him in training imams? I've heard on my rounds that there's a lot of need for that. It has to happen often now because of scarcity. Mosques indicate that it is often people who stand at a distance from our society and do not speak the language. They would find it much better if they speak Dutch; some really have a preference for it. My question is that the Minister may also later indicate in a letter the manner in which these organisations are taken into account and how cooperation is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u242	If you don't mind, I'll come back to that in a moment to the block of resilience, in which, for example, we are also talking about the professionalisation of mosque administrations, in which imams trained in the Netherlands can play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u243	I have a question that might also be part of the introduction. I would like to ask the Minister if he would look back again at an important occasion for this debate and the investigation: the broadcasting of Newsuur. I looked them back this morning and what you see there is really shocking. Main conclusion: at least 30 Islamic organisations have applied for or actually received funding from the Gulf States in recent years. We are talking about millions of euros from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. A key question of this debate is: will this government, with its own proposals, prevent these matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u244	This is indeed the overarching core question. That is actually my introduction to the next block, to the task force and its background, but also to Mrs Becker's question on alternatives to foreign funding. I'd like to walk through it step by step. But in general, you're right. The statements of NRC and Nieuwsuur I think about a year or two and a half ago were the direct reason to set up the task force. For example, Mr Slob has had a specific case with Cornelius Haga in order to better apply the interpretation, information and possibilities that exist in consultation with the municipalities, in order to cooperate with the ministries of Foreign Affairs, SZW and Justice and Security, but also with the intelligence services and the Ministry of Education. As I said in my introduction, this often occurs with a foundation, an organization or a salafistic driver in a municipality, where the municipality sees that problematic behavior arises and wonders what it can do about it. It's not a criminal offence, she can't call the state's attorney's office or send the police on it, but she can see that it has undesirable influence. That can be a lot of different things. It can be in the form of financing, education or keeping the windows closed and pasting and standing with the back to Dutch society. We have seen all these examples, and that is why we set up this task force to help the municipalities better when such a signal comes in. So that's what we've been doing for the past two and a half years. The Committee's report complements this and gives additional suggestions for exploring. We have taken a number of steps, such as Minister Dekker with Article 2:20 BW, but also the new Wtmo on increasing transparency and we are also continuing on the preventive side. All those topics that are in here are the resultant of that approach route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u245	That's very nice. The Minister explains what they have done after these revealing broadcasts, but my question is: are we going to avoid what these broadcasts revealed with the government's new instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u246	Unfortunately, you never know if you're going to stop it altogether. I would not give that guarantee, but we have seen it in recent years, and that is a bit of a process of falling and getting up, I am afraid that, if there are signals, we now have a better view of what instruments we all have. How could you handle it? That's what we learned in other municipalities where this was going on. What are we supposed to be looking for? We have several instruments to better tackle this problem: legal but also preventive instruments. We also have learning tools. Mrs Becker asked about the experiments that have been carried out in municipalities, for example. I dare to say that we have made considerable progress, but we must continue to actively look for new problems, but also for new instruments to tackle the problems. That is, I think, the joint responsibility of cabinet and chamber. That was my introduction to the block, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u247	About the task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u248	I'll continue with the funding ban. That was the first point in Mrs Becker's contribution. It is a right point of attention. Mr Dekker called that a three-stage rocket. We actually have a kind of three-stage missile in our approach to that. The first concerns the signals that exist. That could be Notes Verbales entering the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from Gulf States, for example. It could be signals from municipalities that suddenly a lot of money is available for building a mosque: what exactly is happening there? Let me give you an example. The FEC plays an important role in this. It is about mapping the amounts and the information. The second route is indeed to make all these flows more transparent. The Wmto, Mr Dekker's law, is really meant to increase transparency and make it clear where the money comes from. This has not taken away the source of funding, but I can tell that there is something going on, which we suspect is not pure coffee. The third step is: how can you do that? We have explored a generic ban on financing from non-free countries. We have put a question to the Council of State about this. He has given advice on it and said: you cannot do it; it is not proportionate, it is not directed at the problem and it is not effective. It is easy to get around by financing it through, for example, another European state. After all, we have free movement of capital in Europe. We have also thought about possible alternatives. Are there any alternatives to how you can map this out more? Two routes have been distinguished in the cabinet response. One route is the European route. I'm sure there's a better way to solve the issue of effectiveness. The other route is the hook, as I told Mrs Van Toorenburg, which was included in the letter on the public order criterion. All in all, we have taken a number of steps by making these flows more insightful. A number of investigations have been carried out. That need based on the embassies has now been made clear. We're gonna report them to you these days, too. We can use that information with that explanation, including in that task force. We are moving forward step by step to see if we can create more instruments to tackle this. Eventually such a BW2:20 adjustment is also such an instrument. If you have finally come to the conclusion that such an organisation is really in breach of the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands, you can prohibit such an organisation with the new law of Mr Dekker. These two steps that we still have to take, the European route and the public order route, are still ahead of us to develop further. That's what my colleagues are gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mr Azarkan, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u250	Also a question, briefly. Some of the applications concerned Nieuwsuur. Partly it's some old information, but I'd like to look at today's day or this year. How many mosques have received money from the countries mentioned this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u251	I'm afraid to say that. We can't say yet. At the WODC, your Chamber, in the same debate that Mr Van Dijk asked for, asked to investigate how often this occurs. That's what the WODC tried to do. You've received that investigation. This shows that it is very difficult to understand these flows. I do not know if that is at the heart of the issue. I think the essence of the issue is problematic behaviour. Financing flows from abroad are frequent. It will only become a problem, like the example in your own first term, when influence is bought that leads to behavior that we really prefer not to. This brings people with their backs to Dutch society. That is also the point of criticism of the Council of State about the proportionality of this total ban: then you shoot a mosquito with a cannon, because there are also flows of money that are not at all problematic. Those streams might be good, or they're meant for charities. They could be in the middle of it. That point of criticism by the Council of State is simply justified. It is up to us to make it clearer: if there is a problem in behavior, then we must be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u252	And if we are not talking about which countries have requested and received funding? Just the most recent picture: how many mosques is it now, where that problematic behavior is present?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u253	Different numbers are mentioned. Fifteen or twenty. You're right. Mr Azarkan said in his first term that there are 500 mosques in the Netherlands; a small number of them include, for example, salafistic drivers or extremist ideas. Of course, most of it doesn't. Let's be happy about that, too. That's good to emphasize. The point is, it's not a black and white discussion. It is often that the municipality starts to worry when it gets signals, that there is, for example, problematic behaviour in education or in sermons, or in an extreme right-wing organization, of course, that can be done, it does not have to be just Islamic organisations. Then you have that three-track approach. First you're just gonna talk to the mayor or the alderman often does this and say, "Oh, we're getting these signals, what can we do about it?" Only if that doesn't help, you have the third track: disrupting, withdrawing permits, stopping subsidies and calling us as a task force to see if there are any other instruments, from the Bibob Law to whatever, to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u254	I understand that the Minister says that the absolute numbers do not necessarily say much about the nature or impact of the disturbance. But I was struck by the fact that WODC-research I also said that in my first term, how low the response actually was. Assuming that there are so many mosques that, I think, have an interest in transparency and possibly research, it may be worth the response, which was sometimes only 10%... But I understand that Mr Blok is talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr Blok has been the sponsor of the second study.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u256	I would like to ask him: do some more research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u257	The tricky thing about these kinds of investigations is this. That is what Mr Blok said two and a half years ago, when we had this debate, so Mr Blok has some knowledge of this. He said: if you ask institutions themselves if they receive money from abroad that is intended for problematic behavior, then chances are that the answer is no. In this sense, Mr Dekker's law is the answer to that. Mr Dekker's original law was actually intended to map all the money flows. This is very disproportionate in terms of administrative burden and proportionality of legislation. With Mr Dekker's law, you can ask: where does your money come from? That also gives insight into these flows. But again, asking where the money came from, we did it twice. The WODC report was actually a response to the first report from several years ago. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma tabled a motion on this matter two and a half years ago. This is a second attempt. Each time that doesn't help to increase the insights, I'm going to have it formulated with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u258	In this sense, there may be a connection between the law and the possible conduct of research. Also, the law that is now before you will not be effective until you ask someone for something. I understand very well that it is said that a total ban is disproportionate and perhaps even contrary to all kinds of fundamental rights and other things. We can leave it to the Council of State to point this out. Of course, there's something in between. One could say, for example, that organisations receiving an x-percentage of their budget from abroad are obliged to provide access to it. Let me give you an example. It could also be another criterion. But now, in fact, we have very little knowledge and then we make a law that actually says: only if I explicitly ask you to do something must you do something, and if you do not then you commit an economic offence. There's got to be something in between, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u259	I expected this question, but not from Mr Van Ojik, to be honest. Indeed, it is at the heart of the matter: how are we going to address problematic behavior? That's the point. It's not about the flow of finance. We're worried. Your committee is also concerned that there will be influence with the money that you do not want. This is at the heart of the problem, whether they are state actors or non-state actors. So it's about problematic behavior, because if any money comes in to fund something called an Islamic cemetery, then I don't think anyone has a problem with that. That's always the search. When it comes to problematic behavior, when it comes to countering unwanted foreign influence, you need to develop instruments that counteract it. That's what we keep trying to do. We are exploring a great deal in this area. We have indeed explored a total ban with the Council of State. We have defined this on the basis of reciprocity of countries which are themselves unfree, I believe that Mrs Van der Graaf said so. But it has been said that this is too much of a ban, so let us then come up with alternatives that will take advantage of this problem. That is, for example, public order. That's the hook that's included in the Wiv. That is where we are going to take further steps to see whether, on the basis of that title, we can declare or steal money if there is a problem of behaviour. Mr Van Ojik's suggestion is to ban it generically anyway. Then you'll get back to the question of proportionality. Is it proportionate to issue such a generic ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u260	Then I guess I didn't express myself clearly. My proposal is not to ban the generic. My proposal is to see if there's anything in between. On the one hand, a cannon can be shot at a mosquito with a general ban. On the other hand, you've got what's ahead of you now. If I understand the bill correctly, you will have to give access to your books only if I expressly ask for it and if I see that something is wrong, I can do something. I think there's something in between. For example, you're going to look at an amount above a certain level. That doesn't mean you'll come to the conclusion that it's problematic. If I receive a million a year, I may do very good things with that million, but it is perhaps good to know that an institution or a religious or social organisation receives a million a year from abroad. Now that's completely left open. Now you just have to do something if I ask you to do something. I don't know who to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u261	I think there are a lot of millions of people flashing back and forth every day between abroad and the Netherlands. It's really impossible to keep an eye on that. The essence is that you don't want foreign money, whether it comes from a state actor or a non-state actor, to be funded here by organisations that show behaviour that you prefer not to have in the democratic rule of law Netherlands. That's what it's all about in the core. If you're gonna do it with those millions, of course you're gonna get all the companies that trade with foreign countries. That's quite a lot, I can tell you. Mr Van Ojik says outside the microphone: these are not gifts. It is therefore difficult to determine whether these are gifts or payments. Donations are gifts, but they can also be payments for services or finance from organisations that trade. That's why, I think, it's more proportional and better to find out what behavior we want to counteract.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u262	I think this is also a stray trail that the government is on right now. I think we're assuming the principle: who pays, decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u263	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u264	Well, well, I think it is very undesirable for large sums of money to go to religious organizations from, for example, the Gulf States. I believe that this is a key issue in this debate. If the Minister uses the definition that this happens with the best intentions and that nothing crazy happens with it, then we leave those money flows alone. I guess you won't be there then. I think that money flow is undesirable anyway. If so much money goes to a religious institution in our country, it is undesirable anyway, because who pays determines. Then we may not be able to determine exactly what influence is taking place here, but that is precisely why we have to say: up to here and no further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u265	But also in a rule of law, of course, you have to define, be predictable, about what you want not to happen. You have to start defining why such an organization should not receive that money. I understand Mr Van Ojik's question. You want to get a sense of what's happening and where that money is coming from. You want to keep a finger on the wrist. I understand that very well. Even so, you will have to define very well why this organisation should not receive that money. Then you have to have a definition: what is problematic behavior and what do you want to avoid? Well, then it's back to the behavior. That seems to me to be justified in the rule of law. What do you want to fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u266	Yes, but I'm afraid we'll be in a very complicated discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u267	That's what we've been doing for a couple of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u268	Exactly, and that's what I'm trying to get out of by saying: let's say it's undesirable for money to go to religious institutions from abroad. That's an attempt on my part. That's a clear definition. We all think that it is not desirable. Then let's try to sit on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u269	I don't want to be silly. Well, then we'll have another discussion about all the money to all the religious institutions. We do not have separate legal entity religious institutions in the Netherlands. They're all foundations and organizations. We don't have a box "you're a religious institution." We don't. Then you'd have to do it for all the foundations. By the way, Mr Dekker has also started this transparency obligation for all foundations and organisations in the Netherlands. Mr Dekker will deal with this later. You get undesirable effects, for example with regard to lotteries and charities. All in all, we have often kept these dilemmas upside down in recent years. I understand very well. I also agree at the core. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. We all want to combat money that comes to the Netherlands from abroad and wants to buy influence and goes against the democratic rule of law. Again, we haven't been figured out yet. I say to Mrs Becker: we have not been selected. We continue to look for that hook about public order, whether we can find another legal basis to prevent or forfeit those money flows if there is a problem of behaviour. One of the lessons learned from the Council of State's information question is that a generic ban is not proportionate and does not correspond to the foreseeability of the Dutch State and the rule of law in which we live. Mrs Becker and Mrs Van der Graaf asked about the legal anchoring and the legal basis of the task force. Those are legitimate questions. One of the objectives of the Task Force is to strengthen the information position of the Empire and the municipalities. Since it was founded two years ago, we have taken considerable steps. As far as the exchange of information is concerned, we are, of course, partners as a task force. These partners are the departments, the services and the municipalities. We are bound by the Dutch and European legal frameworks, such as the GDPR when it comes to personal data. The AIVD has an exception to this, because it has the Wiv, with the committee that supervises it. This means that not all parties can share all kinds of information with each other. For that, you just need a legal basis. The principle within the task force is that all individual departments participate on their own basis. For the Ministry of Social Affairs, my lawyers have examined in detail whether there is, in accordance with the GDPR, a legal basis at the Ministry of Social Affairs on the budget in order to be able to process personal data in concrete cases. That does not seem to be the case. Why not? This is about the definition of problematic behavior. How can you define that? For extremism, a legal definition has been made. For problematic behavior, this is very difficult to define. As regards the involvement of SZW in the task force, this implies that personal data is not used. We do not have that legal basis, but because of the facilitating role that SZW often plays in this, that is not the biggest problem either. Of course, the services have that information. They use that information to identify and help the municipalities. Mrs Becker asked: is the task force enshrined in the law? That is difficult, because it is actually a partnership of departments with different legal bases. But one of the main objectives is, of course, to strengthen the information position of the Empire and of the municipalities. From the legal basis we have as departments, we can fulfil this role by combining the information of the services or the information of the Ministry of BZK or OCW with the information of the municipalities. We can then give advice and explanation on that. I think there are two more questions from Mrs Becker and then I'm out of here. Is it true that enforcement requests cannot be submitted by the task force or by the municipalities? As there is therefore no definition of problematic behaviour, they also do not have an enforcement request. It is true that municipalities approach us and say the following. We have an example of problematic behavior here. We have a foundation or organization here that we're worried about. Help us to identify, advise and perhaps put in place instruments to counter this. That is the real purpose of the task force. I'm getting to the last point of this block. We have included in the cabinet response to the POCOB a policy definition of problematic behavior. It's in a box. You've been able to read that. However, this is not a legal definition of problematic behaviour. It's more what we use as a basis to call behavior problematic. But legally that is very difficult to grasp and not to define. Everything that happens there falls within the limits of the law. It is therefore, once again, not punishable, unlike things such as extremism and public order, which are of course defined as criminal or as... I'm not a lawyer and I always have to look for the right words. Mrs Becker has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u270	Yeah, I'm kind of looking for what the minister's actually saying here. I agree with what Mrs Van Toorenburg said about the task force: I think it is a noble ambition, but... Well, we also had a technical briefing on it once. We heard what was said before the committee. As a result, I really feel that there are a lot of good intentions, but that task force cannot really bite through. I was actually rather pleased with the cabinet letter which said that the cabinet considered it necessary to add to the definitions we already have of terror and extremism a definition, namely that of problematic behaviour. It is also being developed, but now I hear the Minister say: yes, but that is a political definition that we cannot do anything with, because it is not in the law. There's no law we can enforce that on. The parliamentary committee of inquiry says in Table 3 about possible solutions: extend the powers of the Task Force Problematic behavior, for example by a law on the task force. In it you could legally regulate the sharing of information, the definition of unwanted foreign influence and the perspectives for action of the Empire and the municipalities. I hear the minister say something about the GDPR and why things couldn't be done. I also know that we cannot easily adapt the GDPR, but we can adapt sectoral legislation in order to be able to share information if that is justified. So I do not think that the Minister's answer is so convincing, while here a serious option is being put forward by the committee, namely to see if you need to create more ground in a law, so that this task force can really go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u271	I'm not against that either, funny enough, but it's a search. Look, we're gonna do that information sharing. We have a legal basis for this, for example for the services covered by the Wiv. If municipalities ask for an explanation, we can do it. That falls within the legal bases that already exist. As a task force, you don't need a separate legal basis for that. The biggest problem, and that's really a continuous search, is to define what that problematic behavior is. How are you gonna define that? We have now written down a policy definition in the cabinet response to indicate what we are thinking of, but it remains very complicated to define it as not a criminal offence, but something to worry about. If we've got that circle around, so to speak, you can define it a little easier, but we're still looking for it. If Mrs Becker has any suggestions for this, I am highly recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yes, I understand that that is difficult, but I think that will be difficult as long as you continue to see it as a kind of vague thing within the policy world and not as something you submit to a parliament at some point and anchor it in a law. The people's representatives can then say to each other: this is indeed what we consider to be a definition of problematic behavior. We will not all agree with that, but we will then establish that definition. It will then be in the law and then we will have a basis on which the task force can actually do its job. Is the Minister at least prepared to explore this and not to allow the situation to continue that there are a lot of bodies at the table that, on the basis of the powers they already have, are a little dependent on goodwill? Does the Minister want to explore that? He says it's complicated to make a definition. I can see that, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u273	Your point is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u274	Yeah, I want to explore it, let me start with that, but it starts the other way around, doesn't it? Just before the historiography. We see that there's behavior that's not criminal, behavior that we can't really do anything with, but we all feel like we don't want to. Then the question rightly arises in your Chamber and in society: what can the government do to stop it? This is how it came into being, and so have the three-track approach and cooperation. In this way, we can use more and more instruments to help us with this. Sometimes they already existed for another reason, for example the Bibob. But it is not a separate point on which we say that we want to make it criminal and legal in order to prosecute people and tackle the problem. I'm gonna take a look at my officials to see if I'm not saying anything really weird right now, but I'd like to go through with that reconnaissance. But it is a continuous search for how we can define, define and legalize this. I've tried it several times over the past few years, but it just didn't work out, either because you're colliding with fundamental rights, or because... For example, freedom of religion often comes back. So it's not an easy setup. It's not unwillingness, but it's a quest where you can grab it. I told you, we haven't found that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u275	At the risk that it will now become very technical: I think that if you continue to approach this in this way, you will never get out. You keep saying: what is criminal is criminal and what is problematic is not criminal and therefore we cannot do anything with it. I think there is a political desire to be able to do something with problematic behaviour. That that is not the same as how you treat terror is clear, but perhaps you can say: if there is problematic behavior, the government has a title to request information or to find out the front door. I can imagine a number of enforcement measures taken by the government which do not directly bring a person to justice, but where the government simply has more title to enter into that freedom. That's what I'm looking for. I would ask the Minister to at least tell the Chamber that he wants to explore that. Not because I want to, but because it is a serious option that the whole committee is presenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u276	I'll get back to you in a minute. I need that... I've been told by people who really know it, that this is some kind of circle that we don't get out of. I do not feel enough safety under my feet to give a clear answer to that now, so I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you. Then the Minister continues his speech with the second block, the unwanted influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u278	The last question in this block was from the CDA, Mrs Van Toorenburg, and was about Austria. You know that there is a system of recognition in Austria, where religious institutions are explicitly recognised by the Austrian State. This also entitles them to certain benefits, such as structural subsidies or the financing of a pastor, pastor or imam, which is thus paid by the government. That is also the main difference with the Dutch system. In the 2019 exploration we wrote that such a recognition system is really different from the freedom of religion we know in the Netherlands. But that is without prejudice to the fact that Mrs Van Toorenburg is right that we must look for what we learn from other countries. Hence the contacts in Germany, France and Denmark, where an attempt is now being made to anchor this in a law. We want to learn from that, and we want to work together with like-minded Member States. We will. I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Grapperhaus calls OBI, undesirable foreign influence and the response to the context strategy that we sent to the Chamber on Turkey in the summer of 2020. The Foreign Minister will be discussing the non-free countries in a moment. With regard to Turkey, of course, we also held a number of debates on this subject in the Committee on Integration, for example when it comes to the structure of the ISN, i.e. the Islamic Foundation Netherlands. We have made agreements about the design of the board, precisely to prevent the feeling that there is direct influence from Turkey in the Netherlands. We have jointly established that from 1 January 2021, Turks who come to the Netherlands to live here will also be subject to the obligation of integration. That was not the case, but it will be from now on. After having seen many tensions between different groups within the Turkish community in the Netherlands in recent years, we have also tried to increase the resilience within the community. Along different ways we try to counteract this unwanted foreign influence in the Netherlands and keep our finger on the wrist. Mr Blok will look into this in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a block on informal education and supervision. Mrs Kuik, Mr Paternotte, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Bishop have asked a lot of questions about this. We've talked about that before. The first very concrete reason was Mr Erdogan's speech in Sarajevo in the summer of 2019, in which he announced the arrival of a subsidy scheme for Turkish weekend schools in the Netherlands. We have had a number of debates on this and we have also agreed with Turkey on, for example, transparency. Mr Blok has been with his colleague in Ankara. There is also a commitment to share everything. That's what we got. Grants were granted to nine or twelve institutions. We have all visited them in the context of the explorations of informal education. So that has been very transparent. A number of times, your Chamber has asked about the possibility of monitoring informal education. Mr Slob often talks about informal training, because it is a different form than the funded education we know in the Netherlands. On 10 December, I think you received a letter on this matter from colleagues from Education. That was an extensive response to this point. I must honestly say that I fully understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's approach. Why? Like the discussion on foreign funding, this is about organisations that have problematic behaviour and that can be through education. That's one of the forms we're worried about, that children are being taught to stand with their backs to Dutch society. That can also be very intensive. This has been the reason for my predecessor, Mr Asscher, a number of years ago to create a separate supervisory law for mosque interiors, for boarding schools, based on the health care of young people and the safety of children. What we keep running into when it comes to monitoring informal training is the same question of demarcation. Then you can include all organizations that provide training in the Netherlands. The joke we've ever made among ourselves is: the Young Democrats, the Young Socialists and the JOVD are also giving education, is that also problematic behavior? No, of course not. Those are neat organizations. Yeah, it's cross-referenced, too. Sorry, I almost forgot. Then you get the question again what exactly is the problematic behavior that we are against. At the same time, we see, also in the DTN, the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, the NCTV that drivers, salafist drivers, are mentioned and organisations that have a lot of money and that can manage that education well. That's what we're really worried about. The search is also a bit of how we get those schools, those educational institutions, in the picture. That's one way to deal with that problematic behavior. This is also covered by the task force, under the approach we are adopting. That's one example. The other example is indeed about the alternative offer, let me say. We often hear from parents: we want to teach our children Islamic weekend education and this is the only offer there is. That is, then, the extremist variant of it. Can we create an alternative offer? The tricky point is always: we are concerned about these schools where this extremist idea is being taught or we can limit it to one religious movement. The answer is, of course, no. Then you have to do it for all shapes and then again the question is whether that is doable, whether that is feasible and whether it is proportional. That remains a quest. Our idea is that such a generic monitoring of informal education is not a passable route, but that we should continue to look at the examples we encounter in practice, the services we encounter in practice, which we are concerned about, so that we can intervene more specifically. Here I was expecting some interruptions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u279	Yes. Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u280	I have a very long answer here, but I am going to repeat the letter of 10 December. I don't think that's gonna make you happy, and neither do I. This is the search for how we can give these hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u281	Okay. Then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u282	I understand that the cabinet shares the concerns expressed by many parties in the Chamber about these organisations. The Minister is right to say that you cannot limit it to one religious movement. That seems to me all the more reason to pay attention to this. It doesn't seem like a very isolated problem. The most important argument I hear is actually the sloping plane argument: if we do this, we also have to look at... And then all kinds of things are added, up to the Young Democrats, where indeed nothing problematic happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u283	Well, yeah. I dispute that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u284	Yes. The question was, of course, actually addressed in the response of the ministers of OCW as well as now, in order to allow risk-oriented supervision, to create a title for supervision. This is quite similar to what is happening at the boarding schools, because there too the supervision does not seem to be the same as what the education inspection is doing or the inspection for youth care institutions. Then at least you have a title to watch, which allows you to enforce transparency and you know something more about what is happening there. Is that so obnoxious?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u285	It's okay, but the search is what your legal basis is. How do you delineate it and for which organizations do you apply it? At the boarding schools it was ultimately a safety issue a few years ago, because children slept there. That was the title to say: we must also monitor and inspect it. In the variety of informal training offered here in the Netherlands, this is very complicated to define. What title are you gonna do that for? I think Mrs Van Toorenburg had a point when she mentioned child abuse. This could be a title on which youth care or child protection could intervene. But even so, you're assuming a signal, a risk-focused signal. Then you have to hear: with that organization we are worried about that, and is that a reason to send the youth care services on that? This is something other than setting up a generic inspection of informal training that goes through all forms of informal training to see if it is true. Let's say it's a good thing. What if we started looking for what we could do? Mrs. Kuiken just said the same thing. Stand by to see which organizations we're worried about. And what titles do you have in order to intervene? We have already discussed this in the task force with a number of municipalities. So I would really like to take that search a step further and I would also like to inform the Chamber about it if we are a step further in that direction. So we're working on that. But that is a different approach, I say very black and white, then say: we are going to supervise informal education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u286	The minister asked, under what legal title do you do that? But that is exactly the question. Can't we create a legal title under which you do that? In addition, as the education inspector does, you don't have to go around every time. But you have to go to the institutions risk-oriented if you have the idea that there are reasons to worry. Then of course you're talking about a much more limited task. The reason for asking this is, among other things, that there has been a exploration of informal education. There have also been several motions tabled by my party, and the PvdA and the VVD also had a motion on this matter recently. But there is not really a reaction: this and this we would like to do. Above all, there will be a very long list of all kinds of objections and arguments that often appear to me. So perhaps it could give some perspective if the Minister could now give a concrete outline: this is what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u287	Maybe you're right that we've been a little defensive when it comes to giving a role to the education inspector. The reason for this, of course, has to do with the legal task and the definition. Because the education inspection plays a role in the funded education, that is to say, the education financed by the taxpayer. That's where the search is at the education inspector. It says: yes, it becomes very complicated to supervise all forms of training. I understand Mr Paternotte's point very well. Then we turn it around a bit, bearing in mind Mrs Van Toorenburg's remark and also Mrs Kuik's comment. What could be in those places we're worried about? I'd like to say I'd like to explore what might be a way of doing that. I'm going to explore that in the task force and also with the municipalities involved. However, it remains true that you need a legal title in order to be able to intervene in such cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u288	Finalizing, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u289	I would like to challenge the Minister to think outside the existing framework. He says that the task of the education inspector is not to do this. That's right: the education inspection has a completely different task. It is also, I think, totally incomparable to what is intended in any case my plea. But we often create new tasks that have something to do with supervision. Introduction education was privatized ten years ago. My party didn't agree with that, but there was a separate club, Blik op Werk, that was going to supervise that. If you say that we want a title to be created here and that there is supervision, then you have all the possibilities to designate someone or create something for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u290	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u291	Once again, I do not want to be defensive, but I am afraid Mr Paternotte thinks this is too simple. I would like to try to write that down for him, because we have had this conversation a number of times now. A number of times we have faced each other and I have been accused of being defensive. I share the concerns. I'm worried too. In the Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands of the NCTV also warns about it. So it's not like we don't see it. My colleagues are also concerned about this. The question is how to deal with it and how to combat it effectively. Just give us a minute to take a look at that. I do not think this is done through inspection of informal training. That seems to me to be an irrefutable road. But perhaps it goes through the more risk-oriented approach. What are we really worried about in practice? Can we get the task force there...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u292	I feel that we are going to get somewhere, because 'risk-oriented' was exactly the word we included in the motion we tabled in the debate on terrorism. On December 10th we received a letter saying: no. Now I feel: yes, we have to do something, but it's a search how. It may well be that due to the election recess or other reasons, the cabinet will be decommissioned, and I would like to hold on to this. I'd like to know when we can expect a response. I intend to table a motion, not out of mistrust, but to keep it on the agenda, because we must force ourselves to do so. When can we expect something and in what way? A "search" is a little too broad or too vaguely formulated, especially during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u293	I'll get back to you on that. I need to see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u294	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u295	Yes, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u296	Very good. That is also Mrs Becker's question, so the Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u297	Let's see if I've had it all. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u298	Then you can go online.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u299	Yes. Online is a complicated subject. If signals come to us, if asked to "help us with this organisation" and these are activities that are carried out online that are really inflammatory and such, then we can get started with it. Then there's just an actor who causes problematic behavior, so to speak. That fits within our normal structures. It is more complicated to distribute international videos over the internet, online, that have a sucking effect, so to speak. It's beyond our jurisdiction, beyond our sphere of influence. At European level, you could take steps, but it would turn out to be very complicated to be able to appeal to global platforms on this kind of content. Last week we saw an example of this with the President of the United States. This is a very complicated point on the overall supply side. When it comes to actors, we take it with us. If a municipality says "this organisation tries to bind young people through online activities or spread extremist ideas among this group," then we can start to do so and act on this through the three-track approach. The definition of "problematic behavior" is therefore also applicable on-line in practice, I say in the direction of Mrs Kuik. Mr Van Ojik asked about social media. It's really complicated to intervene on that. If you have the actor, if you know the organization that organizes things via Twitter or Facebook, you can do something with it. But in general, it is very difficult for us to intervene in response to signals coming from abroad. That is, of course, often the practice, unfortunately. These kind of films with a sucking effect come from unfree countries. Then it's mainly on the prevention side, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u300	A very short question. This also starts with whether we have enough image... We say, and I also read all the time: that is actually getting more and more important. Perhaps more important, I say, than the unwanted influence through direct funding. Do we have an idea of the extent and impact of such social media messages? Would it be possible to look at that more, regardless of what you're going to do next with the information you're picking up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u301	Maybe the co-workers from the Justice Department know that. Mr Dekker will deal with this in a moment. The next block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u302	Yeah, the resilience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u303	The resilience and the breeding ground. Mrs Becker rightly asked about the nationally validated approach, that evidence-based work and the reinforcement funds. We developed the Toolkit Evidence Based Works about a year and a half ago, together with the municipalities. I was allowed to reveal this in Delft with Mayor Van Bijsterveldt of Delft. The municipalities gain insight into training and knowledge, but also impact studies and evaluations are being carried out: what do we learn from this intervention that we have made when it comes to combating radicalisation? What does the scientific studies show and how can we apply this in other municipalities? This is really meant to learn from each other and to share that knowledge among the municipalities. That toolkit is linked to the reinforcement funds, which are on the Justice and Security budget. Municipalities need to evaluate activities that cost more than €100,000 as part of these reinforcement funds, so that we can also have other municipalities learn from these pilots and the evidence-based policy approach. Municipalities make frequent use of this. They automatically evaluate their own approach, so we learn more and more about what really works in practice. Since 2020, the NCTV has adapted the benefit system of these reinforcement funds, allowing the Empire to impose conditions on the policy and spending area, as requested by your Chamber. I believe that that request was in the Becker motion. Isn't that right? Yes. This will also enable us to increase effectiveness and efficiency. The NCTV will take a closer look at effectiveness in the 2020-2021 monitor. The NCTV monitors that and communicates about it. So the Chamber gets information about that. Then there's the resilience agenda. Several MPs have asked for this. We are currently working on that broad resilience agenda for the period 2021-2025. We do this together with all kinds of stakeholders in the social domain, including the departments, the municipalities, the communities and scientists. It is about living together, equal opportunities, participation, self-determination, discrimination, but also prevention and radicalisation, which I was just talking about. All that has to come together in that resilience agenda. We're working it out right now. We are looking for different ways to actually arm communities themselves against extremist behavior, drivers or people who are trying to buy influence. This includes, for example, the professionalisation of the mosque board. In his first term, Mr Azarkan gave an example of what happened in Rotterdam-Zuid, such as "we have the feeling that the administration is being taken over by extremists, how can we put the "old" administration in a position to defend itself and allow the moderate forces to win?" What was achieved there, we try to achieve more often. A number of questions have been asked about the imam training.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u304	Let's talk about the resilience agenda. That sounds very nice, of course. It is also in the Minister's budget. He says he's busy with that right now. Can he make it a little more concrete? Is there gonna be extra money? Are there any officials coming to do that? Is it being monitored? Is there going to be a progress report? How are we supposed to see that? Can he answer my first-term question as to whether he wants to focus the resilience agenda not only on the Muslim community, but also on people who are on the front line of freedom, think about professionals such as journalists and teachers who have to deal with it? How can we support them? Could part of the resilience agenda focus on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u305	Let's think about it, because it's in a different block. One part of the approach to the resilience agenda is conflicting freedoms, such as freedom of expression and freedom of faith. We often have to deal with the professions that Mrs Becker has just mentioned. Among other things, it is the journalists and cartoonists who often have a lot to do with this. The purpose of this is indeed more respect for those who disagree, and more respect for those who are professionally involved in society. That should also be included in the resilience agenda. Here too, the resilience must be increased. The agenda is for the period 2021-2025 and should be finalised in the coming months. I'm gonna ask you when we can send it to your room. Then imam school. That is, of course, a long-standing wish from your Chamber, but also from various cabinets. I believe that this has already started in the Balkende IV cabinet, and I would also like to look at Mrs Van Toorenburg, but unfortunately an imam training programme is not just to stamp out the ground. In recent years, however, a lot of time and care has been devoted to developing what is then called "a supported imam training" in collaboration with the communities. After all, you can have an imam education, but if the people who get off can't find a job, then you train those people for nothing. That would be a shame. The contours of this new training are now complete and for that much support has indeed been found, but also much commitment in the communities themselves. Much has been said about this, for example with mosque authorities. Under the current conditions of accreditation, funding and the available resources.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps that is the case before, if that is possible, also in view of the current circumstances we are in. During the transition period, we will offer training programmes for the sitting imams in the Netherlands, called the PIN, also to the imams who come from abroad, who provide them with training and care, especially to increase the relationship with the Netherlands and the western society, so to speak. I believe that every country should have its own imam training, but we must work with other countries. I have also recently been in contact with my German and French colleagues. These ideas also exist in these countries and are being tried to boost them. It may be possible to work together on this. That is what we are going to continue with in the coming period. Mrs Becker also had a question about an employment permit for imams. An employment permit for an imam "spiritual operator" is the term "spiritual operator" can be granted because it is examined whether imams are present in the Netherlands or in Europe. This is an agreement laid down in laws and regulations applicable to spiritual predecessors. This also fits in with the nature of the work, because the fulfilment of a job for a predecessor, an imam, is different from that for a regular workplace. The motion that has been tabled and held would lead to a change in the current regime. This also affects other spiritual predecessors, because you cannot distinguish between imams and other spiritual predecessors. Mr Paternotte asks why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u306	My question was actually about the following. The whole idea is that if there is no priority offer across the EU, then I understand that you are giving an employment permit. That offer does not arise because we do not have imam training where enough people go. Why aren't there enough people going to imam school? Because we're still giving employment permits. That's how you keep reasoning in a circle. What I asked for is to stop the employment permits after an x-number of years once the imam training is there. So not tomorrow, but after a transitional period. Then we also offer a perspective when we say that it is really necessary for people to take advantage of this training. That was my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u307	I'm gonna check on the backup. I think there is a separate legal obstacle to this, because the spiritual predecessors are excluded from it in a European... I shall come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u308	Second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u309	In the second term. There are already three things I will come back to in second term. I think that was my last point. Mrs Becker's last question was about my position in this debate. I do not want to do entrapment so at night, because we have had a long day, but last Monday I indeed published in Trouw an opinion piece on what I think: how should the integration debate be designed in the coming years? The 'integration debate' is an old term; I would now like to call it the'social debate'. In recent years I have found that we are stuck in some sort of groove. I think that we have actually stuck too much in the debate of the years around 2000. Mr Scheffer wrote a very interesting article at the time. That was quite right at the time, but in my view we have been stuck in it too much. What I see in that is that it's very, very much a we-they-thinking. We may have seen that again in this debate today. It is very polarized, so the flanks constantly determine this debate. Mrs Van Toorenburg said it too. As a result, 80% of those in the Netherlands think they are looking at this: what is this about, because this is not about me, my life or my country. I'd love to take a serious look at problems. That's a bit like I've been trying to fill out my wallet in recent years. Because there are problems, whether it is this type of problematic behavior, Islamic problematic behavior or extreme right-wing problematic behavior. But even when it comes to integration in this area, we are really getting too bad results, and when it comes to what does work in combating discrimination in the labour market and what helps to overcome labour shortages, is it a question of taking an evidence-based, practical approach and staying a little away from the question of "when is someone well integrated?" or "when are you a participant in the Netherlands?'. Why is that so important to me? Because I've heard that a lot in my work visits and conversations over the past few years. Young people said: I was born in the Netherlands, I finished my education, but I still have a Turkish-Dutch or Moroccan-Dutch background and I just don't get in the way. That discrimination is still there, and there is still the question of origin. I would love it if we could judge people by their individual behavior, when we look at their individual performance and participation in society, when we come out of group thinking. I don't want to say that there are no problems. That's a constant search. That's where I try to find the balance. That's how I've been trying to fill out my position. I have done so, Mrs Becker, very consciously. I have chosen this very consciously at the beginning of my period as minister, because I think such a "what is integration?"-debate is a hopeless route. That leaves you with the question of when someone has passed or not. I don't believe in that. I've made this choice consciously. I'm almost at the end of my period, so I hope I'll end up going into the books as someone who's done a few things right and done a few things wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u310	A passionate plea from the Minister. Let me make it clear that I have never argued that the Minister should say here all day when someone is well integrated and when someone is in or out. However, I have called on him to have certain issues, such as free society, which I believe the Minister of Integration should take a stand on, especially if there are really wrong images of them in certain sections of the population at a very small core. He has to come forward with this, because every day that teacher, that journalist and all the other people who have to do it on the work floor, feel supported by it. My question was whether the Minister agrees with that. In order to avoid a second interruption, I have asked one more question to which I do not think I have received an answer. A while ago, together with Mr Segers, I tabled a motion that the Minister should discuss integration grants which are actually countering integration. We have seen overviews where certain municipal subsidies turn out to end up with the Grey Wolves. Well, I do know that's not an organization that you can immediately pin down. That's what the minister's gonna say, but has that motion been carried out? Did that conversation with the VNG take place? Can we help municipalities not to support any more unintentional wrong sentiments with money after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u311	I have indeed spoken about this with a number of mayors, not with all the municipalities, but with a number of mayors, as a result of your motion. It's always three answers. One. This is local jurisdiction. Get your hands off that. I understand that very well, also from democratic legitimacy. The second answer is: of course we are not going to grant subsidies to, for example, the Grey Wolves. The discussion that arises locally is that an organisation has links with organisations with which we have problems, so to speak. If that happens, local corrections will be made, in the local debate, in the council. At least, I've been told that by a number of mayors. In practice, they have experienced that this is how it works. We don't have any financing structures. We do not give earmarked money to municipalities to implement this policy. So it's really a local responsibility. The first question, if I agree, was more interesting to me. Yes, I fully endorse that. I also understand very well what you're saying. I also understand very well that the teacher who had to go into hiding in Rotterdam because of threats must hear from the government: we stand for your freedoms and your rights and you will be protected. You're damn right I didn't. In recent years, as a Member of Parliament but also in my first period as a minister, I have noticed that the debate is often not about the teacher who needs protection or about the people who need recognition. That is the 80% I was just talking about, the professional says: yes, but I really do have a problem here and I do not recognize myself in that we are debating them. That's what I've been trying to shape. I believe that an abstract debate being held here on the Muslims and on the Islam or, on the other hand, on Urk and what we see at the SGP distracts us from what 80% of the Netherlands are doing, namely the problems they are seeing in the workplace, which they want to do something about and for which they want to contribute to a sensible solution. That's how I've been trying to fill it out, because of everything I've seen in the last few years. In the first debate in the committee, Mrs Becker was there too, and we think: if people are watching this debate, what is going on with them? Are we gonna take this one step further? That's why I did it. I understand very well what Mrs Becker is saying, but I deliberately chose another way, because I think that drivers should also try to bridge between those groups rather than throw oil on the fire to spark the fire. That is not always the intention, but often the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u312	Finally, you promised me that this would prevent a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u313	Yeah, finally. You are right, but the Minister is still triggering me, because he wrote in his article that we should talk less and do more. I couldn't agree more. He says the people on the work floor are just waiting for action. Can he now reflect on these important issues because we are now at the end of this cabinet period? The mosque funding we went to explore at the beginning of the cabinet period and we now find out that we are going to explore something more. On informal education, Mrs. Kuik and I have held a motion. That's what the cabinet said: we've explored it and we're not gonna do it. Now we have a debate and now the Minister says: I want to explore it. These are very important issues that people are very concerned about. Does the Minister agree with me that a little more decisiveness should be allowed to be formulated with caution? This also applies to the feeling that people in society have in this regard. Because people who are watching this today say, they're all really saying what I'm worried about, but I don't really have the confidence that they're going to do it. I wish we could do it. Does the Minister share that feeling with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u314	I do not agree with that in essence. In recent years, we have been able to take a lot of steps in this area, and we have developed a lot of concrete actions to tackle this problem. It did indeed start by sharing the notes verbales, the signals from the embassies, and by making the funding transparent. Last month, Mr Dekker tabled his bill to make money flows transparent. The adjustment of BW 2:20 is already through. We've set up a task force. We have already helped an x-number of municipalities to shape this better. We didn't have any at the beginning of this cabinet period. Then we had this debate and then we said: we are worried about it, but we do not have any instruments for it. There was also a bit of the feeling: we look at each other; who picks this up? The feeling was also a bit that the other person was responsible each time. I am proud, however, that in this area too, we are not talking, but we are cleaning up steps to make this concrete, to set up a task force, to share the signals and to help municipalities concretely with the problems they see in practice. Could we have done more? Sure, I'll say right away. Did this take a long time? Yes, I say immediately. We have explored and examined two or three variants of funding and each time it got stuck with legal problems, demarcation problems and that sort of thing. But we have made good progress. I'm proud of that. Could we have moved on? Sure. Could we have achieved more? I'm sure. Yet I look back with some pride, especially on the integration law, which has almost been adopted Chamberwide, with 145 votes in favour. I think that is a very nice step forward; we have managed to achieve that. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u315	I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for his initial contribution. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I personally consider this to be a very complicated subject, but above all a very important one, because it is essentially about the protection of our rule of law and our freedoms, as laid down in the Constitution. It is a joint task to make sure that people feel free and safe in this country, not just as a government, but also together with municipalities and their inhabitants. We prefer to find each other at a very early stage, preventive, but if necessary we must also be able to act, repressive. Let me say first of all that anti-democratic organisations or people who deliver a message based on intolerance and undermining our rule of law must be able to be tackled. Of course, we live in an open society, where there must be a lot of room for a lot of different views and opinions, including opinions that may not correspond to yours. And yet we cannot be unlimited tolerant to intolerance, because we know that ultimately destroys that open society. How we do that is another task. If you want to operate under the rule of law, it is important that, if you draw lines, you do so carefully and allow the rule of law to do its job. In order to protect our open democratic society, the Cabinet has therefore set up the pathways to tackle criminal behaviour, but also problematic behaviour and unwanted influence. We have also taken a number of concrete steps. I want to do it so that I start with the themes that are really right on my plate. This concerns in particular the civil law approach to this whole, including the transparency laws; BW 2:20. I will say a few words about the alternatives that we see in the future, along with what Wouter Koolmees has said, in order to be able to act where money is being misused. Then I have two subjects that are somewhat more on the agenda of my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus. They are about how to act against hate images and extremist speakers and the question of what to do online. My responsibility concerns, among other things, the civil law approach. What I want to achieve with this is, among other things, the transparency of money flows and an effective approach where necessary. If that is not enough, there is the third stage in the three-stage rocket that Mr Koolmees has just referred to, namely banning organisations. That last step is also the most far-reaching measure. The possibility to dissolve organisations in the event of a purpose or activity contrary to public policy is regulated in the adaptation of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code. That is an extreme means that you do not use lightly, of course. I think we had a good debate about it in this Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether it was also intended to be used towards salafistic organisations. Yes, where they are structuralally inciting hatred, intolerance, discrimination or even violence, it can also be used. I am therefore pleased that this bill has received broad support in your Chamber. It's across the street now, in the First Chamber, for treatment. Hopefully it will deal with it quickly, so that the law can enter into force this year. Step 2 is, as reported by Mr Koolmees, that we need to take more steps to understand the flow of money to civil society organisations. In November, the Civil Society Organisations Act was submitted to your Chamber. By introducing a mandatory state of income and burden for foundations and depositing them, the Omtzigt/Lodders motion is also implemented. The Chamber has recently reported on this in writing, just before Christmas. At the moment, my ministry is working very hard to answer your questions. We are going to discuss this in greater detail later on, but I can say a few things about it. Everyone noticed it in the little interplay debate with Mr Azarkan on this: the Council of State indeed had fundamental criticism of an earlier version of the bill. But we have just taken advantage of the advice of the Council of State to make the bill more targeted and adapted. Actually, that's been going through a development. I very much sympathize with what Mr Van Ojik has said about this. He asked: shouldn't you ask all civil society organisations to make donations above a certain amount transparent? That's how I started with the assignment in the coalition agreement three years ago. However, what I encountered quite quickly was that a lot of charities warned about it and said that the problem lies only with a limited number of institutions in the Netherlands. You want to know something about that. But if you do this, they said, the consequence is that scientific institutions, cultural institutions and other forms of charity are affected by this. There are a lot of people who give generously in this country. There is also generously given from abroad, by people who sometimes still have a connection with the Netherlands. If you make all that public, you run the risk of people saying they want to make a donation, but don't want their names in the papers. That can be from a privacy point of view; should anyone know exactly which charities you have a warm heart for? But sometimes it's also for security reasons; should everyone know how much money you have? I took that warning to heart. Then we looked at the bill that went to the Council of State and said: let us ask all these civil society organisations not to throw it out on the street, but to deposit it in the confidential register of the Chamber of Commerce. Of this the Council of State said: that too is not entirely proportional, because you ask a lot of organizations, which are not so terribly involved, to submit it. That's when we figured out that, of course, it's all about getting that information where it's relevant and where you're worried. This is in the case of a limited number of institutions. That has resulted in the bill as it stands. It gives the power, not only to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also to mayors, to request intelligence. Of course there must be a reason for this, but it is very low-threshold, where there can be a risk in the context of public order. What do you have to think about? It may mean that there are signs that young people are getting or getting into a weekend school that they have to turn their backs on Dutch society or that they have to blot out other believers. Or think of women suddenly being treated differently in a community. These are signals on the basis of which a mayor can ask what is going on and take a first step in the information demand for donations and possibly money from abroad. If there is sufficient reason to think that something is going on, if, for example, it turns out that there are indeed high amounts, or amounts from countries that you would suspect more, then he can ask the follow-up question to make it completely transparent. I think this is the way, and also an important first step, to gain much more insight into the funding of those organisations that we are concerned about. Then the question is: how do you deal with that money if there is indeed donations and if things happen to it that you do not want to do so? My colleague, Mr Koolmees, has just said that we have looked very carefully at whether we can come up with a list, a category of countries in which you would actually say, on the basis of reciprocity or lack of freedom, that we do not want any money from it at all. For all kinds of reasons, you know the opinion of the Council of State, we come to the conclusion that this is simply very complicated and not going to fly. But I still see possibilities. I'm not saying it's gonna work, but I'm very motivated to explore that extensively, actually along two ways. On this point, too, the Council of State's report does provide some pointers. First of all, a European approach. We are looking at how, with fellow countries, we can drive as much as possible towards greater transparency. If you then see any undesirable financial links, you can also act more together against them. Secondly, the Cabinet is examining further ways of achieving a more targeted and effective approach at national level. So that's something other than a generic approach. We opt for a more individual, organizational approach. I believe that this might work, because that is also the approach we are now adopting to the law on transparency. What do you have to think about? In fact, I am thinking of the same public order concept that is central to both 220 years old, but that is the most extreme form of the law and the law, in which it is the crochet for transparency. So that is not the criminal route, but the civil route, with an appeal to law and order. Then I will go to the questions that lie more on the premises of my colleague in the Justice Department. They're now calling for him to be there. However, he had to twist himself in all sorts of turns. We came to the conclusion together that I am sufficiently capable of doing so, at least I hope to be able to do so, but you should only look at it as an examination to provide you with good answers. The understandable question has been asked as to what we can do against hate images and extremist speakers. It is perhaps a good thing to point out, when it comes to hate images from abroad that have been invited, that there have been a number of significant interventions in recent years. As of 2015, nineteen persons were refused access to the Netherlands for inciting hostility or violence. The estimate is that many more people didn't come to the Netherlands eventually, because they knew they didn't come in, or because they didn't get an invitation from Dutch organisations, who have become more critical. The second is that under the Temporary Act administrative measures can be taken to combat terrorism in a number of targeted restrictive measures. Think of a land ban, a restraining order or a reporting obligation. In the past seven people have been subject to measures under the law: five times a reporting obligation, two times a land ban and two times an exit ban. One person has been given a restraining order. Then there was the question about the recent case where the judge destroyed Imam Fawaz Jneid's restraining order. It is equally good to point out here that it concerns the ruling on the fifth and sixth renewal of that ban. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, is currently considering whether to appeal. He's got a couple of weeks left to do that. He would like to do so in conjunction with a number of other things that are going on. For example, the person concerned has appealed to the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State for the second to fourth renewal. There is also a case before the European Court of Justice. He would like to look at this in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u317	Minister, one moment. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u318	I have a simple question for the Cabinet to inform us about how things are going with that thinking. Our second request is to see what we're going to do online. Of course, there is also a big problem there. We've asked for a digital area ban before. We didn't get that back then. That was a few years ago, a year or two, three, I think. I think it's time to take another serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u319	The first is to ask my colleague. I think he would certainly like to inform you in writing as soon as he has made a decision. I'm going to go into more detail online later. It also touches on a question that Mrs Van Toorenburg asked. You can see some kind of waterbed effect. You give someone a restraining order for Schilderswijk and Transvaal and then he goes somewhere else. I don't think you can fully prevent that. There's no easy solution to this kind of thing. It is constantly pressing on the places where it comes up, constantly inventing new instruments. My colleague has just indicated that we have a whole palette of instruments and ways of chasing these kinds of figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u320	Still, a follow-up question from Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u321	I'd like to come back to that digital area ban. I can pick up the glove myself and with colleagues who also want to sit down with all the experts around the table to see if we can make a move in that. I think that's really important. I think it is really worth it if the cabinet, in whatever form, is stuck around the table with officials and says: we are in a new phase, digital is becoming more and more physical, or just the other way around; let's just really get into that. This is true not only in relation to radical preachers, but also in relation to a broader palette. Let's pick up that glove together, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u322	I'm certainly willing to do that, just like my colleague. I'm gonna go into it a little more extensively later. The digital area command actually assumed that you are taking preventive measures that prevent someone from doing anything on the Internet. That is quite contrary to many things: censorship bans, freedom of expression and so on. But of course there is a lot of extremist content on the internet. Sometimes it's a crime. That's actually the easiest variant. Often it is not punishable, but it is problematic. I can see that all too well. I'm also really willing to think about what we can do there. The solutions will not be easy. They're easy where there's criminal behavior. You noticed that a little bit about the struggle, too. I fully share them, including my colleague Koolmees. Both online and in the physical world, it is always struggling with the question of what you do with undesirable behavior that is problematic, but not punishable. It will be on the Internet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u323	I'd like to interrupt one last time. Then I don't have to do that right now. I know what the Minister's saying. If there is already criminal behavior or a physical ban, it would help if you could say: digitally you have nothing to look for on certain platforms or certain gremia that are normally your own. You don't say, "You're never allowed on the Internet again." But you can say, you just can't do certain expressions. If you worked that out in addition to criminal behavior or a ban imposed by a judge, that could already be an important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u324	Of course, criminal behavior and criminal expression must never be allowed, so you do not have to take concrete action on that. Where it's more generic, this goes really far. The idea of these bans, also on the basis of that temporary law, is that they are particularly targeted. The judge is now testing this very hard, because he is very deeply concerned about fundamental rights. Such a person is forbidden to enter certain parts of The Hague. That's very understandable. I do not go into individual cases, but that must be very well substantiated. But when you say to someone like that "you can't go on the Internet anymore," I suspect that's gonna come up with a lot of problems and lots of bumps. At the time, this was also the discussion about a preventative digital area ban. I haven't been there myself. At that time, I had the impression that a large majority in your Chamber saw that that was complicated. You've filed a motion on it. I think that motion didn't make it. That doesn't mean I don't care. This just happens more and more in the digital domain. However, we must look for proportionate instruments that we can use. Mr. Chairman. I have something on the visa procedure. It was asked on the basis of which someone...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mrs Becker has another interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u326	Yes, because I had also asked if the cabinet would at least engage with hosting providers and bigtech platforms. They also have something to say about what they offer on their platforms and what content they allow. The Minister says that it may be complicated to get involved as a government with its own instruments. But in consultation with those providers and bigtech platforms, we might be able to do more. Can the Minister promise that he will carry out that exercise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u327	We are always willing to talk to everyone about this. In fact, we also work with these platforms in terms of criminal content. Think, for example, of child pornography. Think of terrorist content. Then you also have a title to make sure that is deleted. The tricky thing here is, of course, that it is often about content that we call unwanted or problematic that is just not punishable. As a government, you have to be careful how you intervene in it. Now there are a number of things going on. Both within the Council for Europe and within the Commission, consideration is being given to what can be done about these forms of hate speech. You could call it that. To what extent, for example, can you impose a certain liability on Internet platforms for the internal rules they apply? In recent times, of course, we have seen the question in another area when you put someone on black or block someone, so to speak. That discussion is now actually taking place around the Digital Service Act. There is a proposal from the Commission. As a Dutch government, we are in the process of formulating a response to this. Those are the ways we are looking at now. It is not about criminal content, but rather about other forms of unwanted content and the question what you could do about it. I will come back to the subject a little more extensively online anyway. Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to end the physical world. I was talking about the area bans. There was also a question about banning extremist speakers. How does that work and how does this trade-off take place? In the direction of Mrs Becker, I would like to say that, of course, we have also started work on the Yeşilgöz motion. That motion calls for other Member States to be included in our way of working. We certainly do. The process on the basis of which access to the Netherlands can be denied follows a number of steps. Firstly, the NCTV makes an alert list of extremist speakers who are subject to a visa requirement. That is a list that should ensure that the Dutch posts start to ring a bell at an early stage. A foreign preacher from a visa-free country who is known to have conveyed or still transmit unbearable, anti-integrative or anti-democratic messages shall be placed on that alert list. But entry on that alert list does not automatically mean that a visa application is always refused, because it is a rather broad list. There is also a need to keep up with the current situation. There is also a need for further scrutiny, as this is the basis on which a visa can be refused on issues such as national security and public order. The IND receives advice on this matter from the safety services and then makes an assessment. Then, if necessary, it may refuse a visa application. Mr. Chairman. This was the personal approach, but we have also been asked how we deal with organisations that pose a threat. Salafist organizations were asked for, but also for the Muslim Brotherhood. Besides, there's also a sadness, isn't there? In the event of a violation of the law, the role of the government is clear. Then it's a matter of maintaining and punishing. This means that if the security services see reason to do so, they may issue a notice of office to the Public Prosecutor's Office. On that basis, the Public Prosecutor may initiate a criminal investigation. If there are offences from a Salafist organisation, then this can be dealt with. It is more complicated with more insidious processes such as undermining the democratic rule of law or damaging relations between citizens and thus social stability. The approach will therefore have to be changed in these areas as well. The whole approach to problematic behavior, which my colleague has just mentioned, with such a task force can run through the trits and through the civil law approach. That's what I was just talking about in the transparency line: where are you getting your money from? Hopefully there will also be a second stage, because we will be able to combat this more effectively with legislation. The third step is of course BW 2:20. In any case, we endorse the concerns expressed by NCTV on an annual basis in its threat assessment. These are in particular the concerns that have been taking place for a long time about the steady construction of a salafistic infrastructure and the extension of the influence on the Dutch Muslim community by, among other things, the spread of unbearable ideas by political-salafist drivers. In doing so, we focus on what concerns are greatest. So we are not focusing on the Salafist spectrum as a whole, but above all on those parts of the Salafist movement where there is criminal and or problematic behaviour from the perspective of the democratic legal order to be protected. Am I prepared to investigate the Muslim Brotherhood? The threat picture also says a few things about that. The intelligence and security services indicate that the core of the Muslim Brotherhood in our country consists of only a limited number of people and that the influence in the Netherlands is therefore limited. Nevertheless, the cabinet is closely monitoring developments in relation to this organisation. Mr President, from the physical world to the online world. Once again, criminal law is the easiest approach. The Public Prosecutor's Office may act when statements on the Internet are threatening to persons; when there is an incentive to hate, discrimination, violence; when there is sedition to the commission of criminal offences or when expressions are aimed at recruiting for armed combat. It is always considered that this is the essence of the assessment of that criminality, which relates to the tension between the content of the message on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other. That's easy. It becomes more complicated when there is not per se criminal behavior, but problematic behavior. We see that a lot. Mrs Becker asked: could you give the authority childpornographic and terrorist content a role in this? That authority is being set up following the initiative of my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus. That is complicated, because that authority is a body that must and can intervene, above all, where there are obvious offences. In the case of child pornography, that is quite obvious, although there is always an assessment to be made. Terrorist content ditto. We will really have to look for other possibilities for problematic behavior that falls within the limits of the law. What do you have to think about? That Digital Service Act I was just talking about. Internationally and in Europe, when it comes to terrorist content, we have much more room for manoeuvre, for example the Internet Referral Unit, which can identify extremist content and then register with Europol, with the request to have it removed. When it comes to other forms, we must also work together with the Internet sector to see how we can effectively combat that content. Then there was a specific question: what to do with online fundraisers for families of travellers? Then we're dealing with criminal offences. If there are indications of financing terrorism, the Public Prosecutor's Office may look for leads for a criminal investigation. Moreover, within the FEC programme, the financial networks of well-known persons and entities associated with terrorism and other relevant persons and entities, such as family members in the first and second degrees, are also mapped. This gives more insight into these networks, which allow the Public Prosecutor's Office to determine whether or not there is a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. Then an interruption awaits me, I see, but I'm as good as out of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u328	I'm happy about that. Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u329	Thank you for saying: "I want to look with the internet sector to see how we can tackle the problem of problematic behaviour, even if it is not always punishable. We do think it is desirable that we can do something with that." But at the same time I hear him refer to the Digital Services Act. That is all in the European domain. I would like what we do in the physical world ourselves in the Netherlands, with the Task Force Problematic behavior, to come online. I have made a suggestion for an authority, but it may also be another authority of mine. The Netherlands itself must have the feeling: I am going to take that signal from the AIVD seriously in order to better monitor that content in the Netherlands and to intervene more on it, even if it is not directly about terror, but about matters that we are concerned about. Is the Minister prepared to take this as a government in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u330	I have to make a move there, because this is partly on my colleague's territory. I also wonder which approach is most effective. In the physical world, you can do very concrete interventions. You just say to someone "you won't get into the Netherlands" or "you won't get into parts of The Hague." Of course, that's really different on the Internet. The Internet has no boundaries and that means that often the place from where it is streamed or the content is made available is not in the Netherlands, whereas it involves e.g. messages aimed at Dutch young people or people who are otherwise receptive to it. We have to see what is the most effective way to do this. I am a little afraid that if you only take this approach within the Netherlands, you simply have less power than when you act in Europe with all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u331	There is another question from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u332	At the same time, I think it is crazy to say that there will be an independent authority, but it can only intervene if there are clear criminal offences. You don't need an independent authority for that. That's what a D.A.'s office is for, to name one thing. Apparently, we are looking, through that independent authority, for an authority that can take a step more or that can take a step more, before there is a clear case of criminal offences. At least, that's what I'd think. Now we have the undesirable situation that Twitter and Facebook decide for themselves who they want to throw off their networks. We don't want that. But if we can only intervene if something is clearly punishable, we can leave it to the Public Prosecutor to say it in a schematic fashion. I think it is precisely this intermediate form of anti-democratic expression in any form that may not be clearly punishable, but we do not want them to appear online and have any impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u333	At the same time, that is very complicated. I think you still need that authority because you don't just want the D.A. to investigate and possibly prosecute. With a lot of this content you want it to be deleted as soon as possible, so quick removal. If it has been constantly waiting for a public authority to notice that there is something illegal on the Internet and that it is only then that it will be removed, that is far less appropriate than when it is done with certain platforms, which makes it much faster. That is the commitment of my colleague Grapperhaus to, for example, child pornography, to removal as soon as possible. You can also check whether the storage of this material on servers can be addressed as soon as possible, even if those servers are in the Netherlands. It is then about the swift removal of that content in addition, of course, to the criminal investigation that the Public Prosecutor is carrying out. The problematic content, which we are talking about here, lacks criminal law. The D.A.'s office has no role there. Then there is the immediate question of what the legal title is to intervene and what you can do. I think we all just haven't figured that out yet. We need to talk about this with companies and with Internet platforms. We also need to keep thinking about how to prevent censorship and restrict freedom of expression, because of course you are also dealing with fundamental rights here. What role do you want to play as a government and what role do you leave to Internet platforms? That is a broad debate, which I know several parties in this House are rather different about. We will continue to look for this, but solutions will not be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u334	I thank the Minister for his input. That means he's gonna collect his stuff quietly and get cleaned up. The Foreign Minister will then speak. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the Committee of Inquiry into Unwanted Effect. I too have followed the hearings and read the report with interest, but also with care. The images and findings were in line with previous reports from among others the AIVD and the NCTV. But especially when it appears in the form of hearings, that makes it very vividly visible how people can feel pressured. That was and is the reason for the cabinet to take the necessary measures in recent years, and today we are debating further steps. I will deal with the international side of that. As the Chamber knows, in recent years we have asked for clarity in the contacts with a number of countries about funding from those countries towards fundamentalist Islamic organisations in the Netherlands. That actually started in the time of my predecessor Koenders, and since then my diplomats and myself have continued that line. In this context, there are intensive contacts with Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. In a slightly different way, but equally intensive, there are contacts with Turkey. Not mentioned here in the debate, but communicated with the Chamber very recently there was the intervention at the time when an employee of the Eritrean consulate was going to levy a form of tax. We also received complaints about coercion. This is typically an example where we have acted on unwanted foreign influence. The contacts with the four former countries, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates have led to regular sharing of information between the first two countries, and the other two countries have indicated that they also do not want funding flows to take place against the Dutch Government's wishes. In all four countries, I myself spoke to colleagues from those countries about this. The countries also indicate that what they can tell us or what they can influence are payments that they can also observe and influence, i.e. government payments. They report that these are countries with tens of millions of inhabitants together, and that they cannot therefore guarantee that they have an image of all contacts and money flows from those countries to the Netherlands, or perhaps via another country between them to the Netherlands. We have also explored this issue, and we are still working on it if we can establish it in a structural way. The information is now based on oral agreements and good will. However, we are faced with the dilemma that agreements on the exchange of information are always based on a form of reciprocity. Of course, we have agreements on information exchange in many areas, for example in the area of justice. In this respect, information on crime is being exchanged, or even agreements are being made on the exchange of suspects. Those agreements are, in fact, always based on a form of reciprocity. In the Dutch legal order, it is not allowed to collect and share information without a very urgent legal basis. So we can't actually offer anything on our part. It will therefore not be easy to lay this down in hard agreements. But once again, in these four countries, we do find a willingness at government level. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction, I will answer the questions in the order of the speakers who asked the questions. I shall begin with Mrs Becker's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u336	Before you begin, there is a question from Mr Van Ojik about your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u337	Yes. My question is precisely about the issue of reciprocity, which apparently now stands in the way of our making written agreements. This reciprocity is also contained in the coalition agreement. I'm sure the Minister will remember that. I noticed that when I looked into it again. We strive for transparency and "reciprocity is an important touchstone in this respect"; it is literally stated in the coalition agreement. I wonder what that means when the Minister says that we cannot make those agreements in writing, because then we must do so and our rules are against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u338	Reciprocity in the coalition agreement is about funding. The reciprocity I am talking about is the provision of information. I think Mr Van Ojik fully agrees with me when I say that both Dutch and European regulations have very strict frameworks, and rightly so, for the collection and processing of information by a government. We are happy to stick to Dutch and European legislation, but I think we also share the basis. We may come up with differences if we dig deep into them, but I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber would want there to be no rules for the collection and provision of data by a government. So there are. The cabinet is bound to do so when we conclude an agreement with another country. If that agreement concerns the exchange of data, it is something other than agreements based on good will, as it is now, where only that country says "I will provide data to the Netherlands." If you want to record that, we notice in practice, and that's not weird either, a country like this says: but what are you going to tell us? Then we must say: well, nothing, because in the Dutch rule of law we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u339	I understand, of course, what the Minister is saying, and I share that point of departure, but that does not remove my question of the exact meaning. The coalition agreement states that we are going to make money flows transparent. Among other things, the law we are talking about today is an expression of that. "Reciprocity is an important touchstone here." I sincerely wonder what that means in practice. The Minister says that this is about funding, not transparency. But what does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u340	That is actually the same question as the question that Mrs Becker and Mrs Van der Graaf, whom I no longer see but who is undoubtedly listening, asked me: how can you decide which countries to worry about and what to take action for? Can you make a list for that, can you use a criterion for that? That's what the government agreement is about. That is the question that is still before us. This is also an issue which the Council of State has addressed in detail in its opinion. Then a possibility that was explored by the government and which was then addressed by the Council of State is: could you use unfreedom as a criterion? In addition, you run into the fact that for example by Freedom House... That is a neat NGO, by the way. Mr Azarkan is not here now either, but I was a little surprised by his criticism of that. I think the Economist Intelligence Unit is doing similar investigations. So there are external bodies that make such an overview and they are just public. The adoption of countries on such a list by a country, in this case the Netherlands, as a basis for a legal act, namely the prohibition of a transfer, has great practical and legal consequences. This is something I pointed out last time I was allowed to have the debate with you, and not entirely surprisingly the Council of State also points out. There's a practical and a diplomatic side to it. The practical thing is: how do you decide, where do you draw the line? The diplomatic side is that countries on that list will react very firmly to that. This brings me to a balance which Mr Van Ojik has heard from me many times. If you want to take such measures, and there are good reasons for doing so in this case, see if you can do so with other countries. Then I come to the point I wanted to make in the light of Mrs Becker's first question, namely that the European route is obvious, as so often do. Instead of trying to define what a country is high on the list when it comes to restrictions of freedom, could you also apply another criterion, namely: is it a country that itself allows foreign funding to take place? That is another route, which brings me back to your question of reciprocity. That is part of the lack of freedom, but that is in itself very close to the measure you are looking for here. You actually say: if you are not allowed to transfer money from the Netherlands to a religious or social organisation in your country, it is difficult for you to object that we do not allow it in the Netherlands either. That's a morally logical argument. I see Mr Van Ojik nodding. Moreover, the Council of State points out that this route too is still legally very complex, because it must be practicable, even if it is morally logical. You are also outside Europe, especially within Europe, but certainly within Europe, against the free movement of capital. It is always allowed to make a transfer from Belgium to the Netherlands. If the Netherlands were the only country to make rules in this area and the other EU countries did not, then any money flow would come into the Netherlands via another EU country and would be allowed to do so. That's what the Council of State is pointing out. But, with all due respect to the Council of State, that is something that we ourselves could have come to through logical reasoning. All of this leads to the first question by Mrs Becker, which is indeed to be put to the full on the European route. The terrible recent attacks in France and Austria, however sad, have also given a tremendous boost to that debate. As the Chamber knows, the Prime Minister, Mr Grapperhaus and myself have also taken up this point directly with the European colleagues and said: 'We have once again had terrible attacks. In the Netherlands, we are discussing this complex area of acts and statements which are not punishable, but which may be the portal for criminal or terrorist acts. Would you like to explore with us how we can take action against this in a European context?" Fortunately, we have received a positive response from a number of countries. That could make you stronger on the diplomatic front, because you're not coming alone with a measure. But also the practical point of bypassing, the point that you can always get money within the Netherlands through the free movement of money within Europe, could be overcome in this way. Hence the full commitment of myself and the other colleagues involved to see now with other EU countries whether what you as the Netherlands alone cannot achieve can actually be achieved as an EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u341	Mrs Becker has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u342	If such a European approach is adopted, is the Netherlands' commitment that reciprocity will be an important criterion for testing for unfreedom, or do we, the Netherlands, think that other criteria should be used in a European context to determine whether there is any lack of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u343	For me, effectiveness is the crux. You want to combat the fact that here in the Netherlands funding is being made for people or organisations that may be undermining and ultimately exhibiting terrorist behavior. In the first talks I had with colleagues on this subject, we naturally face issues similar to those I have just discussed and mentioned by the Council of State. My own assessment is that reciprocity relates to financial flows and I turn once again to Mr Van Ojik, therefore, is more likely than a list of countries based on the broader concept of unfreedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u344	I, but also other speakers, have said that they do understand the position of this minister that there could not be an unfree list of countries with which the Netherlands says very staccato and rigidly: we declare these twenty countries unfree for the coming years. I understand the complexity behind that. The Minister says that we should look at a criterion such as reciprocity. I challenge him to apply a criterion principle if he wants to abandon the country principle. So we're going to name a number of criteria; I'm going to call that an index. If there is then problematic behavior, that is also the targeted approach chosen by the cabinet, then we can look at these criteria to see which source country is ultimately behind the financing of this problematic behavior. That is what we are putting down along the measurement of the lack of freedom indicators that we have established in the Netherlands, and then we say: yes, that is extra cause for concern, extra reason for supervision, extra reason for intervention. So not a rigid list of countries, but a list of criteria on freedom. Is the Minister willing to think with me about that? If the Netherlands itself has an image of this, then I think that can help to further that in Europe too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u345	Yeah, sure, that thinking about it is already happening. And not just think about it. Those conversations are taking place. We are still in the process early, but that is why I give the estimate that there will rather be support for what is going to happen anyway. I say it very flatter, more neutral concept of'reciprocity', because then you say: something that is not allowed in your country should not be allowed in our country either. This will be supported rather than the much more emotionally charged concept of 'we do not think your country is free'. That is simply a very practical assessment: what will we ultimately get the 27 countries into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u346	I'm afraid we don't fully understand each other. I therefore no longer advocate that the Netherlands should say 'we find your country unfree'. I merely advocate not to hang everything on the concept of "reciprocity." I believe that several criteria can be used to test a country. I would like to challenge the Minister to draw up such an index, which is what I call it, such a list of criteria that allow us to check countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u347	I'm not opposed to any more criteria. I just think that the Chamber should expect an assessment from me: what is most feasible, in my view? I'll give it to you. But it's not like I'm against other criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u348	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u349	Yes. I answered that question right away. Mrs Becker asked about the passage in our letter about campaign activities around the elections. It is the intention of the cabinet, and specifically of my colleague from the Interior and myself, to implement the proposed measure in the short term, i.e. within a few weeks. Mr Van Dijk, who is no longer among us, asked how we are dealing with the information we receive from the countries that provide us with information on applications for funding. Diplomatic information shall be provided in confidence. So I can only share it with the Chamber if I first asked the country that provided it if they were okay with me sharing it. I did ask that question, and then I could share that information. But if that question has never been asked, that goes back a whole number of years, we cannot unilaterally decide to provide information that the other country itself could not know in advance that it would be published. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Ojik asked whether we have the idea that the information we receive is complete. I have already indicated that the governments themselves state that they are giving us the information about the public institutions they have, but also that they are countries with millions of inhabitants and large numbers of organisations, on which they do not have a complete overview. We have to be honest about that, too. Then Mr Van Ojik asked if a new WODC investigation is needed. For the WODC research that you have recently received, I was probably co-responsible, because I indicated in the previous debate that if you want clarity about funding flows and unwanted influence, then you have to apply the old principle of "follow the money." It is very difficult to look at all transfers from a number of countries, because that is thousands a day. You need to start looking on the receiving side that you might be worried about. That is why Mr Dekker is bringing forward his bill on behalf of the cabinet. It allows you to see on the receiving side what's happening. That WODC research has also focused on the receiving side, but also notes that not everyone is equally enthusiastic about providing that information. That is all the more reason to come up with the bill that is now before us. I think it would be wise, in your warm interest, to recommend that bill and ask you to answer it quickly. I think that's gonna make more money than asking the WODC to do this investigation again. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Van der Graaf asked why countries, whether they are Gulf countries or, for example, Turkey, want to contribute to the provision of information. Well, because they, fortunately, appreciate the relationship with the Netherlands, for a number of reasons. Of course, it is our job to keep it that way. The foreign speakers of the Chamber know from me that I, specifically in the case of Turkey, I have just discussed the Gulf States, which have had many and often complex discussions, about things that bind us, but also very often about things that we simply do not agree on. For example, after the announcement of the start of weekend schools, I contacted my Turkish colleague and said: that is not prohibited in the Netherlands, but raises a lot of questions, so it would really help if we could agree on transparency. That has also been promised and put into practice. Then Mr Paternotte asked me, I hope I understood it so well, and otherwise he knows how to find the microphone and give a reflection on a total ban on funding from outside the EU to religious institutions. I have no overall overview, but I have a strong suspicion that within religions such as Jewish religion, Buddhism and Hinduism there will also be money flows from outside Europe to the Netherlands and Europe. A very large part of that is simply legitimate. This is covered by the freedom of religion and the free movement of capital. The requested legal status would be a complex one, because then you really go deep into fundamental rights. Then you really have to ask yourself if you think that's wise. More targeted methods, such as Mr Dekker's legislative proposal and the European route, are trying to reach an agreement in Europe on a reciprocal basis. I think, frankly, that is preferable to such a general and broad restriction on freedom of religion and capital movements. Mr Paternotte asked whether we were talking about Turkish influence at European level. Sure. I have already indicated that I am discussing this directly and openly with Turkey, but I am also discussing it with other European countries. In the EU, not all countries are equally affected. I think Germany is the most comparable country. That is the country with which we have the most frequent contact. This brings me straight to Mr Paternotte's question about how I look at Turkey's influence on people of Turkish nationality in the Netherlands. It is very common for a country to maintain contacts, even close contacts, with people with the nationality of that country in another country. In fact, I have regular debates with your Chamber, in which she instructs me to make contacts with Dutch people abroad more intense; think, for example, of voting and access to Dutch public services. That's also very legitimate. Of course, I understand the link that Mr Paternotte was going to make with pressure: if that means that pressure is being exerted along that route, there is unwanted influence. Then we'll act. I have already mentioned an example of this, because it has come out in the open. At the moment when an embassy employee starts collecting taxes or, what has played in Turkey, with the Diyanet members' list in his hand looking for Gülenaanhangers, we perform.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u350	The last thing the Minister mentioned is a good example. This also applies to the mosque in Almere, where it is true that'veto-terrorists are not welcome here', in which the Diyanet infrastructure plays an important role, to hunt down those hate images against gülenists. President Erdogan calls on Turkish Europeans to have more children, so that they are stronger as a group. A Turkish minister says: Turkey is your mother country. The president says they should go on vacation to Turkey, because then they get to know their homeland better. I can also cite the example that letters from the AK party were delivered to people at home to call them to vote for President Erdogan. If we add this together, you can say that it is not all very well compared to the long arm of The Hague, which is serving Minister Blok from his department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u351	No, but that is why I said: that a country maintains close contacts with people with the nationality of that country abroad is a logic that is also applied in the Netherlands. But we clearly draw a line where that becomes unwanted influence or pressure or where that is even contrary to the law. That is why I have given you examples of both Turkey and Eritrea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u352	Oh, thank God. Then, of course, my question is: if the Minister reads the report, how does he judge it? Does he know a country that has a more intensive diaspora policy in the Netherlands than Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u353	Well, along a scientific measuring bar, this question is not easy, but Eritrea has a very explicit policy. Also discussed in this Chamber and in public are the complaints of Uighurs in the Netherlands who experience pressure on themselves or on their families. There are therefore a number of examples of this in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u354	Finally, the question: did the report read, how does the Minister judge Turkey's influence in the Netherlands through the Turkish Presidency for Religious Affairs? Of course in addition to the pressure via mosques, the weekend schools, etc., as described in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u355	I am not only judging this, I am acting on it when it is in violation of the law, or contrary to what we find fit within diplomatic activities of the Turkish Embassy. But once again, there are also a number of examples in which they have also been acted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u356	Can the Minister go into the way in which they are acting a little more specifically when we continue to see that there are about 140 mosques so I understood mosques in the Netherlands just directly controlled from Ankara? That they decide what's said in mosques? That whole picture, a kind of free state of Turkey in the Netherlands, in our religious houses. What does the Cabinet do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u357	Well, that's what the Cabinet acts on if it violates Dutch law. I do not need to explain to Mrs Van Toorenburg that religious freedom in the Netherlands goes very far. So if there are cases in a religious house, in this case by an imam paid by Diyanet, then we do not necessarily have to agree, but the Dutch government can act if that is contrary to Dutch law and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u358	But I think it's a little easy. Because it's about more than just religion, and we know it. The committee has shown this very clearly. What kind of messages are being given there: political messages, weighting that are important in Turkey, comments that are being made that do not comply with our Dutch rule of law. With which it is indeed not crossed the line; then it was all bar and angry. But we can't just think: as long as it's fine, it goes on and on and we keep looking at it? Is there nothing the cabinet thinks at all: perhaps we should put some more pressure on and say that this should be over? Should we not try to act on this with other European countries in a different way? This is not a religious freedom as it is usually experienced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u359	It is important, however, to think further about the reasoning. Mrs Van Toorenburg now asks, let me translate: can the Dutch government intervene further in what is happening in religious institutions in the Netherlands? Then you come to the area of freedom of religion and freedom of speech. You can intervene on that, if there's a reason. That's what needs to be done. But Mrs Van Toorenburg also knows that we are dealing with very fundamentally protected fundamental rights, which means that we are running against borders very quickly. That is why, although we come up with a whole package of measures, these measures always weigh carefully whether they work and whether they stand up within Dutch and international law. It is not for nothing that we have asked the Council of State to think along these lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u360	I note that the Minister continues to insist that it is purely about religious freedom and that it is just fine for this cabinet that in the Netherlands political messages are being conveyed from Turkey by imams paid by Turkey. I am just sorry that not every turn, every possibility, is being examined, including at European level, to do a little more about it. Because it's not just religion; it's paid politics from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u361	Yet, Mrs Van Toorenburg formulates it very abstractly. We have already talked about the campaigning measure. But also political opinions that Mrs Van Toorenburg or I, or both of us, disagree with, do not give a government the right to intervene. It can't be a surprise if I say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u362	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u363	Mrs Van der Graaf asked about the possibilities of drawing up a list. I've just gone into that in detail. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about European commitment. That's what I've been working on. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u364	Thank you. I would just like to say to the Acts that Mrs Van der Graaf is in another debate. This is about the renovation of the Chamber and a possible move to a building on the Bezuidenhoutseweg. I say "possible" because no decision has yet been taken. We're moving on to the second term of office. I suggest we start with that right away. I'll give you a few minutes for that. That is a directive. I hope you will want to go in there, because then it may be possible to conclude the debate before the agreed closing time of 11 p.m. If you confine yourself to tabling motions and a brief reflection on the response, that would be helpful. First, Mrs Becker has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a plan today with ten proposals. I have five motions at the end of this debate. That's pretty good news, I guess. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that money flows from non-free countries can facilitate the abuse of our freedoms;]] [[noting that making money flows transparent is an important first step to make unwanted foreign influence visible, but a ban on that funding is desirable in order to effectively prevent harmful financing;]] [[calls on the Government to have early enforcement instruments available to freeze funds received, to prohibit organisations from receiving or forfeiting these funds in the event of undermining of our democratic values, fundamental freedoms and/or human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that problematic behaviour in relation to unwanted foreign financing is increasingly a problem for the free Dutch society;]] [[Considering that the Government has established the Tasforce Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Financing to support municipalities in addressing problematic behaviour, but that it has no legal definition of "problematic behaviour";]] [[considers that the task force is unable to intervene decisively in the event of problematic behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to explore how a clear legal definition of "problematic behaviour" can be defined so that the public can intervene for the benefit of citizens in cases of problematic behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that unfree thought is increasingly being spread online and that salafistic drivers are crowding out normal religious expressions online with extremist, antidemocratic and radical salafistic expressions;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with hosting providers and Internet platforms, to systematically counter these expressions and, if necessary, to use the administrative tools to do so;]] [[calls on the Government also to investigate the possibility of placing the approach of extremist, anti-democratic and radical Salafist expressions online with the authority to be established childpornographic and terrorist content or, where this is not possible, with another authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parliamentary research shows that there is a conscious financial strategy from non-free countries to enter the heads and hearts of Muslim communities in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the current approach to this is mainly to address these countries when problematic behaviour is detected;]] [[Considers that the extent to which a country is democratic and free can be a useful indicator of the extent to which foreign funding is at risk of undermining democratic order, the rule of law and/or human rights;]] [[Whereas, however, the Cabinet does not consider it desirable to draw up a list of non-free countries, but it is worth looking for an alternative such as an index of criteria;]] [[calls on the government to develop a non-free country index to address and objectively assess risks related to funding flows from non-EU countries to civil society organisations in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government also to make it possible to increase monitoring and to develop policies to impose conditions for receiving money from certain countries, for example for obtaining an anbi-status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Becker, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kuik and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-7]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u366	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employment permits are granted in the EU to imams from outside the EU because of insufficient training of imams within the EU;]] [[Whereas there is a risk of imams from outside the EU contributing to unwanted foreign influence and/or dissemination of undemocratic and unjust ideas;]] [[noting that imam training is being developed in mainstream higher education which, after a reasonable period of time, makes it unnecessary to allow spiritual operators from outside the EU, provided that sufficient use is also made of this training;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the establishment of training for imams in the Netherlands could be accompanied by a transitional period beyond which imams from outside the EU would no longer be eligible for an employment permit and, if necessary, to develop the option of adequate training within the EU, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an interesting debate to follow. I had not asked many questions myself, so there were no interruptions to the response of the ministers. I am, of course, satisfied with the answer in that all the questions raised by the Chamber are satisfied. What I also found interesting about the debate was that what I said as a historical part of my input in the first period was reflected in the input of a number of people. I did like to see that it confirmed my right. Not that I really want to be right, but it's funny to see how that works. I hear we don't make laws on religions in this Chamber. I don't want to. On certain ideologies, but not on religions. It's nice that the ideology I'm always talking about has made laws on all of you. It's called Sharia. They're mostly about you guys. So the other way around, that's been the case for a year or 1,300 to 1,400. That's kind of nice. I've also heard about thorns in the eyes. This was mainly about problems that have been named, now, after so many years. Those problems are thorns in the eyes, whereas those thorns in those eyes are actually beamed. If they are taken out, then we do not have to choose the two-after-best, three-after-best or four-after-best solution here. I will support these solutions to a very large extent next week, but perhaps we should address the substance of the matter. Finally. Before I begin my motions, I note that we have had a nice little debate on the Muslim Brotherhood. I think we've gotten a little closer. I have slightly modified the motion I wanted to table and made it very soft, very sweet, so in fact there is no one who can vote against my motion on the Muslim Brotherhood. I'll just throw the motion against it now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Muslim Brotherhood is an international organisation whose purpose is to spread (the influence of) Sharia;]] [[Whereas the Muslim Brotherhood has links with several jihadist organisations;]] [[Whereas the Muslim Brotherhood also exerts invisible influence on governance, political and civil society organisations in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that an organisation such as the Muslim Brotherhood may undermine our democracy and the rule of law;]] [[calls on the government to investigate in depth the network, the interests and influence of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u368	And then the second one. I told you, we don't make laws on religion here, but there are ideologies that make laws on us. It's called Sharia. That is what I have missed at the heart of the matter in the implementation of the report. I have tabled a motion on this, asking the Chamber for a ruling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Sharia Islam is in progress;]] [[Whereas all currents within Islam, including Salafist currents and the Muslim Brotherhood, seek the introduction of Sharia;]] [[Whereas the basis of these movements, being Islam, remains unnamed in the report;]] [[points out that the report of the POCOB Committee did not identify the main factor of the problem under consideration and that this would prevent the approach of all the problems mentioned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u369	Thanks for the input. The next speaker will be Mr Van Dijk, who will begin his second term on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u370	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answer. The conclusions of the report are clear. I note a Chamberwide concern about that influence from abroad. Actually, the question is, how do you resist that as best you can? The government's answer is that Wtmo, the Transparency Act civil society organisations. It takes steps. I'm just afraid it's not enough. I also ask when the Minister intends to answer the written questions of the Chamber. Does he think that law will be dealt with in this cabinet period? Or is he being lifted over the election? Then we'd be a lot further away from home. Mr. Chairman. As I have already said, I am in favour of a total ban on funding from abroad by religious organisations. I ask the government to make an analogy with Mr Ollongren's bill for a ban on funding political parties from abroad. That too is quite specific. I ask the government to be inspired by this and submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report "Invisible influence" shows that around 5% of mosques are affected by foreign money flows;]] [[noting that these religious institutions are financially supported by other states in promoting anti-democratic ideas;]] [[whereas foreign financing of political parties is also restricted due to unwanted interference;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a ban on foreign funding of religious organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u371	The next speaker will be Mr Van Ojik, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the three rulers for the way they have answered all the questions. I was, however, enthusiastic about the way in which the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment outlined his commitment to integration at the end of his speech. The cabinet has, as far as I can see, a separate path towards this debate. It has actually started with the idea that perhaps all foreign funding should be banned. I'm just gonna say it in a nutshell. The Council of State said, no, you shouldn't. Then came the idea that perhaps all organisations should be asked to give complete openness and show their books. Then the Council of State said, "Maybe we shouldn't do that." Now we have suddenly taken a very big step by saying: only if we actively ask you to do so will you have to give access to your books and if something is wrong, we may be able to intervene. That has been quite a journey in recent years. I will not put that into a motion now, but there will undoubtedly be an opportunity to discuss the law and possibly amend it. In this debate, I have tried to say that there is still something in between. Then maybe you should start working with certain criteria. We have exchanged the arguments on this and we have not yet got close enough. I still think there's something in there. I'm afraid of randomness or you don't know what you don't know or you don't know who to ask and so on. I can see some objections there. Again, that discussion will undoubtedly come back when we discuss the law. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. It is about research, because I really do not think there will be an automatic need to know even more precisely what is going on through the law on transparency submitted by the cabinet. That has to do with the very low response. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas knowledge of the nature and extent of foreign influence of religious institutions in the Netherlands is still limited;]] [[noting that the response of mosques to the WODC research on the foreign funding of religious institutions has been low;]] [[believes that it is very important to better understand the foreign funding of religious organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with religious institutions with a view to participating in new independent research into foreign funding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u373	Thank you for your input. The next speaker was Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to colleagues for the interaction and debate. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I think that many sensible things have been said today, especially by the cabinet. I also agree very much with what Mr Koolmees said at the end. I recognize those words, too. That was about not being stuck in clichés and grooves from ten or fifteen years ago and in pessimism, so that we also see that there are developments in the Islamic-Dutch community and that we must embrace them, but also help them a little bit. Mr President, I have a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that, in accordance with the Islamic zakat principle, the Dutch mosques are free, without consideration, to attract money from abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the last ten years, Dutch mosques have dealt about 500 times with violence, destruction, bellyaching or other hate speech;]] [[whereas we can no longer talk about incidents, but about a structural problem;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the exact extent and the underlying causes of the violence and hatred against mosques, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-16]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u375	If you pronounce a piece of my motion, such as 'and goes to the order of the day', it does not take me so much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u376	No, it was a hint that you do it completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u377	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I forgot. Apologies. Thank you for correcting me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that the use of terms such as "hateimams" and "hate palaces" in the House of Representatives is undesirable and that they contribute to the normalization of Muslim hatred and Muslim discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new study by the Verwey-Jonker Institute, commissioned by the municipality of Rotterdam, shows that philosophical and religious organisations have great social added value;]] [[noting that this social added value has a market value of about EUR 350 million in Rotterdam alone;]] [[points out that religious organisations, including mosques, have a social added value for the Netherlands and deserve proper appreciation for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has submitted an amended bill on foreign funding of religious institutions;]] [[noting that the Cabinet had not asked the Council of State for its opinion;]] [[calls on the Government to seek further advice from the Council of State on the basis of the new bill on foreign funding of religious institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the last ten years, Dutch mosques have dealt about 500 times with violence, destruction, bellyaching or other hate speech;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet will step up the prevention of radicalisation;]] [[noting that the successive Rutte Cabinets have neglected the security of mosques;]] [[calls on the government to provide EUR 10 million in structural funds to meet the security needs of mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the POCOB report recommends measures to be taken in the context of removing the breeding ground for radicalisation;]] [[calls on the government to appoint a National Coordinator for Combating Muslim Hate with perseverance and mandate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-18]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-19]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-20]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-21]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u378	I've got a minute and a half and one motion, so I'm kind of sitting there talking really fast. So I'm gonna take my time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet indicated that it would step up the prevention of radicalisation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan against Muslim hatred and to provide structural funding of EUR 50 million,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u380	Thank you for your input. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u381	Mr President, I would like to thank the directors for their answers. I didn't really have a problem with this debate. It was not necessarily just against each other, because it was really about the content and that is important when it comes to this issue. So thank you very much for that. I realize that we are in the final stage of this cabinet, but nevertheless it is important to what we do not... Whether that's tomorrow or at another time, but it's almost election recess anyway. I do not mean that cynical at all, but that is why it is important to hold on to what we have discussed here and the valuable report and to move on to a subsequent government agreement and a subsequent cabinet. That also means that I am still tabling this motion. We now had a good talk with Minister Koolmees in this case after the previous negative letter of 10 December. I saw an opening now and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an estimated 100 informal Salafist schools are active in the Netherlands and the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Unwanted Effect from Unfree Countries (POCOB) reported on shocking teaching content in some of these schools;]] [[considers that all forms of informal education with an anti-integrative, anti-democratic and anti-legal character, from whatever angle, are undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to make it legally possible to carry out risk-based monitoring and intervention in informal education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been put forward by Mr Kuik, Mr Becker and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u382	I grieved on the note. I'm sorry about that, but I think the message will come across. I know that the word "supervisory" may give a Pavlov, but my request would be: don't do that. I think we have had a very good debate, in which we have indicated exactly what we want. We want a new look and not all forms of individual education. It is not about the scouting clubs or the craft clubs that Mr Paternotte has been part of. It is really about preventing unwanted counter-democratic, counter-constitutional and counter-legal formation. It may be close to Mrs Van Toorenburg's wish. That is my commitment and I would be delighted if Mr Koolmees would look at this. In this case, therefore, I am looking at Minister Koolmees' excuse, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, in particular. That concludes it, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u383	Thank you for your input. The next speaker was Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u384	Mr President, thank you very much. What we were talking about today is indeed a point that does matter. We were talking about how to protect the democratic rule of law from malicious forces without falling into the trap of violating the rule of law itself. That's balancing on a very thin cord. I'm glad we were able to talk about it this way. I do think that perhaps there should be a follow-up to see how we can move forward together with the groups in the Muslim community that are confused with repressive means and anti-democratic attitudes and so on and so on. There are, and we will have to actively involve them in this process, so that we can offer the evil forces sufficient counter-play. I thank the rulers for answering the questions and confine myself to tabling two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the parliamentary interrogation committee Unwanted influence of civil society and religious organisations in the Netherlands concludes that the Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing suffers from a lack of powers and capacity problems, which makes effectiveness not optimal;]] [[Whereas sufficient instruments and powers are essential in the fight against this undesirable influence;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to extend the powers of the Task Force's Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing, and to inform the Court of its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u385	There is no time limit, but I can imagine that in the missionary period too, that is, for the final wave of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u386	Those two sentences were more of an explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u387	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the parliamentary interrogation committee has concluded Unwanted influence of civil society and religious organisations in the Netherlands that there is an undesirable influence from non-free countries;]] [[Whereas this influence may have far-reaching consequences for Dutch society and this influence is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate a ban on funding religious organisations from non-free countries, based on the definition of non-free countries used in the Freedom in the World report of the American organisation Freedom House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u388	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u389	Thank you for your input, too. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors and, of course, to the support for the reflections on all the questions raised by the Chamber. It is clear that steps have been taken in recent years on this dossier, that there are more measures and more opportunities to act against unwanted foreign influence. It is also clear that we cannot yet tell each other that we are where we want to be and that we have robust protection. There are still steps to be taken both internally and abroad. On that last point I also have a motion for a resolution. There have been agreements with several countries in the Middle East in recent years that process has actually started under the previous cabinet to make sure that they do their best to make and reduce funding flows. Those appointments have had some effect. Our question is to broaden these agreements, to ensure that, wherever possible, we also gain insight into individual donations and also limit them from the Middle East to religious institutions in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has succeeded in making bilateral agreements with Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates on the transparency and limitation of donations from these countries to religious institutions in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that these agreements do not appear on donations from individuals;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain these bilateral agreements and, where possible, to extend them to all Gulf States, while also gaining insight into donations from individuals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuik and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u392	You may take the motion yourself to the clerk. Thank you for your input. The next speaker was Ms Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the cabinet for answering all the questions. It is good that the Rog Committee has produced such a fine report, which we have been able to discuss for so long today. Actually, I'm still sad that he just left us in the middle last Tuesday, but, well, it's no different. The cabinet has indicated on a number of points that it wants to go even further. The letter already gave by the way. The Chamber has given some extra direction by means of various motions and from the CDA I also have three points I would like to draw particular attention to. To that end, I shall table the following three motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the POCOB parliamentary interrogation committee speaks with great urgency about the worrying influence of Salafist drivers through informal education;]] [[Whereas the AIVD also notes in its annual reports that radical Islamic drivers are able to position themselves strongly within the range of education offered to young Muslims;]] [[Considering that the POCOB and the AIVD point out that, in informal Islamic education, intolerable and anti-democratic ideas are passed on to children, thus alienating them from Dutch society and possibly hindering their participation in society;]] [[Whereas in 1999 the World Health Organisation re-defined "child abuse" more broadly;]] [[Whereas alienating children from the society in which they grow up and hindering their participation in society falls within the definition of "child abuse" of the WHO 1999;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have a duty under the Treaties to combat child abuse;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how signals of this form of child abuse can be picked up in informal education and how effective action can then be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u394	Of course it is good to think about a way of risk-oriented supervision. That's all fine, but I just think it's important that we also focus on whether it's child abuse. That is why I wanted to emphasise this today. The next motion is about the Charity Commission, which has a special role in monitoring charities in England. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas funding of civil society organisations should not be accompanied by undesirable foreign influence and abuse of the freedoms in force here in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Charity Commission for Charities has a supervisory role in the United Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and to what extent such a supervisor could have added value and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u395	That was in the context of: we can learn from each other. Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Task Force Problematic behaviour and unwanted influence cannot share information with the Financial Expertise Centre and vice versa;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how a basis for exchange of information between the Task Force and the Financial Expertise Centre can be achieved and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Becker and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u396	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u397	Thank you very much. We now have the last speaker in the second term from the Chamber, and that is Mrs Van der Graaf, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the members of the government for answering all the questions we have asked and also the questions for reflection of the cabinet in the Chamber. The cabinet has really shown the urgency expressed in the report of the interrogation committee. I think that is why the interrogation committee has done a very good job. Mr. Chairman. I have had a break myself because I also had to make a contribution to another debate this evening, but I am back now. I understand that the cabinet is very reluctant to see if we could put together a list of non-free countries. I understand that, but I would like to challenge the cabinet once again to state something about it in the second term. Could we not use a measuring bar or at least, as has been done in Denmark for example, include organisations or countries that really reject our core values, our freedoms, stand back there, undermine the rule of law, our democratic rule of law, our fundamental freedoms and human rights? I would like to challenge the cabinet one more time to see what possibilities it sees there. I am aware of all the diplomatic sensitivities, but I would like to challenge the cabinet once again. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Becker has also tabled a motion on my behalf to see if we can take further steps to really freeze those assets if we are undermining our rule of law, those fundamental freedoms and human rights. I also hope to receive a positive opinion from the cabinet. I have one final motion. It is about cooperation in Europe. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas European cooperation is essential in addressing undesirable foreign financing and influence;]] [[whereas this has been the subject of discussion within the EU for a long time, but has not yet led to concrete steps;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative within the European Union to create a coalition of like-minded countries that want to speed up addressing undesirable funding from third countries, and to come forward with proposals for a joint approach by the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35228-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u400	Thank you very much. There are 25 motions filed by the Chamber. They were also handed over to the rulers during the second term. That is why they need a not very long suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u401	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on undesirable influence from non-free countries. We have arrived at the second term of government. First of all, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for today's long but good debate. There are still two points from the first period that I would like to return to. Then I'm gonna deal with the motions. The first is a reaction to Mrs Becker on the definition of 'problematic behaviour'. As has already been mentioned, it remains difficult to define this legally, as there is a wide range of behavior that is included. This goes from appealing to keeping Dutch society away, to inciting hatred. The first is not a criminal offence. Inciting hatred is a criminal offence. Of course, there's a sliding bowl in there. The problematic behavior that falls within the law is allowed; that is not defined as criminal. But we do say: we want to combat this behaviour, with the task force and with the instruments we have. I am open to considering, also in connection with the government's reconnaissance of the way in which money flows are being handled, the public order hook, I shall say, of Mr Dekker, whether the results of that process still provide a basis for further clarification of the concept of 'problematic behaviour'. This may also provide the basis for further information exchange within the Task Force. In addition, I will ask the national attorney to reflect on the understanding of "problematic behavior." I'll come back to this after the summer. I give the floor to inform you whether he is still seeing any leads for further steps. Finally, I would like to emphasise what can be done. If we have signals, we'll deal with them, even if it's not a criminal offence. So making the cases that are not punishable does not necessarily help, because it is often about de-escalating, bringing them into conversation, trying to prevent it from breaking down. So yeah, I'm gonna do it. Yeah, I'm gonna explore it, and yeah, I'm gonna ask the county attorney. And I say honestly: it is only a question of whether all steps should lead to further Juridification of this kind of behavior. But I'll come back to it later. When is the resilience agenda coming to the Chamber? In the cabinet response to the report, we have already outlined the outlines of the steps taken. I have already said what is in it: discrimination, alternative offer; all the different elements mentioned in the cabinet response. The large resilience agenda 2021-2025 is currently being developed. It is up to a new cabinet to set this agenda and, if necessary, to make money available for it. It needs to be printed ready for formation. The more specific you want it, the greater the budgetary burden involved. I don't have that right now. At the formation you can make a choice. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 7 does Mr Dekker. The motion in part No. 8: a clear legal definition of "problematic behaviour." In the context of what I have just said to Mrs Becker, judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 9 does Mr Dekker. The motion in part No. Mr Blok. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Blok Then the motion to part No. 11: Judgment Chamber, with one comment. There was also a question from the first term. Over the last few years, we've been setting up an imam training program. It is too early at this stage to commit ourselves to a definitive transitional period. First it has to prove itself and there has to be enough offer. So it's really gonna take a while. That's one. I will explore whether it is possible, with a transitional period, to go parallel to the development of an imam training system in which imams from outside the EU are no longer automatically eligible for a work permit. It is then a permit in connection with cut-off. It is complicated to develop something like this, because within the Foreign Labour Act we have a separate category for the clergy and that is what it says at the moment: given the nature of the job, there is no labour market test, because in practice there are no vacancies. If a form of review were to be introduced, for example on the basis of available training, it would apply to all clergy, not just imams. That's just equality of law. With this remark and against the background that it is not directly settled, I give the motion in part No. 11 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 12 does Mr Dekker. The motion in part No. 13 is a speech-exmotion, so I shouldn't judge it. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Jasper van Dijk is about a kind of generic ban on foreign funding of religious organizations. We do not recommend this, bearing in mind today's discussion and the opinion of the Council of State and given the generic nature. The motion in part No. 15 by Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Van der Graaf on an investigation. We have already done this twice and that has twice led to not a lot of new insights. So I would not want to do it again, because that leads to the same conclusion. It is much better to deal with Mr Dekker's law quickly and thus take steps forward. So I'd like to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 16 is a speech-exmotion. The motion in part No. I believe that 17 of Mr Azarkan's amendments are superfluous. We've just done a major investigation into Muslim discrimination. There's a piece of overlap there, and that's how I'm gonna dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 18 by Mr Azarkan is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 19 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 20 Mr Dekker, like the motion in part No. 21. Then the motion to part No. 22. I have a request to make to Mr Azarkan. As you know, a motion on a national coordinator of discrimination has recently been passed in the Chamber. That is now being worked out by Minister Ollongren. She will soon be coming to the Chamber with its elaboration. The friendly request is to hold this motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u403	I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan. Would you like to respond to the request to hold the motion? Mr Azarkan is thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u404	If not, I'll advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 23, I advise. There is no cover for this 50 million euros either. The motion in part No. 24, by Mrs Keiken, Mrs Becker and Mr Paternotte, I would like to join with the motion on item No. 28, by Mrs Van Toorenburg. I'm struggling with this, and I'm telling you the truth. I understand very well what you are asking for in both motions. Considering what we have explored, I also understand very well that there are problems here that we have to deal with. Let me do it this way, because I really need to talk to the colleagues from OCW about this, but also to the colleagues from VWS, because they are formally about child care and child abuse. I'm asking you both to hold your motion. Then I will soon come together with a reaction and in coordination with OCW and VWS. I will do one thing anyway, namely to consult with the municipalities to see if we can bring out more signals from these types of educational institutions more actively, so that we can also have a better view of the risk-oriented part that both motions are asking for. Then I will consult with my fellow Members in order to get a good response. I do this together with OCW, VWS, SZW and JenV, because we do see the social problem of this, but we are really struggling with the legal basis and the question of what is possible here. I'm putting on my sweet face now, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mr Paternotte walks to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u406	It always reacts to my sweet face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u407	I expect Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van Toorenburg to respond to the Minister's request. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u408	I would not dare to respond to the Minister's request for Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kuik. I wanted to say two things. One is that I've never been to a craft club. Two is actually the question of whether the Minister for Legal Protection, who, in my view, has youth protection in his portfolio, can also comment on the definition of child abuse which I have in the motion for a resolution on item No. 28 read. It contains an English definition and a Dutch translation that I cannot quite place yet. Does he have the idea that that definition could be workable? That could be interesting. I would also like to get a response from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u409	The Minister will answer that question when he speaks. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u410	It is always funny to get the question of holding a motion asking for an investigation, because it needs to be looked at. Then I think: I think that's what we're asking. The question is: figure out how to do that, knowing that it is child abuse when raising your children in such a way that they stand all the way to society, and see what you can do about it. In my view, the motion could just as well be judged by Chamber, because that's all I'm asking. My question is: look at it from a different point of view than every time it is monitored, because my fear concerns the stamp 'okay'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u411	Yeah, you're absolutely right about that. Mrs Kuik's motion is actually in the same direction. In her explanatory statement she also said: do not react dogmatically to that, or do not automatically come from a pavlov reaction with supervision. However, from my advisers, from the lawyers who know it, I hear that the legal framework is very complicated and that, based on what we have now, you cannot intervene on that. That's one side. The same applies to the legal provision of informal supervision. On the other hand, I can hear your signals from the Chamber. I understand you're seriously concerned about this. I share that with you. So I want something with that. My quest is to find each other somewhere we can all work with. I don't have any illusions, either. I believe that the motion will simply be adopted, but then it will remain a search for something that is workable and with which we can really take a step forward. It should not be the case that, in six months' time, we say 'we have found out what is being asked for in the motion and this does not provide enough legal space', and that we are once again facing each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u412	I still have to discuss it with the co-sponsors, but I would nevertheless like to put the motion to the vote, also as an encouragement. We also held our first motion. That led to a "no." I really think this is necessary. That is why I would like to see this motion as an encouragement. Then we'll see what that search, which I understand, will lead to. I think that is more desirable, so I intend to do so. Mr Paternotte says he has never been a member of a craft club. Then we are curious about the scouting pins, but that is for next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u413	Maybe the Minister can tell us what he is now giving both motions, because a judgment has to be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u414	May I have one more time, Mr. Chairman? You know, it's late and I've had a long day. So I may be a little different than usual, but I think it's really serious. It's about informal education. It is clearly described in the report. I understand all the complexity, but it can't be that we get a "dissuade" if the cabinet itself feels that we have to deal with this? Then just do a backup. And at the moment when the search leads nowhere, you can always say: we don't do it. I would really like to do that urgent appeal to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u415	In the context of the good relations with your Chamber, I give them both judgement Chamber, but with the disclaimer that we are seriously going to check with the colleagues of OCW and of VWS how this is legal and whether we can operationalize this, with all the caveats that go with it. I'm not promising anything, I swear, because if I did, I'd have to dissuade her. I do not want that because I share the problem and because I see that your Chamber attaches great importance to this. In good faith I want to take this a step further, but there are really some hooks and eyes on it and there is some expectations management on my side. I hope you heard that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u416	I heard that right. I appreciate that very much. And with that, I will conclude seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u417	Thank you. The motion in part No. 25 by Mr Bishop. I understand what Mr Bishop is asking. At the same time, Mrs Becker's question is now before us, namely to define 'problematic behaviour' and to explore what you can actually do with it. In order to expand that, I think it is a step further. Against that background, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 26 is for Mr Blok. The motion in part No. 27 is also for Mr Blok. The motion in part No. 28 I just talked about. The motion in part No. 29 is for Mr Dekker, and the following two motions are for Mr Dekker and Mr Blok respectively. Mr President, that was it for my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u418	Mr Azarkan has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u419	Yes, Mr. Chairman. However, about the motion in part No. 17. I saw the Minister wrestling with what he had to do with it. That is really too thin if there are 500 incidents with prayer houses and if this cabinet writes down: we also want to remove the underlying causes, because if we do not do so, then the mop with the tap remains open. The fact that this is happening and that it is never actually discussed in plenary in this Chamber is really a very sensitive issue for many Muslims. It is never even mapped, and it also looks at the underlying causes. Saying "we did it half a little bit," I really think it's too skinny. I really never saw that report, so I'd really like to ask the Minister to just see what he can promise me. He was also very kind to the other colleagues; I am also saying it a little in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u420	I would very much like to be nice to you; I have two things to do. One. We recently completed a major investigation into Muslim discrimination in the Netherlands. I believe that this was done at the request of Mr Kuzu. We just finished that and a report on it is available. The second. We also have the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands, in which all incidents of violence and threats are reported. I think that appears twice a year. Or once a year? Twice a year. This keeps a finger on the wrist about what is happening with extremist expressions. Both sources are therefore available. You're linking them now. I would say that both sources are already available. And I want to break them up. The problem is there, and I can see it. That's what I see in practice. I am also a little protective of my officials, who have a lot to do in many areas, who are also very hard at work in the field of the integration law and the task force, and who are still getting a lot of research work from your Chamber. I think that is right and good, but if I think that 'these things are already there', I would ask him to take a little account of my officials and their workload, however much I would like to meet Mr Azarkan in the context of good faith and all that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u421	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u422	Appreciate the answer. Actually, the minister says, "Take those two parts and put a staple through it." I keep finding that skinny, but okay, then so be it. Then we leave it to the Chamber to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u423	You are, by the way, being laughed at by Mrs. Kuik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u424	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. One more moment and then the Minister for Legal Protection will provide a number of motions with an opinion. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u425	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for a good debate. Among other things, on the motion in part No. There was another one; the motion in part No. 24, I believe you've already been judged by my colleague Koolmees, with some disclaimers. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me to comment on that point of child abuse. During the suspension, I quickly had a word with the officials who are dealing with this matter. They were not invited to this, of course, but they estimate that the WHO uses a much broader definition of child abuse and development threat. If you put that next to the definitions we have in our Dutch legislation, it does not fit one-on-one. That's one of the things we think we should take along in the search we're going to do. Then there was Mr Van Dijk's question about when the note on the report could be expected. I don't think that's going to work before the elections, but there's going to be a lot of pace. I think it is an important legislative proposal and I myself have the impression that a broad majority in this Chamber would also like to go through with the legislative proposal. Nor can I immediately see that the problem should be that a cabinet in deportationary status after the elections. In any case, I hope for an early debate after that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 7 I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber saying that we said the following in the letter, and I have just said so in the debate. We're talking about a different bow. I'm seriously going to explore that. If there is a positive result, I will certainly do what is stated in this motion, but of course that exploration is not yet complete. So if that's really gonna work out, I'm gonna take a little hit around the arm. Then the motion to part No. 9. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The same applies to the motion in part No. 12 by Mr De Graaf on the study of the Muslim Brotherhood. Then the motion to part No. 20. I'd advise against it. That is a motion by Mr Azarkan. The motion in part No. 21 about the security needs of mosques I also advise against. I see this need and there is a lot going on in that area, but there is also a lot being asked for there... At least, "many"? They're asking for an extra $10 million for that. There's no cover in the motion, so I'm gonna have to dissuade it. Then the motion to part No. 29 by Mrs Van Toorenburg on the Charity Commission. In addition, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The same applies to the other motion tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg, which was tabled in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u426	Thank you very much for your input. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor to welcome some of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recognise very well those MPs who indicated in the second term that in this debate there was a serious search for measures that are effective and fit within our rule of law, for behaviour that is undesirable but not severely punishable. This is a complex quest, which leads to concrete action on the part of the government, but which also partly takes place in unknown areas, in which we are moving forward together. Against that background, I give my opinion on the remaining motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 10, by Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg. It calls on the government to develop an unfree country index which will allow for an objective and targeted assessment of the risks associated with funding flows in the Netherlands. I have indicated that using a list of countries as the basis for action in the Netherlands leads to a practical objection, as the Council of State also points out: by free movement of capital, of money, within the European Union, you cannot seal a flow of money by simply doing something in the Netherlands, because you cannot stop the money from another European country. I also pointed out that if only the Netherlands were to draw up such a list, the countries would react firmly to such a list. It will then most likely be countries with which we are also on the table for other issues, such as tackling terrorism, because they are countries that are on the travel route or where people can hide. The drawing up of such a list also has a diplomatic price. That sounds very abstract, but it can really hinder us in the fight against terrorism or other crime, where we need that country. Against this background, I am fully committed to developing measures at European level. The motion as it has now been formulated, in which the Netherlands has to do so alone, I must therefore advise against it. The next motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u428	One moment, there's a question from Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u429	The Minister and I, for my part, always find themselves in the same confusion of speech or the same misunderstanding. When I ask if the Minister can develop a list of criteria, the Minister says: I cannot develop an unfree list of countries, because that also has diplomatic risks. Then I say again: I understand that; that is why I am not asking for an unfree country list, but for an index, a list of criteria, where, if necessary, you could give the country a score for your risk-oriented supervision. I am not asking for an opinion on countries at all. I'm not asking for a country list. As far as the Acts are concerned, too, this motion is not intended for this purpose; it is intended for a list of criteria. Of course, I respect the judgment of the government, and I have nothing to say about that, but I would like to say that this is the intention of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u430	Mrs Becker's interruption also indicates the struggle I started with. I appreciate that she wants to leave room to avoid damaging relations with those countries. Mrs Becker sees, like me, that we are much further away from home if a country would then say: I will not inform the Netherlands if I find someone in my country who is wanted in the Netherlands for terrorism. Something like that could happen. But if we convert the index into an act, then that means that the index requires you to influence an action or funding from a country that meets those criteria. This means in Dutch law that the institution that does not receive or has to repay that money may go to court. That's a big good. The judge will then ask: why, dear government, did you freeze this money? The answer to this question, which is to be published and thus heard, is also in the Netherlands: because it was in that index. Then we'll end up in that territory that I said two things about. One: it's easy to get around. Two: that country will react very strongly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u431	If we proceed with confiscation or any other measures that Minister Dekker is prepared to investigate, I think that the judge of the cabinet or of the party that imposed that measure will indeed want a sound justification for why that is justified. Then you can only point to the problematic behavior, but I'm trying to add another criterion. You can also say that we have put the source, the country, where that money came from, along a measuring bar and it is currently scoring quite high on these ten criteria of non-freedom. So that was for us a second argument, a second argument, with which we think we have a very strong case to intervene on this freedom. That's the idea. So it is not my intention to perpetually nail a country to shame, or to put the Minister in diplomatic trouble. But it is my intention that, if you are going to intervene, you can also do so based not only on behavior, but also on the source and purpose behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u432	Yes. If you want to act as a government, a resident of the Netherlands must be able to assess in advance whether he is possibly in violation. So the person, or religious institution, who is then the target of such a measure, cannot be surprised by that measure. They must have known in advance that money they receive comes from a country or institution that the government might act on. Such a measure always means that you have to make it clear in advance, again, it is an unfree country index which countries would have ended up on that index at some point in time. Otherwise, the recipient will not know whether it has acted in breach of the rules. So I will not escape the fact that these countries will respond to this with potentially really harmful consequences. Nor can I escape the fact that anyone who wants to transfer the money to the Netherlands can do so through any other EU country, which means that I have a fight with a country and the money ends up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u433	Thank you. The motion in part No. 26...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u434	Then I come to the motion on part No. 26, by Mr Bishop, who asks the government to investigate a ban on funding religious organisations from non-free countries, based on the definition of non-free countries used by Freedom House. In fact, my answer is the same as that given to Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg. I understand the search, but it would lead to exactly the same two objections, so I must also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 27, by Mr Paternotte and a large number of other signatories, calls on the Government to maintain bilateral agreements and possibly extend them to all Gulf States and also to gain insight into donations from individuals. I would like to make that effort, with the note I made in the debate, namely that this is not in exchange for providing information on our part that I cannot offer. I see Mr Paternotte nodding. The motion by Mrs Van der Graaf and others in part No. 31 calls on the government to take the initiative within the European Union to create a coalition of like-minded countries. That motion is entirely in line with my commitment, so I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u435	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the government and thus at the end of the debate. Many thanks to the rulers and the support. Thanks also to the members and their support and that of the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u436	Next Tuesday, January 19, we will vote on the 25 motions tabled.
