ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35600, Amendment of the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act (Nuclearness Reduction and Natural Improvement). The number and titles of the documents which may be involved are on the agenda of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u2	I'm asking for some rest in the room. I give the floor to Mr Pijman on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Berkhout. It took some getting used to this morning when I saw a senator sitting in the Knight's Room, not with a bottle of water, but with a bottle of wine on the table. It's very good that you put him next to it, but within your grasp. Mr. Chairman. It was the judge who forced the state into new nitrogen legislation. The PAS of the previous cabinet, with the VVD and the Labour Party, which previously received support in this house, also from us, I say was wiped off the table by the judge. The Netherlands has had too high a nitrogen load for years. There's no other way to do that if you love most of the cattle per hectare of the world. We have 100 million pieces of poultry, 15 million pigs, 4 million cows. Those numbers have not decreased since 2009. The number of farmers is falling. This means that the scale increase is still continuing. By the way, a lot of farmers stop because they have no follow-up. This has put great pressure on nature and Natura 2000 sites. The diversity of species is decreasing. That is ultimately fatal for the economy and for man. Fruit growers already notice what it means for their yields when there are far fewer bees, to give you an example. After the Remkes report "Not everything can be done everywhere," the consultation rounds and the opinion of the Council of State, you now come up with a new approach. In this bill, the Minister and the Cabinet anchor a programme of nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement with source and nature measures. You come up with results obligations. By 2025, 40% of the Natura 2000 nature should be below the nitrogen-sensitive deposition value. This should be 50% by 2030, 74% by 2035 and 100% by 2040. You monitor and direct where necessary. That is the agreement that we would like to see confirmed again today. In addition, the cabinet provides partial exemptions for the nitrogen deposition for activities of the construction sector, which temporarily increase nitrogen emissions. You do this by tackling total emissions and improving nature. The question before us is: are the proposed law and the upcoming programme sufficient to ensure that the Netherlands does not have to close again? Are we confident that the measures are now legally sustainable? In this context, no guarantees can be given, but the results that I have just mentioned, your reactions to the Council of State's opinion and the subsequent amendments to the law give the D66 Group confidence. It is important that, unlike the PAS Act, we do not issue nitrogen rights without having earned them. Mr. Chairman. One of the points in the proposal before us is the question of who is in charge here. The state is responsible for the environmental values that the province must maintain. That is not easy, given that some provinces have been set up in this file before. We immediately admit that the Minister is dealing with decentralised regulation, which gives the provinces a major role in nature management. At the same time, the responsibility lies with the Empire to meet the objectives that we now set out in the law. I have the following question to the Minister: can the Empire, when necessary, fulfil that responsibility, without the goals set being called into question? Can the Empire direct with this system in such a way that the goals are met? The D66 Group regrets that the cabinet continues to be voluntary when buying up farmers. Why wasn't a national buy-back programme set up almost two years ago immediately after the court ruling, which had bought out the largest polluting peak loaders? We all know the example of that one turkey holder in Ermelo that emits more nitrogen than we save each other by driving 100 km/h. We find it incomprehensible that the State did not intervene at that time. Research shows that we could have prevented the stagnation of the economy if we had immediately bought up the 25 biggest culprits and thus removed their nitrogen emissions from the market. The preliminary report and the further preliminary report show that the cabinet attaches great importance to the voluntary nature of buying-in. But in this new approach, too, it may be that the cabinet will have to lift the soft hand that is still being used today. In the method now chosen, the provinces must submit nitrogen reduction plans, which will then be reviewed by the Cabinet. We are not confident in advance that these plans will produce sufficient results. Of course the minister can give us a clue. Of course she'd like to avoid that. But it is our priority that once and for all we tackle and solve this problem and not again be held hostage by the polluters. Can the Minister state again exactly how she sees the interaction with the provinces and when it will resort to coercion to achieve the goals? Mind you, the failure to meet the targets may mean that housing and the associated infrastructure or, for example, the energy transition will have to be shut down again, which could cost thousands of jobs and give the economy another pinch that we absolutely cannot afford after the corona crisis. My question is also what task the provinces get to draw up a workable nitrogen reduction plan, bearing in mind that the task for Fryslân, for example, looks very different than for Brabant but that the mutual relationship is great. What instruments will the Minister use to act directly when some fail to achieve the objectives? Mr. Chairman. The present law is a window law. We welcome this, because it is very concrete on the one hand, but framework laws and their implementation often cause problems; for example, the energy agreement and the corresponding legislation. Implementation is often delayed. That danger is not imaginary under the present law, because many source measures are still to be rolled out, such as buying up pig farmers, buying up peak loaders, increasing grazing, diluting manure with water, but producing 120 to 170 moles. In addition, the programme needs to be further developed, we depend on twelve provinces, we still need to set up measurement and control systems and we need to make many agreements that depend on, for example, the date of implementation of the Environment Act, which has not yet been settled in this Chamber but is provisionally on 1 January 2022. Suppose this Chamber considers that the ICT system that facilitates the Environment Act is not sufficiently developed to implement it now and does not approve the present AMvB. What does this mean for the implementation of this law? Can the Minister promise that the implementation of the present objectives will not be compromised if the implementation of the Environmental Act is delayed? Mr. Chairman. In addition to environmental values, we are dealing with deposition values and emissions. How does the Minister arrange for it to be absolutely clear to the various parties what they have to comply with and how the government monitors and controls it and intervenes directly when the objectives are not met? That must be clear for every farmer and every farm, because let us be honest: this law facilitates the polluter in order to change and improve, but does not pay the polluter. Many farmers are the biggest polluters in this respect, and their organisations believe that this law is now far too ambitious, but the country and the economy cannot lock up again. By the way, I am not saying that the agricultural sector has not done anything yet. Farms now emit less than 20 years ago, but emissions in the industrial sector have been significantly reduced by the BAT approach. This can also benefit the agricultural sector. Does the Minister intend to extend this approach, the abbreviation of which is 'best available techniques', to agriculture, not on a voluntary basis but on a compulsory basis, as in the case of industry? I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. 5 billion will be made available for the implementation of this law: 2 billion for the source measures and 3 billion for nature restoration. Those are huge amounts of money. In addition, there are many other subsidies available for the agricultural sector. A total of 850 million is available per year from European funds alone for the Dutch agricultural sector. In the European budget, agriculture is the largest item of expenditure. We spend a lot more on agricultural subsidies than on knowledge, innovation and science. We continue to find that incomprehensible. The Dutch agriculture and livestock farming are extremely intensive and also deliver excellent performance, but are certainly not sustainable. The Minister has written a very readable note on circular agriculture and has also set up a number of instruments to promote it, but we are only at the beginning of a transition. In order to achieve sustainable agriculture and livestock farming in our country, we will have to intervene in the chains that force farmers to go for quantity and produce as much as possible. Agreements on fair prices for farmers, accompanied by animal welfare measures and emission restrictions, are needed to create a new balance between agriculture, nature management and other economic activities. The many subsidies that already exist can help in this by focusing them more specifically. Of course, we would very much like to see an agricultural agreement and we would like to hear from the Minister how she intends to set it up. Can the Minister promise that the provinces will only receive funds if their nitrogen and nature programmes have been approved by the Empire and comply with the national framework? Will the agreements with the provinces include penalty clauses if implementation is not achieved? I'd like a response. D66 would like to see greater coherence in the nitrogen approach, the promotion of circular farming and manure policy. The whole spatial policy needs to be more integrated. The cabinet is now proposing a switch-over programme. The D66 Group asks the Minister to say that it is transforming the existing subsidy instruments at European and national level in such a way that this fund really leads to the necessary transition and that farmers also have perspective. The sector does not need soft healers and excessive bureaucracy, but it needs a clear framework within which agriculture and livestock can also take place in a very densely populated country such as the Netherlands. That perspective needs to come up now. That is what the many public support measures should be aimed at, in addition to those fair prices for farmers. D66 can imagine that EAGF grants could be used for this purpose. The EAFRD grants provided by RVO for income support measures will, I think, be less suitable for this. Can the Minister provide the Chamber with a note identifying the possibilities for the conversion of subsidies for the conversion fund and possibly making proposals, so that the conversion fund can be filled up to the maximum and farmers actually receive support for change and renewal, such as investing in sustainable stables with a separation between wet and dry manure, which can benefit greatly? How long does the Minister think it will take for a robust and simple nitrogen registration system to be in place? Every economic initiative must now literally and figuratively take on the farmer in order to collect nitrogen rights which are linked to a specific project. If an initiative does not proceed, the rights purchased will lapse, which means that new rights will have to be collected in subsequent initiatives. We don't think that's right. It has to do with the nitrogen bank, which is theoretical, but which, because the provinces are not ready, cannot really be filled. You're gonna get into this kind of trouble. What if a harborship buys out the farmers? If the initiative does not go ahead, it should be possible for the port authority to move on to another initiative. Will the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. A highly desirable instrument mentioned by the Remkes Committee is the checkable nitrogen balance. If it is developed, I admit that there are the necessary hooks and eyes on it, and that the government provides a solid tool to monitor and intervene, in addition to the possibility for the individual entrepreneur to make his business more sustainable. In the preliminary report, you are rather reluctant to answer my questions about this perhaps most important recommendation of the Remkes Committee. We would like to see the commitment that you will develop this and keep us informed of progress. Mr. Chairman. This proposal is a real compromise. That compromise also states that existing companies can be legalised without nitrogen permits. I think it has also been a hand-out to the SGP, for example. I am convinced that that part of the law has also moderated farmers. When your initial plan went to the House of Representatives, even before it was amended, farmers of Farmers Defence Force came to us, with horrible texts by the way, who asked to reject it. It's much quieter now. I think that has to do with this compromise. Moreover, this is a great compliment to the Minister, who has received all these different parties behind this bill. That's not easy. We also understand that you are proposing this. One has been completely in good faith. According to PAS regulations, the application for a permit was not necessary either. We understand that too, and we think it is important that these companies are clear as soon as possible. But the question is, what kind of nitrogen space does this cost? Is this space now available and at what rate and at what rate am I also joining Mr Prins of the CDA? Could it also be quicker if we buy the peak companies faster and take those rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u4	I would like to ask Mr Pijlman a question about legalising these PAS notifications. That's also happening around Lelystad Airport right now. Lelystad Airport requests an exemption for 10,000 flight movements per year, while the House of Representatives has declared the dossier controversial. I also know that D66 is critical of that. How do you feel about the fact that this legislation and these legalizations still grant 10,000 flight movements without compensation with Schiphol Airport, while Schiphol does not even know what its nitrogen space is? So, in line with your argument about this compensation, how do you view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u5	For me, it's important that we don't spend nitrogen rights that aren't deserved yet. You also know how critical we are about Lelystad Airport, and it remains true that we cannot do so. But on the other hand, there are also a lot of farmers, small businesses, who have been in good faith with the PAS legislation, which was not good. But the latter is more our fault than theirs. We understand very well that you say: yes, we want to do something about reasonableness, fairness. But I'm gonna say, there's got to be room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u6	But you wouldn't actually be on such a case as with Lelystad Airport, which is now trying to sneak through 10,000 flight movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u7	Again, I'm talking a lot more about these small businesses. The nitrogen chamber must be earned. And we are and remain critical of the need to open Lelystad airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u8	Perhaps Mr Pijlman will come to that, but I thought that perhaps this is a time when I have to ask my next question. Mr Pijlman started with the legal sustainability of the bill. In doing so, you have quickly exceeded the prohibition on deterioration, or perhaps you have not responded to it at all. Is there anything else you can say about that? How does the fraction of D66 view that? We do not know how to achieve the long-term goals. Then we know one thing for sure, namely that we are not sure that we are preventing deterioration. How is this law going to contribute to this in Mr Pijlman's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u9	In any case, the law is going to make a huge contribution to ensuring that this deterioration does not occur any further. I am extremely positive about that. In addition, there is 3 billion in that law for the strengthening of nature. Of course, that is very unique, and I do not understand very well the attitude of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that it does not agree with that. How long has it been since 3 billion has been earmarked for nature enhancement? Then there are also a lot of external factors that affect that nature; I will come to that immediately. But my group believes that it is very sensible at the moment to set these concrete targets now. That's what we do with each other, and that's what we're being monitored for, and we're building on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u10	I do not think Mr Pijlman's analysis is entirely correct. If we reduce nitrogen emissions, that does not mean that it goes to zero. So those fragile natural areas that are very sensitive to nitrogen deposition get extra nitrogen if you don't really make firm guarantees and take tough measures to make the nitrogen deposition there zero or even negative. Then those areas get extra nitrogen, when they can't have that. And that builds up, so that damage continues to increase. The legislative proposal does not include a priority treatment of very sensitive areas which are very resistant to nitrogen deposition, as compared to areas that might have a better chance of doing so. So that worsening ban is one of the reasons why GroenLinks is still very critical. Because those billions are beautiful, but they're mostly going to be in repairing the damage that you have to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u11	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u12	The prohibition on deterioration is elementary and, in my view, is not feasible with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u13	You are, of course, right: that deterioration is still there, because we are gradually reducing it. And we're supposed to go to zero in the end, but I admit right away: we still have a lot of steps to take. At the same time, you do not have any proposals to put an end to that tomorrow without the whole economy going down. So you have to find a balance in that. With these amendments by the House of Representatives, by De Groot and Futselaar, with concrete objectives and with that amount allocated to nature protection, I think you can make it clear that, unlike the PAS, you are now taking those steps to achieve that goal that we are both pursuing. We have supported the PAS, and I must say that we are very sorry. GroenLinks did not support the PAS, and Mrs Kluit was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u14	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u15	I agree with Mr Pijlman that we are taking steps. You can look at this law as "the glass is half full" or "the glass is half empty." Problem is, the judge looks at that differently. It looks at what is going on in the nature field and whether the Netherlands is maintaining the prohibition on deterioration, despite the economic development. Will the Netherlands do everything that it can to achieve this, with concrete measures that are becoming more vague in time and with a package of measures that still have a lot of room for manoeuvre? You mentioned that yourself: what do you get and what don't you get? We do not think it is strong enough yet, but we see, like you, that it is a step forward. But maybe that's what the PAS was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u16	Mr. Arrowman, let's finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u17	It's a bit of a rerun of moves. I said: legal sustainability, strong guarantees I cannot give either. But unlike the PAS, there are now concrete goals that you must maintain. Unlike the PAS, the Minister then acted very well and responded to the recommendations of the Council of State. That gives us sufficient confidence that this whole package is sufficient to continue it. Mr. Chairman. I was at the quick buy-up of the peak chargers and what possibilities that gives. I have said before that the system in which you earn space before you can spend it is very appealing to us, also in the context of legal sustainability. At the same time, however, we do not want the problem of nitrogen to stop or propose other necessary activities, such as housing, infrastructure and energy transition, to make it impossible for industry to be greened. And there's tension. On my questions, the Minister states in the preliminary report that, for example, she cannot guarantee that all housing plans can continue in the coastal provinces. We are very concerned about this, because it is precisely there that it is necessary to build these houses, where the need for housing is greatest and there too we are very dependent on external sea influences. You say that you cannot guarantee that, but then there are some additional measures to be taken. Would you care to comment on that? Because we all say it in this campaign: we have to build, build, build. Mr. Chairman. If I see correctly, the development space of 20 moles per hectare must also be earned by the source measures. This means that a generic reduction of 100 to 120 moles per hectare is needed over the next 9 years to meet the 50% target. That's where the development room comes in. Can the Minister state exactly how she intends to achieve this and how big the buy-in and buy-out programme is going to be in order to achieve these objectives without the economy closing down? How does the Minister estimate that emissions are falling very slowly due to internal and external netting? It's possible. Mr. Chairman. D66 would like the commitment that economic activities aimed at the energy transition and greening of the industry that we previously approved in the Energy Agreement and the Climate Agreement will not be delayed by the nitrogen problems. The nitrogen bank should be filled in such a way that these activities can go unhindered. I'd like a response and a commitment. Finally, a few brief questions. There is no solution for microdepositions yet. The plans for a microdeposition bank can wait a while. Is it possible to work up to that time with a threshold of, for example, 0.5 mole per hectare? The court ruling on PAS also destroyed a number of land use plans. That is not, of course, on your plate, but I assume that the cabinet will think about how things are getting back on track, as this is also needed in the case of housing development, for example. Mr. Chairman. With this legislation, the Minister has started to reduce nitrogen. Moreover, a great deal of money has been allocated to strengthening nature, and that is another compliment. But to achieve the objectives, there is still a great deal to be done, and I do not think this is the last time we will talk about this dossier. I think it will be discussed again at the formation. We would like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u18	I waited for Mr. Pijlman to finish his speech, and I thought, "Maybe he'll come back with it." Mr. Pijlman is talking about buying up peak chargers. For example, his party wants to halve the livestock. What do you get? Ammonia emissions come mainly from agriculture and so you are going to create space from agriculture for the other emission pillar, namely nitrogen oxides. You are also talking about legal feasibility. What do we see now? We can already see that the nitrogen oxides are above the emission ceilings as agreed. The ammonia emissions don't do that. The farmers are still under there. But now we're gonna cross over. Then we will no longer comply with the European agreement. Not that I have so much with that, but your party does have a lot to do with that. How are you going to explain that? How are you gonna fit that in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u19	You also know that agriculture is by far the largest polluter in terms of nature and nitrogen emissions. I just said they've done quite a bit, but still. This does not mean that others, such as industry, traffic and so on, do not have to act. There are many examples of this in the plans. We also know that manure policy and ammonia policy must be pursued and implemented. I have just said that this needs to be more coordinated and integrated, so that it is very clear and clear to that farmer what exactly he needs to meet in order to achieve sustainable farming and livestock farming in the Netherlands, including for his innovation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u20	I'll get a very comprehensive answer, but you'll ignore the fact that you're actually moving the problem, Mr. Arrowman. He's moving it from the ammonia pillar to the nitrogen oxide pillar. This is, in fact, much worse for public health, because the fine dust factor is increasing by twenty. So I do not think that we in the Netherlands are going to be healthier and happier, and yet you are going to do so. You are talking about legal feasibility, but this is not in line with the previous agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u21	I'm actually answering the same question again. Of course there must also be manure policy and ammonia policy. There's a deal about that. There is integration between these different aspects. I just don't think I can please you. We think that the intensity of livestock farming in the Netherlands is really too high. It is a very small country that is densely populated, but here is the highest intensity of animals per hectare. We do not think that is sustainable. I don't care about half or two thirds. I don't want to bid against each other. I want us to be able to live together in a healthy way. I want to be able to have a living and innovative economy, in which there is certainly a place for sustainable farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u22	Mrs Faber, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr President, I will ask a brief question. He can answer that very briefly. Are you therefore in favour or against exceeding the emission ceiling for nitrogen oxides?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u24	Mr Pijlman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u25	It's simple: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u26	If Mrs Faber says you have to answer yes or no, then you're sure I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u27	I shouldn't have said, "You have to." I should have asked: do you want answers with yes or no? You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I too begin by congratulating Mr Berkhout on his orator's debut, as the chairman called it. I also begin by thanking the Minister and the officials, not hers but LNV, for the many answers they have given. Mr. Chairman. On 29 May 2019, the world of the Nature Protection Act license stopped. We all know what that meant. We had to do something and some things became clear. You can't live on the nitrogen puff anymore. I think I heard Mr Janssen use exactly the same words. The second point is that, as a country, we have, with our own open eyes, identified and notified the Natura 2000 sites and their conservation objectives in Brussels. So that is what Brussels is going to hold us to now. I'll come back to that later. The way out is complex, but doing nothing is not an option, because then many economic activities will be shut down. Among other things, there has been a great legal certainty for the PAS detectors. That is what all the previous speakers have been talking about a long time ago. Mr. Chairman. In our view, the government has taken a vigorous approach to the issue. Two advisory colleges have been set up and two intermediate steps have been taken, namely the known 100 km/h and an extension of the reform scheme for pig farming, which has enabled at least housing and seven major infrastructure projects to continue in 2020. In addition, by the end of 2020, agreement was reached with the twelve provinces on the area-based approach through the nature improvement programme. These programmes will have to be completed in two years' time and then eight years for implementation. In parallel to these practical matters, the present legislative proposal has been designed. Mr. Chairman. I must admit that my speech contains two parts which are somewhat mixed up: how effective can this proposal be and how feasible are the proposals and the agreements? I want to start with effectiveness. The policy set out in the present legislative proposal consists of three pillars. First of all, abandonment schemes for livestock farming and innovation subsidies for livestock farming and other sectors, aimed at prevention. Secondly, support policy with regard to the intensification of agricultural practice, aimed at prevention and sometimes also transformation of land use. Thirdly, a redevelopment, in some places, of nature areas or their surroundings, with the aim of restoring the overload of nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites, prevention against further deterioration of the current situation and, in some cases, transformation of an area by a different allocation of functions. In other words, recovery, prevention and spatial transformation in parallel. After the detailed examination in the Lower House, where the law has also been supplemented on important points according to the VVD's group, in our view there is a proposal that can certainly be effective on purpose. I would like to mention a number of important points of interest to my group. The basis is the commitment to the restoration of nature in Natura 2000 sites. As these areas are in a better state of health, i.e. the critical deposition value goes up, there are fewer licensing problems. It is striking, however, that the 3 billion reserved can only be spent in the Natura 2000 sites. How effective is that, knowing that the construction of buffer zones adjacent to those Natura 2000 sites can contribute a great deal to the desired recovery? We would like to hear the logic behind it from the Minister. Our second point of attention is the full commitment to innovation. There are a lot of innovative techniques in development. Innovation is, in principle, more cost-effective than buying out in the agricultural sector and also offers a future perspective to agriculture. Stricter standards over time for proven innovations are, in the long term, a logical follow-up step to highlight emission prevention and to highlight the value of innovation. In addition, there is a subsidy scheme for switching to extensive agriculture. In addition to purely technical innovative measures, subsidies are available for other farm management, such as longer grazing or a lower raw protein content in animal feed, to be achieved in consultation with the Agriculture Collective. For farmers who want to stop and thus contribute to the solution of the nitrogen problem, there is a proper buying-out scheme. By legally defining the robust result obligation for 2025, 2030 and 2035 a partial exemption from construction activities in the construction phase can be achieved. It is legally established that PAS-detectors........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Without a permit, they're outlaws. It just seems like it's gonna take a long time. Our question is whether this can be accelerated. How about we ask the government, with the interims? There will be an agreement on agriculture as an eighth point, that is the planning. This agreement is aimed at all partners in the chain: farmers, food industry and food industry. It is intended to establish a earning model for agricultural holdings for a longer period of time. We would like to hear the Minister confirm that developing an income model for agricultural holdings is and will continue to be the main objective. After all, the success of this law is greatly appreciated by a strong agricultural sector. Interesting about this is the possibility to retain land after the end of the current agricultural operation. After all, not land ownership itself, but current use gives rise to the problem. We read that the Minister of LNV is going to make an effort in Europe to ensure that land purchase does not become a mandatory condition in the national termination scheme. The question is, where are we on that? With regard to the sixth point I have just mentioned, the partial exemption for construction activities, the following. Construction cranes, concrete trucks, shovels are all gonna have to plug in later. Fortunately, these developments are already visible. This is evident, among other things, from an article in Trouw dated 12 February. Our question is whether the grid companies will be ready in time to realize the necessary giga sockets. Because what's the point of a one-billion-dollar grant if you can't plug it in? How and when is the Minister going to advocate this sine qua non with her colleague from EZ? Or has she already done that? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the key question is whether this bill, with which the government is aiming at a structural approach to the nitrogen problems, is going to meet the targets set for the critical deposition value. I told you, we are confident that this can be done. The PBL, a bit of our national conscience when it comes to developments in the living environment, has passed on the 2030 target and considers it feasible with the set package of measures. In doing so, the Empire has not counted itself rich, as we have read, and a considerable margin has been calculated for unforeseen setbacks. The VVD Group considers both points to be an important signal. The sustainability measures agreed in the Climate Agreement will also bear fruit during this period. We are talking about making industry and shipping more sustainable, for example, the switch to electric driving or hydrogen mobility. This reduces CO and nitrogen emissions. However, there is a limit to the feasibility due to, for example, climate change or nitrogen supply from abroad. The natural yield must also be in a real relationship with the efforts to be made and the costs to be incurred. After all, no one has been kept to the impossible. I refer, among other things, to the answers to questions 11 and 12 in the further reply. This aspect has been incorporated into the law as a hardness clause. What space does the government have in this respect, apart from the time aspect? Moreover, the Empire has completed a screening of the Natura 2000 sites, also an important point for the VVD group in the light of the intended effectiveness. On the basis of this review, the Government recognises that the Natura 2000 objectives can be achieved more effectively in some places through, for example, clean-up, reclassification or expansion of sites. The discussion on this specific point also took place in detail with this Minister during the debate on the Nature Supplementary Act. Mr President, should I finish this heading before Mrs Kluit asks a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u30	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u31	Let's see, I was at the Supplementary Nature Act. During that debate, the Minister was still somewhat reluctant to discuss this with the European Commission. This law, with the above-mentioned hardness clause, is now before us. Members of my group understand very well that Brussels may feel like Canosa to the Minister, but the need is obvious. The Minister also refers to this when replying to question 71 in the further reply. Can the Minister outline to us the route to be followed, both in terms of content and timing? In doing so, the VVD Group understands the logical order of things. The Minister probably needs the present law as a basis for starting a discussion in Brussels at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mrs Klip just spoke about the effectiveness of the policy. It was about whether it is still feasible and affordable to achieve the targets in the Natura 2000 sites. This stems from the first vision I mentioned, in which nature is at the service of man. There are also other visions, which say that nature has intrinsic value, of itself, and that all species within that nature also have intrinsic value, of themselves. We come from a situation that has been handed in by nature in the Netherlands for a century. The decline is still going on every year. At what point is the VVD's group going to argue in favour of making efficient policies aimed at restoring and preserving the species in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u33	I think that by supporting this bill, among other things, we are already doing so. What I am saying about these Natura 2000 sites and the hardness clause introduced by the House of Representatives in this law is that we are absolutely not talking about reducing Natura 2000 sites or reducing the targets. We are concerned that we should take another critical look at where we have actually laid down these Natura 2000 objectives. And then I think that GroenLinks will also know that not every Natura 2000 site, with its objectives, has ended up in the most logical place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u34	I agree with Mrs Klip, but these Natura 2000 sites have ended up there because elsewhere more suitable sites have already been sacrificed to urban or agriculture. To sacrifice those places, which may be suboptimal to preserve these natural values, that's quite cynical, but I'm trying to avoid that word. I would be in favour of this, and I think it is also a more credible argument from the parties to say: it may not be feasible, but we will conclude that at the very end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u35	Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u36	Well, no, I think that is what we are now seeing, including in the light of the survey carried out by the government on the Natura 2000 sites. And again, the VVD Group does not intend to reduce or diminish its objectives at all, but to look at, with today's glasses, whether all those natural areas are exactly in the logical place. And I shall come back to that in a moment, and I have not actually heard my predecessors say that there is also a spatial planning aspect to this whole process. You will also know, for example, that without having a debate on the objectives, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one of the species protected in our country was blue-grained. They were very scarce. We are extremely successful in this, because we are now dying of the blue-gras lands in the Netherlands. Well, can you just take a critical look at whether they're all in the right place and, if so, if you could maybe expand nature reserves so that they can be more robust and better off with a nitrogen bump?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u37	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u38	Yes, that would certainly be a very attractive route as far as I'm concerned. Only, I note that the approach to this, i.e. the actual realization of additional natural values outside these Natura 2000 sites, comes only slightly off the ground, with the example you mention, of course, one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u40	Mr President, I shall continue. In the further reply, we also read that the Minister is now engaged in discussions with neighbouring countries on the cross-border approach to the problem of nitrogen. Model calculations seen by the fraction of the VVD show that we export more nitrogen than we import, both the NOs and ammonia. If that is the case, we ask the Minister. And if that is the case, what effect has this given in relation to the talks with neighbouring countries on our own stated objectives? After all, they see a reduction in the internal nitrogen deposition. And how are these talks going, we ask the Minister, because if we also have to reduce our exports, then should our national emissions not go down any further than is now in the law, or do we see that wrong? Our final point on effectiveness concerns a recent study by Mr Jan Willem Erisman, professor at the University of Leiden. I think I heard Mr Koffeman mention that name. Together with Gispoint, he developed the Nitrogen Deposition Contribution Card for effective emission reduction from agriculture. The starting point is that there are many sources that contribute to the nitrogen surplus in the protected Natura 2000 sites. And nature and agricultural areas are scattered around the Netherlands like a patchwork. For this research, the map of the Netherlands has been divided into compartments of one kilometre, and for each box it has been calculated where nitrogen emissions come from that box. And what's the outcome? That areas with a relatively high deposition effect appear to lie mainly in the Gelderse Valley and on the sandy soils in Brabant, Overijssel, Gelderland and Drenthe. These areas have two other things in common: they are mainly areas with a central location, allowing nitrogen to spread easily to all surrounding nature areas; and these areas also have more worrying aspects, such as poor soil quality and high nutrient leaching nitrate and phosphate to groundwater. The research shows that with the same reduction in nitrogen emissions but with more focus on a more limited number of sites, you will have a much greater impact on Natura 2000 sites than with the present approach. And then you're still talking about area-oriented policies, about generic policies, but more territorially applied. So it's not necessarily about forced buying up, but more about focusing on a number of areas. How could you possibly have a relationship here with the National Programme of Rural Areas, we ask the Minister. And then I'll be at the heading of feasibility. Under this heading the VVD Group focuses on two points: the registration and monitoring system and the relationship with other urgently desired spatial developments. The VVD Group has already asked questions about the nitrogen registration system and the storage functions for those spare nitrogen spaces. How can we find a good balance between not spilling nitrogen space on the one hand and a complicated administrative system on the other, so that the feasibility remains feasible for everyone and the paper results are as close to the truth as possible, we ask the Minister. It is not easy to intervene in our current, often long-term use of space and in the management of farms, including farms. The VVD Group is well aware of this. However, there is no choice. The way out is complex, but intervention in the current course of events is inevitable. An extensive measurement and monitoring system allows us to keep the finger on the nitrogen pulse. However, it is essential for the support base to be trusted in the systems and models used. There's still a point. That also came out a lot more often. Of course, the VVD Group is not deaf or blind to the many alarm messages that have been sent to us, especially from the agricultural sector. For example about the calculation tool AERIUS, which is filled on the basis of old maps and assumptions. And that while companies are paid for 0.05 moles. Mr. Chairman. I have to add that, just before we started again, I was given an app that there are many hexagons that count in this AERIUS system, but that are completely outside the Natura 2000 sites. How is the Minister going to bring these two worlds closer together? A knowledge programme is being set up to improve measurement and calculation systems. That's good. But as far as the AERIUS system is concerned, this is really a bloody situation. How is the Minister going to ensure that the highest possible pace is used in the promised improvement of AERIUS? I would like to hear a commitment from the Minister on this. I have also heard Mrs Prins and Mr Pijlman say something about this. Mr. Chairman. The present bill deals with nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement, but in the view of the VVD Group, it can only be optimally implemented if a link is established with other necessary spatial plans. Last year, the Planning Office for the Environment identified four current, important societal themes, expressed as a relationship between specific, desired, necessary developments. Then you are talking about the relationship between urban and rural areas, in which natural housing, recreational opportunities and mobility come to the fore. You're talking about nature versus agriculture. We are talking about nitrogen problems, but also about food supply, biodiversity, animal welfare, health and drought. Then you also talk about climate change, with the adaptation on the one hand and the energy transition, so the mitigation, on the other hand, and the circular economy. A common denominator for these four themes is that they all have a relationship with space fittings and thus with spatial design. In other words, they all compete among themselves for the limited space available in our densely populated delta. For a sustainable, long-term, effective solution, one should approach several aspects in their coherence, for example, combining the redesign of nature areas in the context of restoring nitrogen irreversibility with the prevention of dehydration, by taking groundwater measures at the same time. And so many more potentially successful combinations are worth investigating. The Study Group on Spatial Planning Rural Areas has been commissioned to develop policy options for spatial choices. This will also involve a change in land use. So it's a spatial transformation. The government suggests the possibility to look at the results of this process in the light of the suggestion of the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems to start thinking in green, orange and red areas and to do so within the National Programme on Rural Areas. When this becomes clearer, we ask the Minister. How does the government see such a path? Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group supports the recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems that everyone should contribute proportionally to the solution and that structural solutions should be found for a sustainable restoration of the relationship between nature and economic development. This is clearly more difficult in a densely populated country like the Netherlands than in Sweden, for example. But now to make well-thought-out decisions and implement them carefully and at the right pace is the only way for the VVD Group to move towards a developing economy, forward-looking agriculture, both intensively and extensively, and towards a realistic nature policy. The planned periods of five, ten and fifteen years from now seem to us to be a more than serious start. It's about dividing up scarce space. This law is a first step. However, there is or is the feasibility of the goals with smart and above all fair monitoring, whereby government and both Chambers should be prepared to adjust the sails if necessary, running the route. Previous speakers have already mentioned this in all kinds of different terms. What is the Minister's view of this process of any necessary change of direction and possible additional regulation? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, solving the nitrogen problem is not an isolated process, but part of a collaboration with other desired developments that require space. As an introduction to our last question, I have three quotes. The Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems gave its final report the title "Not everything can be done everywhere." We would like to say that not everything can go anywhere. A second quote comes from an interview with the new president of VNO-NCW, Ingrid Thijssen, in the Gelderlander. She says: "There's always a lot of looking at the financial space, but it's the nitrogen space, stupid!" In Trouw of 31 January, there was an article by Caspar van den Berg, Professor of Public Administration at the University of Groningen, and Annemarie Kok, independent researcher, entitled "The regions are often treated as difficult children." This document focuses on the problems that addressing climate change and energy transition, including issues from that PBL list that I mentioned earlier. It is no longer the technical and financial aspects that cause stagnation, but questions of a spatial and also administrative nature. And that means that the space-demanding solutions to be found for residents of the metropolitan Netherlands mean something different than for the inhabitants of the rural, somewhat thinner populated area. Political wishes and spatial sacrifices vary geographically, according to the mentioned Trouw-article. The same applies to the problem of nitrogen. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is convinced that the proposed policy can gain strength as part of a more comprehensive spatial vision. And there is, because that's the NOVI. How is the government going to ensure that the spatial conditions of the proposed policy are really approached through the Novi line? Because sticking a nitrogen patch alone is not enough for the long term. We would also like to receive a convincing commitment from the Minister on this. And as always, we are very interested in the government's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mrs Klip-Martin. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u42	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, of course, to Mr Berkhout for his maiden speech and also to Mr Karakus as a new member of this Chamber. Mr President, you know that my roots are in Limburg. Limburgers are known for their joy in life, for their joie de vivre, for André Rieu and for their humorous character in which I think for example of Toon Hermans, one of the country's best cabaretiers. Angry tongues claim that that last characteristic, that humor of Toon, could have anything to do with today's agenda, because about 80 years ago, in the early thirties of the last century, the first and largest nitrogen binding company in the country was founded in Limburg, to be precise in the city of Toon. With the residual product of the black gold, the coal, the SBB made the white gold by binding the nitrogen from coal into fertilizer through an ingenious chemical process, in which ammonia also played an important role. Fertilisers were transported all over the world and transformed barren solaceless soils into fertile agricultural lands. Limburg but also the Netherlands provided food and prosperity in all corners of the world. The air pollution around the habitat of the region of Toon, which emerged during the production process, had to increase the local population on sale for decades. The air in our parts regularly colored golden brownish due to the excess nitrogen discharges, but that was no harm in those heydays, so the neighbors were always told. Today, fertilizer is still produced at the same location. The company's name is now OCI Nitrogen and it has a turnover of 0.75 billion; it no longer works with coal, but with fossil fuels natural gas and naphtha. The nitrogen is now being captured, so that the production process is less environmentally harmful. If we succeed in replacing fossil fuel with renewable energy sources based on waste and hydrogen in the coming decades, we will see zero emissions from nitrogen production. It is an integrated and innovative approach that deserves to be followed, including in other measures we are discussing today on the problem of nitrogen. I call on the Minister to fully support this extensive transition process of the Limburg chemical industry, because that means 'big steps, fast at home' in the fight against the reduction of harmful emissions, on an industrial scale, of nitrogen, but also of CO and other substances. What does all this have to do with the humorous traits of Toon Hermans and the Limburgers? Well, about two years ago it was discovered by chance that for a large number of decades there have been continuously unacceptable large-scale emissions of the substance nitrous oxide, formerly nitrogenoxydule. This is an inorganic compound of nitrogen and oxygen, with the gross formula NO. I'll take a look around; the chemists will now know what it's about. Meanwhile, this fabric is also widely used at parties among young people to get into a funny atmosphere, and the police are not happy with this development. This substance is better known as nitrous oxide. That is of course the link with Toon Hermans. Unlike the name suggests, nitrous oxide is a dirty, dangerous substance. Laugh gas is 265 times as strong as CO as greenhouse gas. To date, no scientific research has been carried out on or evidence of the idea that the illegal emissions of nitrous oxide into Toon Hermans' city has given him his pleasant humorous traits. It might be interesting to do a scientific study on this. In such a study we might also consider that these illegal emissions have contributed to the fatal consequences of the long disease process of former miners as a result of this unacceptable nitrous oxide pollution. This example shows how difficult the debate on the harmfulness of nitrogen is. 80% of the air we breathe consists of nitrogen, so man obviously needs it. In the case of a smaller or larger proportion, the balance quickly goes through and causes great damage to humans, animals and vegetation. It's dancing on a cord. That is difficult to explain to ordinary mortals like myself and often even elusive to businesses, institutions and farms that are involved in it on a daily basis. This leads to incomprehension of the measures that the government must or will take to restore the right balance. The farmers' protests are, of course, very explainable in that context. Over the decades, denial of the harmful effects of nitrogen on the environment by successive cabinets and parliaments has led to the enormous task we now face as a society. The government is now coming up with measures which may not go far enough for some and may be too far-reaching for others. In itself, it is to be appreciated that at least the Minister is sticking her neck out. The impact of the proposed nitrogen law countries mainly in agriculture or livestock farming, housing, mobility and industry. It seems that the Randstad will benefit most from the measures and that the regions of Friesland, Groningen, Drenthe, Zeeland, Brabant and Limburg should make the greatest contribution. In an objective environmental and health comparison, the Randstad appears to be very poor. This is evident from the publication of RTL News some time ago, from an opinion from RIVM and from scientific research. Most measures should also be taken there, because around Schiphol, Amsterdam and Rotterdam the risk of disease and premature death due to polluted air or noise from traffic, industry and aviation is sometimes three times greater than in Drenthe, in Groningen or in the islands. As a result, peripherals have an increased risk of, for example, cardiovascular disease and serious lung disease. It's not a little bit of a problem, it's really a huge problem. It's about thousands of people. These factors kill 10 to 15 times more people than accidents in traffic. The Randstad is one of the most polluted areas in Europe and yet many people live together and want to live there. In short, new developments need to be slowed down in the Randstad, but what do we see? No restrictions on air traffic at Schiphol Airport, no large-scale actions to reduce mobility, unbridled job growth in an overheated labour market, no construction stop, but rigorous plans to expand housing. In this case, that looks a bit like gallows humor. At the same time, shrinkage regions, where most nitrogen measures have to be implemented, are becoming increasingly popular. Greening in the shrinking regions due to insufficient supply of high-quality education, large-scale events and entertainment for young people in the region, increasing ageing in the shrinking regions with above-average municipal and provincial support for care, well-being and income, calving of financial support for the maintenance of municipal facilities and increasing pressure on the maintenance of employment. In the last year, even to a greater extent because of the effects of the corona pandemic. On top of that, the regions are required to make disproportionate contributions by combating nitrogen and climate problems. Conclusion, President: The Netherlands has a serious problem of distribution. There is a need to intervene considerably, because the quality of life is under pressure throughout the Netherlands. Where there is little room for relief in the Randstad, the regions can help to give more space for development. In this context, nitrogen and climate policy must function as a kind of opportunity map for the regions. Reduce where it should, stimulate where it can, so that the Netherlands as a whole gets better. Use the billions for nitrogen and climate as a reward instead of a threat. Provide farmers in the regions with a view to a sustainable future, including a financial perspective when reducing their farms. Offer shrinkage regions the opportunity to transform agricultural land into building land, so that the pressure on housing in the Randstad can be solved. Until 2030, one million beautiful, inexpensive, climate-neutral homes. Should they be in the Randstad or in open areas with good facilities around the corner? The Netherlands is at a turning point. Are we looking at the problems of nitrogen, but also of climate, sectoral or integral? Can lessons from the conversion of the nitrogen binding companies from the last century, from nitrous oxide to climate-neutral be taken into account, but also, for example, mobility lessons from the corona pandemic? Homework without nitrogen production. The OSF wants to turn the threats into opportunities. We are aware that measures must now be adopted in the context of the problem of nitrogen. We ask the Cabinet to apply the principle of remuneration. Threat is counterproductive. Offer the regions wide development opportunities so that the problems of living in the Randstad can be solved. The creation of a revolving fund for viability for regional development and the promotion of individual commitment can be an important incentive to accelerate. Finally, I'm well over time, so I'm gonna be betting on the 80-20 rule: repairing peak loaders and pig farmers; big steps, fast at home, so that everyone can continue to laugh without any nitrous gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u44	First of all, on behalf of our group, congratulations to Mr Berkhout on his maiden speech earlier today. Mr. Chairman. "We didn't realize this mess. This was done under the leadership of this minister and her predecessors and due to the total lack of direction of Prime Minister Rutte." I spoke these words in the First Chamber on 17 December 2019, again fourteen months ago, during the debate on the legal panic football on the Emergency Law approach to nitrogen. It was necessary at that time because the entire Dutch economy threatened to fall silent as a result of the nitrogen fiasco of this cabinet, after the Council of State had shattered PAS legislation. While the Binnenhof that memorable evening of 17 December 2019 was stormed by farmers with tractors, who had just been called up from the group offices of a political group in the House of Representatives, we voted here under loud claxing of tractors on this emergency law to avert an immediate economic recession for the Netherlands. That recession eventually came about because of the corona pandemic, but we could not foresee that at the time. There was still a great deal of sympathy for the farmers back then. Unfortunately this has now become a lot less, because a group of radicalized farmers, especially the Farmers Defence Force, took the lead and decided the image. They also started intimidating politicians. I can talk about that personally. The enormous sympathy of the people for the farmers in 2019 was quickly lost in this way. That is a great pity and it would not have been necessary. CDA North Brabant even gave in to this unacceptable pressure and in blind panic blew up the Brabant coalition in the Provincial States. Mr. Chairman. The core problem of nitrogen in the Netherlands is the stamp approach of Natura 2000 sites. There are too many small Natura 2000 sites that are not robust or robust. A stamp collector would lick his fingers with it, I said in 2019. Ecologists also point out that this stamp approach cannot achieve an improvement in biodiversity. This requires robust areas, as ecologists also think. It is therefore necessary to rationalise the Natura 2000 sites. At the end of 2019, our group strongly urged the cabinet to do so. This was then promised from the cabinet and also by this minister in the Upper Chamber. During the General Reviews on 29 October 2019, our group already tabled a motion in this Chamber to rationalise the Natura 2000 sites and called on the government to discuss this with the EU quickly. The cabinet and the Minister of Agriculture initially seemed to go along with this, as was shown by the letter on page 5, for the Minister's lovers on 13 November 2019. But what happened to that? Following the emergency law with "sustainable" there he was again, chairman of the steam and boiling water committee, with the intention of rationalizing the Natura 2000 sites, little more has been heard from the cabinet. So you never get biodiversity like that. I'm not just saying that. That's what the ecologists say. Then the same policy will be applied again, but now with more money, EUR 5 billion as much as possible. Stupidity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results, Einstein said 100 years ago. And again a bureaucratic jungle of rules and calculation models is being rigged up and a surrealistic accounting around the nitrogen has been created with highly complex and inimitable netting algorithms. A number of other groups have already recalled that it creates a great deal of uncertainty and legal uncertainty. The key problem of the nitrogen crisis is that in the past far too many small areas have been designated as Natura 2000. The Birds and Habitats Directives have been implemented by the Netherlands, which always wants to be the best boy in the EU, far beyond what is strictly necessary. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether any action has been taken towards the EU to explore the possibilities of rationalizing the Natura 2000 sites. Or was this intention put in a drawer somewhere after the fire was put out with the emergency bill? Please explain to the Minister on this point. Experience has shown that if you want results in Brussels, you have to ring the bells hard and repeatedly and hit the table with your fist. Our group calls this an assertive attitude towards the EU. After all, this country is a major net contributor to the EU. We're gonna have to pay for that sometime. I would like a clear and concrete answer from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The present bill provides €5 billion for the period up to 2030: €2 billion for the provision of source measures and €3 billion for nature measures, plus €100 million per year until 2030 for partial exemptions for construction. So actually a sloppy 6 billion to 2030. In doing so, the cabinet gives a high view of the integrated approach. What exactly is that, an integral approach? An integrated approach means measures in conjunction with the Climate Agreement, the National Environment Vision, the Water Framework Directive, the Climate Adaptation Management Agreement, the National Knowledge Programme Soil Reduction, the broad peat meadow issue, sustainable mobility, circular agriculture and low emissions agriculture, circular economy, the Clean Air Agreement and the NEC objectives. If that is not an integrated approach, then I don't remember either. Our group has serious doubts as to whether this is feasible in practice by the provinces. We would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. The aim of the present legislative proposal is to ensure that by 2030 the percentage of the area of habitats susceptible to nitrogen in Natura 2000 areas where the deposition of nitrogen does not exceed the mole per hectare per year above which deterioration in the quality of those habitats cannot be ruled out in advance is at least 50%. That's a mouthful, but how do you measure that? And who decides whether or not it can be ruled out in advance? It seems rather arbitrary to us. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. The cabinet also says that cost-effectiveness, implementation and regulatory pressure have been explicitly taken into account in this regulation. Can the Minister explain how this has been taken into account in concrete terms? Mr. Chairman. Our group still has questions about buying up the peak chargers. Provinces get budget from the Empire for buying up peak loaders. Can the Minister state in detail what amounts are involved per province per year? How is the value determined when buying those peak chargers? Is it an idea, for example, to speed up the buy-up of the peak chargers? Our group believes that this might be more effective. And how does this relate to the national termination scheme? Finally, the Minister states that in the period 2021-2030 an annual amount of up to EUR 300 million per year will be used to step up nature policy through the Nature Pact. We would like to hear from the Minister how she intends to spend these amounts in concrete terms. Can you identify spearheads in this? Is it sent for robustness or are we just adding some stamps and making the small stamps into a little less small stamps? I would like a specific explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, our group has another suggestion for the Minister. As we know, there are billions of euros available from the European Union, the so-called European Recovery Fund. In practice, this amounts mainly to hundreds of billions for Commissioner Timmermans' Green Deal, through joint debt-taking. The Italians have just appointed Mario Draghi prime minister. In particular, it has the task of bringing in the EUR 209 billion from the EU Restoration Fund for Italy as soon as possible. The Netherlands is, as has been said, the "most netost payer', as the Prime Minister always says. Has the government also considered the possibility of financing these billions, which cost nitrogen, in a creative way, partly from this European Recovery Fund? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the discussion with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u45	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I note that this is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting, also in connection with a number of committee meetings, until 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u46	I'm reopening the meeting. We need the Minister's answer in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of this Chamber for finally allowing us to deal with the law. It's a big law. We've spent a whole day trying to deal with this law. That's not for nothing, because it's about something. I think this was also very clear in the contributions of several Members of your Chamber. If you look at it for a sec, we're talking about nitrogen reduction and nature recovery. But if you zoom out, there are a lot of questions here, such as spatial planning issues. What room do we have? Who are we gonna charge it for? What does this mean for the underlying transformations? Those are questions that a lot of people have feelings about. That's what you notice in society. It's not a law that passed quietly. It's a law that raised a lot of questions. Underneath, I think there is always the following pressing question from the parties: "Is there still room for me? Is there room in the Netherlands for the activities I am working on?" At the same time, the best answer we can give is: achieving nature recovery is the fastest way to ensure that there is also room for all kinds of activities. This also means that we will have to cooperate with each other in order to move forward. This is not only a cooperation between political parties, but also a political cooperation with all kinds of groups in society. I think we should try to avoid putting groups against each other, and I tried to do that with this law, because that's actually very easy to realize if you don't do this right. That's also a task I do for myself every day. The choices have to be made. These are choices in which a number of changes are really going to occur. These changes are not easy. We can only do this by offering the opportunity to make that change and to take the time to do so, but also by working together and not coming up against each other. I'm lucky to taste that ghost here in this room. We can all differ on which groups and what matters we want to give priority. In the end, this is also the political debate to be held here, in addition, of course, to the substantive aspects of the law, such as its legal sustainability and its feasibility, on which your Chamber is strongly reviewing. I hope, in that spirit, that we can conduct the legal process here. Mr. Chairman. As it always befits you, I have some cubes. That makes it a little more straightforward, especially because of the amount of questions asked. The first general block concerns ambition, objective and legal sustainability. Then there's a block of nature. Then there's a block of agriculture. That's also about the peak chargers and the PAS detectors. Then a block of provinces. Then a block of consent and registration. That's a bit wider block on those parts. A few other questions from your members. Then you can keep a little record of what's going to happen. Mr. Chairman. The foundation of this law, I think, is also the foundation that we are all trying to lay for the future. The foundation consists of a number of elements: a stronger ecosystem, space for economic development, perspective for many parties and a stable spatial design. The law sets clear objectives. In doing so, we give clarity to the parties about the direction we are going with each other. I believe that this is also necessary, precisely in order to increase the predictability of this policy. The present state of nature obliges us to make a considerable effort to recover and improve. This has also been demonstrated by the ruling of the Council of State of May 2019; your members have already referred to it. The law also has a clear obligation to achieve results, which means that there is no commitment to nature's obligations. In several ways, the law also ensures that the various source and nature measures will have the necessary effects on nature conservation and restoration. A comprehensive monitoring and adjustment system has been included. Coherence between the different parts of the programme is also regulated and the role of the provinces is important. Within two years of the entry into force of the law, each province will draw up a provincial area plan with an area-specific impact of the nature and source measures. But the law rules even more. The cabinet considers the legalisation of the reports to be of the utmost importance. Therefore, it is also laid down by law that notifications and reporting-free activities are legalised. A legalisation programme shall be drawn up for this purpose. The Act also provides for an exemption from the Natura 2000 permit for temporary nitrogen depositions of construction, demolition and construction activities. It's popularly called the building exemption, but it's a little wider than construction. It is a matter of temporary depositions in the construction phase. This applies not only to the construction of housing, which is facilitated and where there is a great social challenge, but also, for example, to the realisation of energy projects and other important economic and social projects. The legislative proposal, which brings together the various elements of the structural approach, also lays the foundation for a sustainable nitrogen approach. Long-term agreements have been made on this subject with the necessary resources. The effort required from many parties is considerable. I do not deny that, but with this law, I have every confidence that we can also take action and achieve the objectives together. Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks asks whether this bill actually provides for what it is intended for: a resilient nature and ecological resilience. I would also like to thank her very much for the book I have received from her. I took a quick look at it. It describes the different perspectives and how we have tried to shape them together as a society. Her introduction appealed to me very much, in the sense that we can all look at the problem from a different perspective, but that we all have the responsibility to tackle it, even though we may do so from different beliefs or viewpoints. That's how it's supposed to be in this house, I guess. So thank you for that. When it's all over and I have time, I'm gonna read it. The question was whether the law actually does what he has to do, so whether he takes care of good nature. I am convinced that precisely the three tracks contained in the bill are nitrogen reduction, nature restoration, but also a more natural design of our entire country on all factors that make nature more robust and resilient. For example, you can improve a lot with nature restoration, but if other functions remain separate from them, for example by not looking at how to do that including nature, you miss a lot of opportunities to make nature more resilient. That is why we have also put our finger on all three tracks, which we believe all three are needed. Several members of this house, including Mrs Kluit, have asked an important question about the so-called prohibition on deterioration. How does that relate to this bill? The structural package helps to ensure that the Netherlands continues to comply with the prohibition of deterioration. For example, the package of measures contributes to the further reduction of nitrogen deposition in all Natura 2000 sites. This reduction is necessary in order to reduce the deterioration and achieve the conservation objectives in the long term. Source measures alone are not enough, I say, because, among other things, accumulation of nitrogen deposition from the past still creates bottlenecks in the soil. It's just completely full; let's just put it this way. That's why you need a big investment in environmental improvement, in nature measures. That's part of this package. We have earmarked EUR 3 billion for this. This way you can also work long-term to restore nature. In addition, as has been said, we have a monitoring and adjustment system, which must ensure that a threat of deterioration is detected in good time, so that we can intervene in good time if that would be necessary. If there are areas where there is a deterioration, additional measures, whether regional or non-regional, will have to be taken to prevent deterioration. It is therefore not just the package of source measures for nitrogen reduction, but the whole, the totality, which contributes to ensuring that this deterioration does not occur. That is the starting point of this law. Mr Janssen asks: can the Minister confirm that the law works in such a way that those buttons will be turned on time if those objectives are not met? Are the measures the key to achieving these objectives within the time allowed? I can confirm that. With the legislative proposal, the result-mandatory environmental values are legally anchored for 2025, 2030 and 2035. It is precisely the measures that are all aimed at, and we have completed them up to 2030; I will get to the 2030-2035 route how exactly we want to do that and how we are going to measure whether it is being implemented. This is therefore closely monitored so that the measures can be adjusted if necessary. Your Chamber has also asked me: when do we know when all these measures will have to be implemented? This is part of the programme that we are currently preparing and which will have to be adopted before the summer. It sets out the measures to be taken at what point in time so that monitoring and adjustment can be considered. If you see that you're behind, you're gonna need a tooth. The moment you see that certain things cannot be realized, you may also have to think about alternatives. This is all part of the programme and I would like to send it to your Chamber before the summer, so that you can look at it yourself. Mr Recourt asked how this law would achieve legal certainty. This bill provides clarity through a long look-through with result-mandatory goals and a long-term programme to achieve this. This also offers certainty, for example, if you want to adapt your company with investments that need to be done etc. The core of the bill is that it should lead to improvement of nature. If nature is better, then other activities will also become possible and thus have less negative effects on a nature reserve. If that happens, there will be less discussion in court about the admissibility of those activities. That also serves legal certainty. Mr Janssen asks: are the measures being scaled down if the targets are achieved more quickly? Let's say it's all going really well. I hope so; it would be very nice. If the goals are achieved faster, there are several advantages. The less nitrogen overload there is, the faster nature will be able to recover. This robust nature is therefore important for the granting of permits. The sooner an area is below the critical deposition value, the more space is created for other economic and social developments. These alone are important reasons for getting to work quickly and for making the meters that we also need to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u48	About legal security. The judge will, of course, review an individual plan, in which a decision, or whatever, is made for an individual Natura 2000 site, for an individual project. Now I understand from the Minister: it becomes less or more deposition. That's the bottom line. This applies to some regions differently from other regions. My question now is: how can the Minister say on that individual judge's test that it is going to be okay, for example in the case of construction projects close to the southern Dutch dunes or other sensitive areas? It's hard to tell, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u49	There is one step for that, because before it gets to court, a permit must first be granted. The competent authority must check whether there is no deterioration of a situation due to an activity taking place in the area. It will be easier to meet this requirement if we take the source measures, so if the nitrogen blanket, as we call it, becomes less. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands. We have to improve it everywhere. There are areas that are already in the green zone; let me put it this way. Then you just know you're in the right place and you're in the right place. There will also remain areas that have not yet been sufficiently realised. Then it will be possible for a competent authority at that time to say: there will have to be a bit of a tooth here, because we will not be able to make it this way. You'll have to look for sources in that area, too, to make sure you don't overload an area with your activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u50	I get that. The part about supplementing if it's not enough is a good part of the law. But I don't get the first part yet. I hear the Minister say that the moment you make a profit on the one hand, you can give it away for construction. But for a whole range of areas, in particular the most vulnerable areas, we will only continue to lose in the next ten years. So you don't have any space for construction in that region. The question remains: how can legal certainty be secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u51	This law is precisely designed to prevent the deterioration from continuing. The deterioration has to stop. The deterioration will be stopped on the one hand if we take all our source measures. We have taken these source measures on purpose at national level, because we want to have the effect at national level. That is enough for some areas. There are areas that are not very overloaded and that are already getting much better. You also have areas where that's different. In such an area you have to make an extra effort. But we also have the whole package of nature restoration and improvement. We should not forget that either, because in the end it is about: is the quality of nature deteriorating? The set of all these measures together should prevent this. It will therefore have to be determined by the competent authority whether an activity there is still permissible at that time. This means that in some areas of the Netherlands it will be easier to carry out other activities than in other areas of the Netherlands, where the conservation status of nature reserves is worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u52	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u53	I will return to it in my second term because I am not convinced yet. For the Biesbosch and the Wadden Islands, yes, because I don't think they are the problem. But there are a number of areas where it is a problem and where, in my opinion, the Minister's plans do not stop, but the deterioration continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u54	I thought rather "I'm waiting until the end of the block," but now I thought: it's also about this. Now, if I'm gonna follow the Minister's route, we're gonna reduce the nitrogen blanket first. Then we're going to do a specific recovery package in the areas, in the provincial nature plans. And if necessary, we are going to take additional measures to ensure that a licence application can still be made in those areas and that the prohibition on deterioration is maintained. My question is: what possibilities does the Minister have when a province refuses to act to comply with the prohibition on deterioration in a specific nature reserve? Because sometimes that is already in what is now; there does not necessarily need to be something extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u55	Each competent authority is competent to issue permits, whoever it is. I am sometimes competent, my colleague from IenW is sometimes and very often the municipalities and provinces are competent. They will always have to check whether the conditions for authorisation are met, whether they like it or not. They can just spend it, but then you know pretty soon that you're gonna have a problem with the judge, so most of them will handle it prudently. So the moment a province says, "I don't do much nitrogen reduction and natural recovery in my province," she knows that she's dipping their inhabitants at the same time. They will be given less room for economic activity. That's not a question of wanting or not wanting. That's a matter of, what are you gonna do? If you don't, you know at the same time that you just won't be able to realize other things. Then there's the question of how I'm going to respond to that. I come to a whole block of provinces, so these questions are also included, but in general, most of the source measures are taken by the Empire, by us. So it's not like the provinces are our executive agency or anything like that. A lot of things are already with us. The things in which the provinces play a more important role are, for example, the buy-back programme, because provinces simply have a view of where those farms are located, and the shore flow; that's one we're really looking at at at provincial level. On those parts, I make arrangements with the provinces. Then I say, this is the budget I have. The House of Representatives has even decided that provinces that are doing very well should actually get money earlier, so that is what we are already shaping. We are therefore doing these things in good agreement and the money is being spent on them. Of course there is also a lot of money on nature and that really is a decentralised competence of the provinces. For this purpose, I have established a programme with the provinces in which they have indicated exactly what they are going to do. Normally I always have to deposit the money into the Province Fund and then I have to hope that the provinces spend it well the way I did it. This is where we turned it around. We have said: we make it a specific benefit, a so-called SPUK. I give the money when the provinces have also submitted the plans. If they do not make sufficient progress in this respect, then I still have a means of sending that money. Of course, we're just doing that in good consultation. That has always been the case so far. But I can really give a little more direction when I see it's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u56	How does the Minister intend to deal with a province which itself has no interest in additional measures because it does not have a lot of licensing developments? How does the Minister intend to deal with a province that doesn't want to take such an extra step? If we say to each other at the very end that it is not good enough in a particular area and that despite everything we have done, there is a deterioration, then a province is responsible for achieving that reduction ban by means of measures. But it is the responsibility of the Empire at European treaty level to combat this deterioration in that area. So my question is: how is the Empire going to force that province in that situation? Or aren't we gonna force it? So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u57	Firstly: I myself have a great influence on the blanket, because it lies with me. That's gonna help that county. If that province doesn't want anything at all, then unfortunately she gets an improvement because of me. That's not "unfortunately," but in a manner of speaking. For nature I've just explained that I'm sending through the money. If they don't develop activities, they won't get any money for it, but I'll say it has to be done, so you're going to have to do this now. Again, it's quite hypothetical, because so far I've been really good with the provinces in consultation. The point is that other provinces can suffer if one province does not do well. You often see nitrogen emissions on several Natura 2000 sites. If something happens in Overijssel, so to speak, it affects Gelderland. Then Gelderland would go to Overijssel and say, "Hey, hello. It may also be the other way around, so that Overijssel says: you do so little; I have a lot of problems with my licensing every time because you do not do enough. That's something where provinces keep each other on each other's backs, because it's bothering everyone. The most extreme kick I have is giving a clue. That drug exists. I'm not gonna say I'm gonna put that on, because I just want us to get out of here normally. I think we've built in a lot of stairs before that to build up the pressure. If it's really necessary, we could still use it. But again, I expect and hope I never have to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mrs. Kluit, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u59	Finally. It would be nice if the Minister would define at what point in time such a clue comes into view. I just had an interrupting debate with Mrs. Klip. That was about the question of when we really think it is bad enough and not accepting that it is deteriorating in the nature reserves. We've already lost a lot. What is now, we want to improve, but we must avoid losing the diamonds and the beautiful pearls we have because they are too vulnerable in improving the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u60	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Just a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u61	That is not only for nature, which I myself very much love, but also because this is precisely the legal aspect on which the Empire is approachable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u62	The Minister. Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u63	That's why we monitor continuously and that's why we constantly adjust. That gives you a guarantee. There are obligations to achieve results in the law. These apply not only to me; they apply to everyone and therefore also to the provinces. They will also have to contribute to this. If we see that certain provinces are really doing nothing at all, again, that is not the situation now, so I want to keep it very hypothetical, then we are going to follow some sort of escalation ladder and we say: we have to do something about this. It is important not only because of economic activity, but also because we need to improve the conservation status with each other and because we need to comply with international obligations. You do that first in an administrative consultation with each other. Then you've got different stairs that you can walk through. But to start saying in advance, yes, and then I'm going to give you a clue... I think so... I mean, then you're already so far in the escalation that a lot has already failed before that. I think I have a lot of resources left to do that. There was another discussion brought about by the SGP, which several members responded to. We've established environmental values in the law. It is true that we have completed it until 2030 with a programme, and not yet from 2030 to 2035. This is because we wanted the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, to validate our measures. The PBL says that we can actually make a real assessment for not much further than 2030 at the moment. It is then a question of whether a measure actually results in that effect. There is already a standard for 2035 in the law, an environmental value. That is an obligation to achieve results. So that's just a standard we're going to have to work towards. By the way, this also offers certainty for parties. Parties can thus know what is expected of them, even after that. But it also gives us an obligation to look again as soon as possible when we can adopt such a programme with good decency. I understand that people say: that step between 2030 and 2035 seems so big, but let me remind you of a number of things. We also have an arrangement for the stables, for the stable adjustments. It's really gonna run around 2024, but the effects of that can of course last a lot longer. We only booked them until 2030 because we couldn't look that much further. At that time, the PBL could not properly estimate that. Only, of course, those effects will go through afterwards. So you will see more and more effect of that. We have issues such as the Climate Agreement, which will also have effects that will continue after 2030. They will thus in themselves generate effects. The nature programme also has effects that will go through after 2030. It doesn't suddenly stop at 2030. All these things together make it possible to set a number of goals for 2035 to achieve them. I heard Mr Schalk say: do we have time to see whether we are on track and whether we can live up to expectations towards 2035? Shouldn't we be looking at that a little faster? I think that's a good suggestion. I think that is also a suggestion where we should just see what is possible. I do not want to rob parties at the very last moment. The environmental value that's just in the law is in the law. I have to relate to that. That's just the value that's there. I can hear Mr Schalk say very well: take a good look at what is needed to achieve this, including the socio-economic, technical and financial aspects. I get that. I think that is a good suggestion from Mr Schalk, so that we can look at what is needed to set these targets back to 2035. I agree with him that we should not wait too long. After all, the sooner you get that clear, the better people can focus on that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u64	Maybe we can talk about the effects the Minister was talking about. You mentioned a few different elements: those stables, nature, the climate. That's all gonna have effects that can work. However, the step still seems quite a step, from 2030 to 2035, especially if you convert it into moles that are needed. That is what I mentioned in my speech. Let me ask you a specific question about the stables. That stable improvement starts in 2024 and there is a certain amount for that. Is that really enough for those 70,000 stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u65	Some of the stables already have new techniques. For example, there are already stables with systems that separate urine and solid manure from each other. That is not yet very widespread, as I say in the case of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So the question is whether you need to renew all the stables. At the same time, there is also phasing-in. We don't have to do all those stables in one year. That's a trajectory that you're going to go further and further with each other. You also want to take advantage of the moments of investment that a farmer sees himself, but in North Brabant the discussion about the standards of the stables has been going on for a while and the year in which people ask for adjustments where they have not been done. There will therefore be a difference in speed of work between the different provinces. Is that total enough? We have now said: until 2030, this is what it can bring. We've had that validated, calculated by the PBL. But it may be that you say that more is needed if you are going to come a little further in time, even if you want to meet the goals again afterwards. I can't anticipate that right now. I can now put down a 2030 package that has been passed on. I can imagine that that would be another consideration for a cabinet at that time, which would have to consider whether it would be enough to allow it to continue in the period after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u66	Is that part of the monitoring and the mid-term evaluations, so that when you notice that you are not going to make it here, you can also look financially at whether more is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u67	I can imagine that. You have several buttons, I'll just call it Mr Janssen's buttons as a cabinet. Of course, you always have different options. You can do that by setting rules, but also by giving subsidies. You can do it by getting it back into market concepts as well. I think that is an important notion, which Mr Schalk himself mentioned. Those are all aspects that are important to think about. They are also aspects that will be addressed in the design of an agricultural agreement. Mr Schalk's colleague in the House of Representatives, Mr Bishop, has tabled a motion asking whether we can reach an agricultural agreement, in which Mrs Knip has already asked for it to be very central, to ensure that farmers can also take those steps, that they can earn them back, in part from the market and sometimes in part from subsidies from us. These are all points that we will have to take into account. Then the conclusion of the cabinet may be at some point that there may be a need for money again. I can now report it until 2030, with the amount I have reserved for it. Actually, Mrs. Prins asked for the same thing. So I hope that I have also answered her question, including with regard to the targets up to 2035, on how to achieve those efforts and whether that is not too ambitious. She also specifically asked whether the impact of climate change could be taken into account. This can also be taken into account. That's already in the law anyway. Climate change is a factor that can be taken into account in maintaining the goals. If additional measures are needed, we must always do so, and we must also make the socio-economic assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u68	I can very well imagine that it is very difficult for the PBL to continue to charge for after 2030. At the same time, it is important to start planning in good time, even in the various scenarios, for what you could do. However, we would be very grateful if there were clarity and a number of plans to be launched early and quickly in the coming period, to see what you could do after 2030 to 2035, taking into account a number of credit transfers, such as other barn systems and a number of other things. We would find it very valuable if there were more and more of this and therefore we are not too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u69	I share that with Mrs. Prince. There is an official working group working to come up with all the options, as we sometimes have official working groups that can propose cuts or whatever. It is not politically driven, but it can put all the options on the table so that choices can be made. That group's already on the move. It is already considering what measures you could come up with in this regard. Then, of course, you will also make political choices. I can imagine that any subsequent cabinet or cabinet could certainly use it to think about after 2030, because I agree with Mrs Prins that we should not do this until 2028. Then it will be very late for a lot of parties. But then we also need to understand what the effects are. That's where the bump is for me right now. I can't calculate it between 2030 and 2035. As soon as we have more insight into this, as soon as we have those options on the table, you should also be able to paint the picture as soon as possible after 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u70	The PBL has indicated that they could do so in terms of time schedule. I can also imagine that, as they calculate many things, they say: it could be a sausage case, best case and a realistic case. Then you have handles to work from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u71	I don't know by heart. I should see if that's how PBL works. PBL will tell us: you won't be there by 2030. We know that, because we also know that the task is greater than 2030. But if they can also specifically calculate that this measure will give this effect towards 2035, I should really ask. I will see if I can give a more complete answer in the second term. Then there is Mrs Huizinga's pressing question: why 74% and not 75%? That has to do with the difference between emission and deposition. We are looking at the deposition on a Natura 2000 site, with the objective of the hectares covered by the critical deposition value. If you look at emissions, 50% emission reduction equals 74% of hectares below the critical deposition value. So here's an emission deposition calculation made. But: good question; I think many people are wondering. Mrs Kluit specifically asked about the standard for nitrogen binding on plots and whether I would like to include them in the Environment Act. We now have legislation at national level, in which, for example, nitrogen binding on parcels is part of the manure legislation. There you will also look at what the nitrogen binding is there and how you could take action on it, for example on how to limit leaching and so on. The checkable dust balance at company level may in the long term give a target to a company. There's that wish, I'm sure, but we're just not there yet. So that's actually something that's developing. We are looking at how we can shape that, because of course you must be able to guarantee that. We are exploring that now, including how we could possibly set it up. If you work that further, you can also of course see what standards you would like to hang on to. To put a standard in the Environmental Law at plot level; that can't actually be calculated at all. That would also be very complicated for those farmers, because they think: how do I prove or how do I show what I'm doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u72	I do belong to the Minister's position as a positive starting point to work it out and see if it can be developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u73	The checkable balance of substances was, of course, also included in the report of the Remkes Committee. He said, "Try to see what goes in there, what goes out there, and you're gonna tax the loss, or, well, you can do anything with it." What it means then, how you define that in the norming, I really find a discussion you have to have when you have that in order. I think it is too early to draw any conclusions on this before we can establish that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u74	What time-limit does the Minister think is necessary for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u75	We are now exploring how you could shape such a checkable fabric balance. I expect to be able to say more about this after the summer. That doesn't mean it's actually running. So again, we really need to know if it's working or if it's running. Some still refer to the MINAS. I know there are members in your Chamber who know a lot about that. That system has been run, only that has been rejected by the European judge in Europe. So we don't want to have another situation like this. So I am energetic but also prudent in this, so that I do not get another system that will not last in the end. If we have that, and if we know what it looks like and what it means, then I think we should have that discussion. But now it's really too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u76	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u77	In itself, I can live with that. I would appreciate it if the Minister would always take the step of the mineral balance on the company itself versus the spatial instruments that you could take behind it. Because that was the original question: can you, as a municipality, province or waterboard, make demands on nitrogen binding through, for example, planting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u78	But that really is a national competence at the moment. We have national manure legislation. We also have national legislation on... In the Nitrates Action Programme, we set out what measures we are taking at national level to ensure, for example, that nitrogen is bound. If each municipality or province is going to stick its own rules to that again, it will be very difficult for the farmer. I'd like to warn you about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u79	Those were your three questions, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u80	Can I have one more thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u81	All right, let's finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u82	That's right, but that's also what we chose with the Environment Act: that the municipalities can do that. But it could also be a solution to take additional steps around those vulnerable natural areas, which could lead to more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u83	I agree with Mrs Kluit that we should also look at how, for example, eco-regulations are going to be implemented, but then I really find myself in the CAP, the common agricultural policy, where eco-regulations are going to be able to use them in order to take the right steps within the framework of nitrogen. This can indeed be done by growing certain crops that bind nitrogen. You can also come up with other options for that. But if municipalities and provinces take an extra step on this, it makes it rather complex for a farmer, I think, to know what the rules are. You will then have national regulations and then he will have to comply with them provincially or locally. So that requires a discussion in itself, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u84	Do I understand the Minister correctly? She says she'll be returning to the checkable dust balance in the autumn, but it's her intention to introduce it. She was right to point out the possibility of fraud. That is why the system was rejected by Europe. But is it her firm intention to introduce this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u85	I do believe that we need to move towards a situation where we can pay much more at company level, because then you can also show who is doing well and less well. Then you can reward those who do well more and encourage those who do less well to take another step. That's complicated now, because we have generic policies. So that's what I'm trying to do. I want to be able to do that very well so that we don't get wet again at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u86	Are there international experiences that we can share and that Europe can be interested in? Because I can imagine everyone struggling with the same thing. And yet... Mrs Kluit asked for it and we won't hold you to it, but when do you think, if it's a bit lucky, that such a system can work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u87	I would very much like to say that we turned it around as quickly as possible, so to speak, but I think that is really risky. I'll tell you where we are after the summer. May I suggest that I take the question straight away: if you would do this, when could it possibly happen and do we still have good examples in Europe? I know that the problem is broader in Europe, not so much on nitrogen but a little more on nitrate and that sort of thing. Then I would like to see if there are other systems in similar situations that may also offer solace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u88	Mr. Arrowman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u90	Mrs Huizinga asks what kind of measures we should think if a result commitment fails. There's a lot of ways to do that. You can adapt the instruments, the nature of the measures, for example from voluntary to more binding. There's a continuum on it. That should therefore be through legislation and regulation. You can increase and shift grant budgets. That is more the stimulating side, which I was just talking about with Mr Schalk. You can also bring them forward in time, for example. Of course, we have also made a time schedule when certain budgets are released. You might want to bring it up again. You can also take extra measures. I do not have a whole list of these extra things that I could use, but you could think about that even further. Additional measures can also be taken in the areas themselves. Also asked what to do if you have a construction site for example and you don't have enough nitrogen space left. I see that certain municipalities are now, for example, moving a garage company or removing a waste processing plant. The latter was done in The Hague, which gave people more space in that place. So sometimes you really have to do customization in order to do that right. In all cases it is important that you look at what is effective at that time. Sometimes it'll be the root and sometimes you'll need the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u91	Could such a measure include, for example, the removal of a tiny Natura 2000 site?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u92	These Natura 2000 sites, of course, have previously designated the Netherlands. It is not the case that the Netherlands will then simply have the power to delete that in your words 'little area'. We didn't point that out for nothing. There are habitats and species that are protected. The Netherlands can't just say: we don't do that there anymore. On the part of nature I come to the question whether you can't do it smarter on some parts. That doesn't mean you get less nature, but sometimes you might be able to shape it smarter. But it's not like we're just gonna scrap some territory right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u93	I understand, therefore, that the Minister does not want to simply delete a territory, but perhaps she intends to raise the issue of the possible removal of such a area from the European Commission. I'd like to get a reaction to that. But what is, of course, true is the following. There are areas where an x number of species were first reported. I have already mentioned the example of the dry heath today. There we first had five types of vascular plants and now there are twelve species. That, of course, makes things more difficult. Apparently, you can easily attach species, but can't we also extract species?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u94	This example of the heath is not known to me. I do not know where that would have happened. However, if Mrs Faber has all kinds of examples of this, I am very interested in what is happening. These areas often do not see in one species. There are several species protected. There's more habitats there. Not to mention the Birds Directive, because there are also some things around it. So it's not like you're saying: we don't feel like it anymore; we delete the nature reserve. We simply have an obligation to protect that nature and to ensure that it recovers, because in many cases it is not in a good state of conservation. But sometimes something else can help here, and that might be surprising. Because such an area is sometimes very small, it is so twistedly difficult to get that recovery right, so that there can be more and more difficult activities in that area. This can often be made more robust again, for example by connecting to another nature reserve, or perhaps by creating a more buffer zone where you have a bit more machining, which suddenly makes things much better with such an area. We'll make that kind of proposal. It's part of the Nature Program. This may make it easier to meet the challenges in such an environment for economic activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u95	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u96	That last answer makes me a little anxious. So a stamp is first put in place. This does not seem to go well, but we can improve it by making it even bigger. I'm a little hesitant about that. I do get the feeling that those stamps have that function. I'd like to come back to those heathens. I have it here that habitat type is H4030. It just exists. In 2008 there were five species of vascular plants. That's just a fact. In 2019 the same habitat type was extended to twelve species of vascular plants. It took a lot of effort to get this list from the WUR. That is, of course, very striking. The University of Wageningen provided that, but that was because the investigative journalists knew exactly what that list was called. Otherwise, they wouldn't have gotten it. So I can also imagine that you may not know, but it is the facts. This is just what happens. That habitat type is extensive. This isn't how you're gonna win the game. You're not gonna win the game if you weigh it up at the back, while you want to lighten it up on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u97	I'm just looking, because I have to interpret what you're saying, and I'm trying to do it right. This is about the question: if nature improves, do you have to maintain that improved nature? Yes, of course. Nature is not in sufficient condition, because we are losing a lot of species, lots of habitats. That's why we're doing these cases. Mrs Faber mentioned data that is not public. I have also been really practicing what she means. On the website you can see by Natura 2000 sites what the habitats are, what the species are, what the state of conservation is like and what the relative state of conservation is compared to other areas. Everything I report to Europe is public. So I simply do not know what Mrs Faber is saying: I have no information; you are withholding it. That was the suggestion in her contribution. I really don't have a clue, because everything is public. I can email you the websites. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u98	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u99	I think we're gonna come back to the SDFs a lot later. Is that right? Yeah, I'll save this for later. I can have that whole discussion right now, but it'll come back later. We'll do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u100	All right. Mrs Huizinga also asks about the legal sustainability of the partial threshold, in the popular sense 'the building threshold'. Can I explain again why it is legally sustainable? The proposed partial exemption is legally sustainable on the basis of the effects of the structural package. They make improvements everywhere, all over the country. This has to do with the fact that we are talking here about construction taking place across the country. So that's not in one place all the time, so you have the pressure on one Natura 2000 site all the time, but you build all over the country. So that also varies by location, but if you add it up nationally, it should have the same emission. And then there is the very small contribution of construction to total nitrogen emissions. The construction is not the largest emitter on nitrogen. In addition to the April package, the Cabinet reserved 100 million a year, partly for the possibility of taking measures within or outside the construction sector in order to ensure the structural approach, including the correction, to which reference has already been made. The construction sector therefore also contributes to reducing nitrogen emissions. We checked this with the Council of State, of course. The reaction of the Council of State is known to you: it has said that in this way, with this justification, you could also make such a partial exemption legally sustainable. Mr Pijlman asked whether we could also fulfil the responsibility without compromising the objectives set. I was just talking to him about it in an interrupting debate that the Empire is indeed responsible and is also ultimately responsible for the objectives of the bill, but that the Empire and the provinces are also working together to do so. In the implementation of the nitrogen reduction and improvement programme, we work together with the administrative bodies responsible for the measures to be taken. These are not just the provinces, by the way. My administrative consultations are a kind of Polish country days, because there are also the water boards, the municipalities, the colleagues from the other departments and, of course, the provinces, because we all have a responsibility in this matter. Moreover, the implementing obligation applies to the administrative body concerned if it has agreed to include the measure in the programme. So we are connected and bound to the program. Mr Pijlman also had a question about the delay of the Environment Act: is this putting the objectives of this law at risk? The implementation of the present objectives will not be delayed if the Environmental Act does not enter into force at the beginning of next year, but then the First Chamber will have to agree to the pending AMvB. This bill not only amends the Environmental Law, but also the Law on Nature Protection currently in force. And the AMvB not only amends the four AMvBs under the Environment Act, but also the already applicable AMvB under the Nature Protection Act, namely the Nature Protection Decision. If the First Chamber does not agree with the AMvB, that amendment to the Nature Protection Decision may also not enter into force. If she does agree to the entry into force of the Environment Act, it should not prevent her from agreeing with the AMvB. Both the bill and the AMvB have the possibility to differentiate the entry into force. In this way it will also be arranged that the amendment of the Environment Act and the amendment of the four AMvBs under that law will not enter into force until the Environment Act enters into force. But for that everything is therefore under the Nature Protection Act, which now applies. How do I intend to achieve the objectives and how large is the buy-in and buy-out programme to achieve the objectives without the economy jumping back into lockdown? And how do I estimate that if internal and external netting leads to a very slow reduction in emissions? Those were questions from Mr Pijlman. In order to achieve that 50% target for the KDW, which is 2030... it is necessary to reduce the deposition by 110 mol; 20 mol of these will go to the development reserve. In total you have 130 moles to achieve deposition reduction. As mentioned above, it appears from the PBL that this package of measures could collect this. If that's not enough, then we'll have to step up. Mr Pijman also asks whether I can promise that economic activities aimed at the energy transition and greening of industry, i.e. everything related to the Climate Agreement, will not be delayed by the nitrogen problems. For this, the partial exemption contained in the law, i.e. the building threshold, is incredibly important. Because this will enable activities which have a deposition at the construction stage but which, in structural terms, produce the profits; let me put it this way. This gives many projects an opportunity, for example around windmills and the like. You might still have a piece left that won't work. You're gonna have a lot of options for that. One of course is the development reserve; it can eventually be used for that, but it will take a while before we have filled it. You should now look at what is needed to carry a project forward per situation. That's what we do in practice. I know that there is a project in the north of the country, in the Ems-Dollar area, where there is also an energy transition going on. That project still needs a tiny piece of nitrogen. We are working with the province to see how we can facilitate this. I will come to the point of the nitrogen registration system which is also important for this, because it allows you to use the pieces of nitrogen that are left over for this type of activity. But also matters such as the legalization of notifications are, of course, in the process of development reserve, which we have said is important. So we have to take those steps together there, too. Partial exemption helps. Where there's still a bit to be done, we really need to deliver customization. After that, you could also look at the development reserve, but then you should also take into account the reports that have to be partially legalized. In this connection, Mr Pijlman asks whether, until then, you cannot work with a threshold, for example, with the 0.5 mole per hectare. We have therefore also given this partial exemption. That could help you overcome this in part. Deposition made possible by a threshold shall not lead to a significant negative effect on protected habitats. We are examining the possibility of adjusting the current arithmetic limit value of 0.005 mol per hectare per year and how to deal with very small deposition contributions at a long distance from projects in the context of the authorisation process. The results of this study by the Hordijk Committee are expected for the summer. So we could look at that as well. Mr Van Rooijen asks what the parties who have borne government responsibility for 35 years have done. Where were they all this time? Why hasn't the necessary changes started before? It's good to look back at the past and learn lessons. I think Mr Van Rooijen does that quite often, because he always knows a lot from the past. Maybe it's best if he answers that question. I think he's been around for the longest time and I also know what happened at that time. I know what the lessons we've learned are. We really need to reduce that nitrogen before we can start new activities again, because the criticism of the PAS was, of course, that we lived on the puff. There should also be no doubt as to what measures are being taken for nature and for economic developments. Those effects must be fixed before they are booked. This structural approach and the legislative proposal have a fundamentally different character, so that the commitment to nature is secured compared to all those years before. This will provide clarity for parties, but at the same time it will ensure that all kinds of parties are called upon to make a firm effort to achieve this. I believe it was Mr Pijlman who said that we will not talk about nitrogen for the last time here today. I do not expect that either, and not only because there will be a new cabinet, but also because this is an issue that has so many aspects to it. It sees, for example, on the spatial layout. Mr Raven said it nicely. He talked about the issues surrounding region versus Randstad, and about how you divide things, where you're going to develop your activities and how you're going to look at housing and where you're going to realize them. Of course, all these aspects are included. It all has to do with the question of where to give space and where to offer it. So I think we are going to talk much more about spatial planning in the coming years than we have done in recent years. I wouldn't mind; let me put it this way. And how is that going to happen? I think that a next cabinet should relate to that too. Mr Pijlman also asked if I could confirm once again that these results were also committed in 2025 and 2030. I can confirm that. I also answered the questions about the ICT systems in the Environment Act, because they were in line with the questions about the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u101	A question hanging over the market, which was also asked to me by a few people, was mainly about this obligation to achieve results. I simply think that we should discuss them openly and transparently. I understand from the Minister that she stands for this law. 74% will be in 2035. Can she imagine that extreme circumstances arise that no one can do anything about, so that there is no unwillingness or anything like that, where you get into trouble anyway? Is a next cabinet able to play into that in some way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u102	Look, this is the law that I'm bringing to your Chamber and this is the law I stand for and in which the goals are simply clearly incorporated. Mr Schalk is actually asking about the what-as-scenarios. In general, each cabinet can, of course, make its own assessment if it has majorities in both chambers of the States General. That is ultimately the democratic principle that we have agreed on. I do know what I have to do, and that is to start with the goals that we have when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u103	Thank you. It's crystal clear what you stand for. That's obvious. There is one other aspect that has just been raised, namely the different areas. Does the Minister also foresee that there might be more area-oriented planning in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u104	We have laid down a more national package of source measures, but that does not mean that we can also meet all the needs and expectations that exist in the areas. And I believe that we need to make these areas more and more central. This is, of course, also the essence of the regional plans which the provinces must draw up. You have to look in an area to see what the wishes are about new activities. What are things that might stop in a particular area? What, for example, do we want with the housing statement? These are all issues that can be brought together much more at local level and, if you ask me, should also be raised. The provinces are going to draw up those land plans. There is a small part of us: how are we going to take the source measures and how are we going to take the nature measures? But it also says what is needed in such an area. I think that fits with the very nature of such an area. It is an illusion to think that from The Hague we can make everything very workable. Mrs Klip also mentioned the concept of making things happen to us, and I would like to keep it to myself, where you can also see that, fortunately, reality is also going its own way. At the same time, it is precisely in the regions that the integrated challenges can be taken into account much more. There are often already water statements and data about clean air and soil. It is precisely there that you can bring these things together much more, with the water boards and the municipalities, which have a much better view of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u105	Minister, may I ask you a question for the time schedule? We're still in the first block, I guess?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u106	Yes, but this was one of the biggest cubes, although agriculture is also quite a big block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u107	We're about halfway through the time we'd set aside for this term. We can also continue with it after dinner break; that can also be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u108	What time is the dinner break scheduled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u109	It's scheduled for 6:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u110	I'm going to do my best, but I'm also trying to answer the questions that have been asked. Mrs Klip asks about the hardness clause. When can you bet it? The hardness clause concerns the situation in which the nitrogen deposition caused by foreign sources prevents the achievement of conservation targets specific to Natura 2000 sites. The provision in the legislative proposal provides that if it appears that such a situation is at issue, I must enter into consultation with the Member States concerned on measures in those Member States to reduce the nitrogen deposition. If this is not possible, the provision also provides for the obligation to enter into consultation with the European Commission on the application of the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. It is not therefore a question of abandoning the Birds and Habitats Directives, because that space is not in those directives. It is about finding solutions that we may have to take elsewhere to ensure that if we cannot solve the problems ourselves, I or my successor in office will engage in these talks. Just so you know, I'm having these conversations. So they're already running. I have already had rather intensive contact with the Belgian colleague. They have now also been confronted with a court ruling that their nitrogen emissions should also be reduced and that the conservation status of Natura 2000 sites should also be raised. So they are also in good official consultation with us to see what we are doing and how they can learn from it. I have also had contact with the German colleagues on this matter. There the problem is less urgent at the moment, but they also understand that there is an issue. With the Belgian colleague I am already a bit further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u111	I understand your answer, but I linked it to another question on which I got a little further into my story. Maybe that comes up in another folder, but my point was that it works the other way around. We also emit a lot of nitrogen abroad. So the conversation can also be conducted the other way with us. Should we not add the obligation we have for everything that we emit abroad to the objective we have set ourselves for those three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u112	That's a good question. This subject is in another block, but there is indeed reciprocity in it. It is not that it leads to an additional task for us. It is true that we must show that the deposition is going down with us. This also has to do with fewer emissions. Less emissions are also less across borders. This reciprocity is certainly there, and that is also the conversation I have with the Belgian colleague. Very specific: Zeeland is currently importing nitrogen, especially from the port of Antwerp. They are therefore net recipients. Brabant exports more to Belgium. So it varies by province and by region. But it's true that we have to look at how we do it together. Moreover, it is not the case that the hardness clause is now working in the opposite direction. The Belgians do not yet have the legislation we have here. I can imagine that at the moment it comes from abroad, she also says that they are entering into the conversation to see how we can help each other. We understand very well that we are facing the same task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u113	Perhaps for a moment, though it may be very precise and arithmetical: we must therefore also reduce emissions in order to avoid the regions of our neighbouring countries. Through that complicated system that we have often talked about, we have calculated what we need to ensure that we achieve the environmental value that we now legally define. So, if I understand correctly, the task we have for everything that goes to Belgium or Germany comes up. After all, the reduction in emissions cannot be attributed to the KDW objective of our own nature reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u114	No, that suggests that the nitrogen really only hangs on that one Natura 2000 site. Nitrogen is about a lot of miles. So the moment you reduce or remove the emission source, it will also have an effect abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u115	Then it'll have multiple effects. I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u116	Mrs Klip asked about the system of a change of course or possible additional regulation if necessary. How do I see that? We have a monitoring and adjustment system. Every year we report on the nitrogen deposition on the Natura 2000 sites, so you can also see the trend of what is happening there. Biennially, we report on the progress of the measures we include in the programme. It is already an obligation that we report every six years on the state of conservation of nitrogen-sensitive habitats in the Natura 2000 sites. So we have three reports. On the basis of these reports, we can quickly see whether adjustment is needed: either that there is too much deposition of nitrogen, or that the measures are lagging behind or that the conservation status is falling again. We have now, of course, also enshrined the intermediate objectives in the law. We know that those are the benchmarks we want to get for nitrogen anyway. This combination of annual, biennial and six-yearly reporting with the targets and the result obligation we already have in the law must ensure that we stay on course. It must ensure that we do not deviate too much, which means that at the end of the day we have to take a huge U-turn to get things done again. Of course, I will report to your Chamber on these reports, so that you can take note of them yourself. Then I'm sure you'll urge me if I don't do enough. We were just talking about exporting and importing. So we're already working on that. That does not only end at the border; it also goes beyond the border. Mr Pijlman specifically asked about the development area of the 20 moles. Can you actually make it through all that, including the 50% target? We've taken that into account. That's why we kept a buffer. We'll send for that, too. It is not the case that we are simply steering towards the reduction of the objective, but also towards making that development reserve possible. That's what it's all about. Then Mr Pijlman asks whether I can guarantee that all housing plans in the coastal provinces can continue. The word "guarding" is always a bit of a complicated word, because as a minister you always want to guarantee everything you imagine. I sometimes have some examples in which that is a bit more difficult. I read Mr Pijlman's question in this way: can it go on there or not? That is precisely why we introduced the partial exemption from the construction sector, because otherwise there would have been very little more possible. It has now been calculated nationwide that the number of newly built houses affected by the nitrogen restrictions is half as a result of the building exemption. Thus, in the Hague region, for example, two to three times as many houses can be built as a result of this building exemption. So that's how important this law is to construction, I just want to remind you. The use phase is not covered by the exemption. So the construction does, but they don't live there. That's why you'll still have to look for nitrogen space in a number of locations in the coastal provinces of the island. In part, this is possible with the nitrogen registration system. If you need a little pick, you can get it out of there to make it possible. We also have the instrument of internal and external netting and the ADC test. So we will be able to offer solace in several places. In The Hague countries and Zaanstad, for example, areas-oriented with interested parties, including us, will also be searched for opportunities to really deliver the customization you need to get that last piece done. Mr Pijlman asks how we are getting on with the planning plans and the development of the plans. The nitrogen registration system is already in place. This is now being used. There was also a question about the zoning plans. That's what the Futselaar motion was adopted on. It asked to be able to use this space already for the zoning plans. Therefore, if a zoning plan allows for certain construction activities, construction or modification of works, this part of the plan will be subject to the partial exemption for the construction phase of the project. So that way we can also loosen up some of the zoning plans, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u117	I have a question about the construction. The Minister states that in the construction phase there is an exemption for nitrogen, but not in the use phase. Couldn't the next situation arise? Let's say 1,000 homes are being built somewhere. After that, there's no more nitrogen space. People buy a house there and then can't use it anymore, because there's no more nitrogen room. There must also be parking spaces, cars and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u118	Yes, but that is already taken into account at the licensing stage. I always try to make it a little visual. I can't put it generally, but most of the time you don't always have a city where all the traffic and that sort of thing are, you know, enough about the construction phase. The tram is already there, the parking garage is already there: that doesn't change that much. If you are going to build in a meadow, that is different, because things need to be built that have a structural effect rather than an occasional effect. Cars go down that road, and that keeps going on. So you're gonna run into that in your permit if you say, "I don't have to take care of that." Then your competent authority will say, "You have to take care of that." So at that point, you can't just say, "I have that exemption." You're gonna have to find a piece of nitrogen somewhere. This can come from such a registration system in which the nitrogen yield is recorded, but in which you can also take some of it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u119	Can I conclude, then, that at the time that there is a permit for, for example, 1,000 homes, suppose that we are going to put them in a meadow, the buyers or residents of those homes do not run into the fact that they are later confronted with certain measures? That's known in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u120	Yeah, or you won't get a permit to start that project. The authorisation must be completed, so that cannot be written on the account of the buyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u121	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u122	For example, can't a rabbit come out of the top hat so that they suddenly no longer get parking spaces or something like that? Well, that's all for sure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u123	When submitting the permit application, account will have to be taken of how you compensate for that nitrogen, if there is one. There are projects that do indeed choose to create fewer parking spaces, in order to say: I need less nitrogen space. That's the project developer's choice. We're not gonna sit on that. But it's not like afterward your parking spaces are taken away or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u124	Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u125	I would like to join in on this, because here is the field of tension that I have tried to describe. In the city it is easier, in those kind of regions it is difficult. So they actually get different conditions and so you get that less can be built in the regions. How are you going to break that spiral?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u126	I think that is a valid point from Mr Raven. He says: there is also a need for development and housing in the regions, and we must ensure that we provide the space to do so. It is very specific, because in some regions a construction project has no effect on the Natura 2000 site. So it's also where you realize that housing area. I know of an example from Limburg. At first, a project signed up was really stuck against a Natura 2000 site. I couldn't do that anymore. When that project was realized a few miles away, it was possible. The distance to that Natura 2000 site was then large enough to ensure that it had no effect on it. There is therefore often room in the region to build in other places. When I look at the map with the housing projections that we could realize with the speed reduction, it shows that it was usually easier to realize them in the region than in the Randstad. That's because in the Randstad, the whole dune area is a Natura 2000 site. Cities in the Randstad, such as Zaanstad, Katwijk and The Hague were all actually stuck because of the dune area. That was easier in the region. So you can't say very generically that the city always has it easier than the countryside. However, I fully agree with Mr Raven that we need to ensure that there can also be construction in rural areas. The Minister of BZK is also working on the housing deals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u127	It needs guidance. I have spoken in particular about shrinking regions. They have a specific problem because there are more people leaving than that. So the support for such a municipality, for such a region, just becomes very difficult. It's been happening for years. What you see now is that in the Randstad there could be another 500,000 homes. I heard that in one of the contributions this morning. I think that balance needs guidance. Perhaps the Minister should make a commitment in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u128	I already deal with this law on a lot of issues: economics, construction, infra. That, of course, is what we are doing today. It is now for the Minister of BZK, but I note from all the party programmes that it will be a Minister of Housing. It will therefore have to be able to direct these processes more closely. It is a little complicated for me to anticipate choices that will have to be made in the formation. When I look through my eye hairs like that, I can see that there is beginning to be some support for a Minister of Housing who can actually pull this kind of thing more smoothly in certain places. I think it would be a good idea for a new cabinet to relate to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u129	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u130	I would argue for more of a helicopter view on those points. You can see the climate policy, the nitrogen policy. A number of things are coming together. I also mention corona and the problems we have to solve in this area. If you're gonna fly up there, you're gonna see all kinds of bandages that can be made. And I kind of miss that in the story before me today. It is highly likely that there will be, but you could send it over the next few months in order to achieve that overview in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u132	That comes down to the question: can you all take the tasks together? "Integrality" is a very nice word, but at the same time it can also work as a kind of "stopword." By this I mean that we stop processes for a long time because we want to look at everything very closely. I think housing is a task that we simply need to get to work quickly. At the same time, you don't want that to interfere with other cases. That is why I spoke with Mr Schalk about these regional plans. Then you know what the wishes and possibilities in an area are. You also know what the indiscretions are. You know what's still needed. That's where you can get those things together. So indeed also with climate, also with nitrogen, but also with housing, with nature development and also with economic activity. 'Cause that's what's happening there. So I see above all that in those area plans, you can take a lot of things together. If I have to do it all on a field level, I'll get back into the drawing table theory a little bit. I'd rather it really came from underneath. It's possible. We have also given the provinces time to deal with this properly. I think that a future cabinet should look at the very specific issue of construction and that there should be a little more perseverance there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u133	Thank you. We're still in block one, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u134	Yeah, but I'm also getting a lot of interruptions from other cubes, so I think I'm gonna be able to get through my cubes a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u135	Up to 6:30, you think, hopefully? Mr. Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u136	I would like to touch on the fact that the Minister says that we should also make building possible in the outside world. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u137	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u138	At least she said that building should be possible outside the city. Isn't it true that that's difficult, because the provinces are countering that? There are a lot of provinces that only expand and very little facilitate expansion. Well, that works against each other, doesn't it, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u139	If my words have gone wrong, I'm sorry, but I didn't say I wanted to make that possible. It was more of a theoretical story to Mrs Faber's question about how it works with nitrogen. The temptation is great to have a building debate here, but I'm not the Minister of Housing. I find it difficult to give all kinds of views and opinions about this when I am not the first to discuss it. I know, however, that the adoption of this bill is the first step to enable these houses to be built, as I see that Mr Dessing is very keen to build them. I'm not just saying that, but that's what Building The Netherlands says. So the appeal to Mr Dessing is: if you want to do so, please see how you can support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u140	May I suggest that, after Mrs Faber, we give the Minister the opportunity to perhaps finish two blocks and then see where we stand with the interruptions? Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u141	The Minister cites Building the Netherlands, but Building the Netherlands wants to build 1 million houses, part of which they want to build in green. So I think Mr. Dessing just made a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u142	But I'm not going to have a building debate here. This is a debate on this bill. I also say to Mrs Faber: if you want these houses, look carefully at this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u143	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u144	But the fact remains that it is a very coincidence that at the edges of the West Veluwe, for example, the peak loaders are precisely caused by the province and that this is seen as a landing area for housing. That is all very coincidental and if the chairman of Building Netherlands indicates that they want to build in the green... In total they want to build 1 million houses. I'm not saying they all come in green. Half of them will probably go to the Randstad, but half of those 1 million they want in green. I understand that the Minister does not want to have a building debate here, but what we are discussing here is, of course, the way forward for those 1 million homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u145	I don't quite know what point Mrs Faber wants to make, but I think that's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u146	Finally, Mrs Faber, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u147	I don't want to say it's you. Maybe I got the wrong expression, so I'm gonna start over. We have a nitrogen debate here, about nitrogen reduction. They also want to make housing easier. That's perfectly understandable. Building the Netherlands has said: we are going for 1 million homes that we want to build. Looks like half those homes end up in the green. I combine that with the creation by the provinces of peak chargers at the border, for example the West Veluwe......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is obvious that you combine these two things and think: hey, peak loaders are created by a province and meanwhile it is a landing area. We are engaged here in a nitrogen debate which is going to release nitrogen space and which, in fact, exempts the building industry from a permit during construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u148	But then I conclude that Mrs Faber does not want a building exemption and therefore does not want to build those houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u149	I'm not saying that. I didn't say that. Of course, I understand the need for housing, but then I come back to a whole different area. We shouldn't build for immigration, because that's where most houses are going right now. But I don't want to have that discussion right now, because we're talking about nitrogen. Of course, I understand that there have to be housing, but there are still factors, such as the peak loaders, the landing areas and Building Netherlands, from which you can conclude that they are presorting to build in the green.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u150	Finally, the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u151	I don't have a proposal here right now where I'm going to tell you where to build it. I do know that these homes are incredibly needed. They are necessary for our children and for all those people who are now in despair paying enormous prices for a home and who are hardly able to do so. I believe that we have a duty here with each other to ensure that we meet this social need, and this legislative proposal offers the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u152	Then I suggest we continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u153	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u154	And that at least we're trying to get the Minister to finish the second block, nature, because we've done an hour and a half over the first block and there's five more to go. Well, then we'll know about how that is extrapolated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u155	Yes. Mrs Klip asks when I can be clear about the results of the Study Group on Spatial Planning. It's running now. We will shortly complete several reports relevant to spatial choices. That's the report set up by the Harbers motion. We also have ibo spatial planning and various studies on nitrogen. I just mentioned one about the scenarios. We are already expected to be able to produce a large proportion of these reports at the beginning of April, so that the new cabinet can also use it for the choices that need to be made. I'm really pushing that there's pace, so it can be taken in time, because I think it's very important. The approach of the National Rural Area Programme will therefore be in line with that, so that is the vehicle in which it can land. Mrs Klip also asked: does it also take the NOVI? She said: that must be the means to shape some of these kinds of discussions. That is indeed the instrument that we have to ensure at local level that we are going to make up for the choices. It is not easy, I say, because these are really big tasks, and we also have to have rather fundamental discussions. But we do want to prepare everything so that this discussion can be properly conducted. Mr Otten asked for the integrated approach. He just left, but I'm gonna do it anyway. He said: we still have so many things, such as the climate, the Water Framework Directive, climate adaptation, peat meadows, soil decline, sustainable agriculture and the circular economy. Mr Otten mentioned them all and he is right: there are a lot of tasks we have to do at the same time. I mentioned the area-based approach, the area plans. There's a lot of these things that can come together. Then we get a good map of what's needed in such an area. Are the objectives of this approach not sometimes contradictory? Sometimes there are things you have to get along with each other. If you do it smart, you can really get some things together. Mrs Klip knows very well what is possible on water. This is not only good for the area, but at the same time it can be good for nature. That's what you need to look at very smartly with each other. I think sometimes you can achieve multiple goals. But it is the challenge to just look at that closely, so that you do not do things that work conflictingly with each other, which makes you think later: we should have done that smarter. Has cost-effectiveness and regulatory pressure been taken into account in the approach? We have looked at the feasibility and affordability. We have also looked at the socio-economic aspects at national level. So we have not only looked at the choice of the type of measures, but also at the pace in which we take the measures. In the further development of the measures at regional level, feasibility, affordability and socio-economic aspects are also relevant. This will be recorded when you take the AMvB. It provides for a description of the expected socio-economic impacts and the weighting of the feasibility and affordability of the measures to be taken for each Natura 2000 site. Therefore, cost-effectiveness and the effects of regulatory pressure are part of this approach. I had something for Mr Berkhout, but he is not here anymore. I wanted to congratulate him on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u156	We will pass it on to Mr Berkhout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u157	Okay. I also had some answers, but now I go on to the block of nature. Because I finished the first block. Mrs Klip said that we have three billion reservations. She asked: can they really only be used in Natura 2000 sites? That's not true. We can also spend these resources more widely. However, it should be used for over-burdened nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites. Then it may indeed be very useful to use some of the money, for example, for the transitional areas, the buffer zones. Then the so-called addition of the nitrogen-sensitive nature. Mrs Faber has asked some questions about this. I'm going to explain that in a targeted way, because a lot of questions have been asked about that. Natura 2000 sites have been identified. That's happened a long time ago. That nitrogen-sensitive nature needs to be protected. Only, that had to be incorporated into AERIUS, the model in which we work. It has not been fully incorporated into it until 2017. This was taken with you from 2017. What had not been mapped out before was done. This may make it seem as if for some people a lot more nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites were suddenly added, but that is not true. It was actually signed in if that hadn't happened yet. It was said that it all came with it. Once again, what should have been introduced had not been introduced before. Mrs Faber said that 45% of the nitrogen-sensitive nature is in excellent condition, so we are already there. She also asked me to make the SDF reports public so that the Chamber can know what we decide. The justification for the current implementation of the standard data forms.......................................................................................................................................................................... I also have the link for you, but it is quite long; I will make sure that it comes your way. The percentages mentioned by Mrs Faber say nothing about the nitrogen problem. There's a mix-up of percentages. They concern the relative importance of nature in that separate Natura 2000 site and not the conservation status. So it's about how important a particular area is in that Natura 2000 area to protect certain species or habitats. That's different from the question of how nitrogen-sensitive it is. That's really two different things. In this sense, therefore, we have not yet achieved good protection of nitrogen-sensitive nature everywhere. So that's kind of the question about me not reporting cases. If Mrs Faber has any more questions or wishes about reports she wants to see, then I want to look at everything I can send to her, but as far as I know, everything is public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u158	Mrs Faber, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u159	That's gonna be hard, because I'm getting a lot of answers from the minister right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u160	You can deal with this in the second term. That's what it's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u161	Yeah, but... Well, never mind. It's all gonna take time for us to discuss this. It's about the habitat maps in AERIUS. Over the past 15 years, we've gone from 90,000 hectares to 172,000 hectares. The Minister states that it was not all well declared. I think it's a big difference: from 90,000 to 172,000 hectares. So how hard are you making it yourself? That's point one. As I said before, several species are added to a habitat type. We discussed this earlier; I am not going to repeat all that. So things just keep coming up and it's getting harder and harder for us. Let's talk about the SDF. The Minister must report to the European Commission on the SDF. It is true that there are all kinds of underlying reports on how all this is calculated. So if you're gonna check it out, someone's been doing that and you've calculated it, you've come to the conclusion that things aren't that bad with nature at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u162	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u163	My question is this. The Minister states that she basically supports the reporting she makes through the SDF to the European Commission... Yeah, you can get that out of the report. However, I would like to see the basis of the Minister's report to the European Commission made public. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u164	I'm going to explain it again, because Mrs Faber is confusing two different things. We report on Natura 2000 at two levels: what does a Natura 2000 site do? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my The report by area takes place in those SDFs. It shows the importance of the area in relation to the rest of the Netherlands by habitat and species. So that's a relative number, compared to the rest. That doesn't mean anything about the conservation status of that area. This concerns the importance of that area in relation to other areas in the Netherlands. In addition, I have to report to Europe. That is the so-called Article 17 report. That is where I'm going to tell you what the favorable state of conservation is nationwide. So those aren't things you can put together. Those are just two different kinds of numbers saying two different things. So it's not like those SDFs provide the input and, if you add it all together, you come up with that article 17 report. The score per area is often seen as the measure of the quality of an area. Nationally, we must report on the state of conservation of the total areas together. So that's not what the SDF's used for. I don't know if there's any other way to explain it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u165	Mrs Faber, one short question. And then I suggest we really finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u166	I think the Minister and I at least agree that there are two kinds of reports that you can't match one-on-one. That's right, because there are several things attached to it. But I am now talking about the SDF report to the European Commission. Yeah, you're starting to react to it right away...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u167	Yes, but I am not reporting it to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u168	Oh, you're not reporting to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u169	I'm reporting an article 17 report. That's the state of conservation. The SDF is about the relative importance of an area for a particular species or habitat. I report in an article 17 report. It concerns the conservation status of all Natura 2000 sites as a whole. That's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u170	Then I suggest we finish this, Mrs Faber. I hear you saying that this is a point. Then I'll give you the floor again. That's your 35th question today. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a very relevant question, because this SDF report is already done once every six years and other European Member States must also report in the relevant SDF report. You are not going to tell me that the Netherlands has been granted an exemption? So again, I'd like to have the basis of how one gets to those SDF values. Will the Minister release that? And then I don't want any reference to websites. I just want to support that report when the Netherlands reports to the European Commission. Is the Minister prepared to release them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u172	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u173	That is what we call the Article 17 report, and you can have it. Indeed, we report once every six years to the European Commission on the state of conservation of Natura 2000 sites. Mrs Faber says those are the SDF reports, but it's not. That is an independent report and you can get it from all the last times we have. I can send them all to you. I'll do that with a link. You'll get it at the same time as I make a new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u174	Then I suggest that you may be able to return to that in your second term, Mrs Faber. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u175	Yeah, let's see. Then the critical deposition values. Mr Schalk asked a number of questions about this. He asked if I could undertake an independent investigation into the justification and functioning of the critical deposition values. Those critical deposition values shall be used as the best available knowledge on the additional amount of nitrogen nature may receive before there is a risk of significant deterioration. A group of experts on nature and nitrogen is already in the process of looking at nitrogen overload and its relationship with other relevant factors and also how recovery measures can be an answer, because you want to use these recovery measures as effectively as possible. The results of a scientific report on the relationship between the degree of nitrogen overload and the impact on nature quality will be taken into account. These experts will also respond to the ecological aspects of the opinion of the Hordijk Committee. So I would suggest that we just wait and see what the conclusions are, and that we check whether there is another reason to start an investigation afterwards. I should like to know what is coming out of this investigation first, so that we can draw any further conclusions. Mr Schalk also asked about the search areas. That is a question that has been asked by many parties, what about those search areas in the AERIUS model. I think it's relevant to get on with that. I have just told Mrs Faber that, until 2017, too little Natura 2000 area has actually been mapped, so it has been put into the systems, so that you can act on it properly with your authorisation. After that, some sort of precautionary principle was applied. Where it was not quite certain whether an area was nitrogen-sensitive, it is actually included as some sort of security in the AERIUS model. We are now clarifying this, because we do not want there to be an excessive buffer, no matter how logical it is from some sort of precautionary principle. You want this as accurately as possible. The question at different parties here is now: can you not very quickly allow that AERIUS system to coincide exactly with the maps on which those nitrogen-sensitive areas are indicated? That's what we're doing, and I'd rather have realized that today than tomorrow. I just need information from the provinces for that too, and I don't have all of them yet. I'd like to do this right in one go. Because if I do it all again, the risk of mistakes will increase again. Then you get all kinds of discussions, which increases the uncertainty. So I just want to do this right at once. There is a new release, as we call it, of AERIUS scheduled for October. Now I hear you say: it takes too long. I understand that, too. Because if you just want to apply for a permit, you actually want to know now what the situation is so that you can deal with it properly. That is why I would like to propose and commit to this. I've already checked whether the release of AERIUS can be done sooner, but then the risk of errors really gets bigger. I want to avoid that, because changing back and forth doesn't make anyone any better. I can imagine that if someone applies for a permit now and has to show it in AERIUS, but has doubts as to whether that card is up to date, he can indicate it to his competent authority and will ask: is that card now being adapted quickly because that is where we have the data on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At that point in time, we will be able to do the customization so that we can count on the right situation in that case, for that permit. Then I have not yet fully implemented it in the model, but in reality it is working with it in that way. This prevents me from making all kinds of adjustments very quickly and perhaps having to correct it again later, because it is not yet complete, and in practice it is working with the right framework. I hope you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u176	I have two questions. The first is about the Hordijk Committee. I understand that the Minister is prepared to put the Hordijk Committee into effect after having another investigation carried out and if it shows that it is necessary. Did I get that correctly? That was the first question. The second one is about the piece she has now indicated. Some areas have not yet been properly identified. If you want to apply for a permit, you can try to raise with the competent authority that it is wrong in the system. But then you have quite an extra task yourself, because then you, as a citizen, must have better information than the competent authority at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u177	First, the first question. I have said that a committee of experts is already in the process of looking at the relationship between nitrogen overload and nature, and other factors. I want to wait and see what we might need after that. I do not know if that will be the Hordijk Committee, because this is really about the field studies, so really about what I call the ecological knowledge. The Hordijk Committee consists more of experts in the field of models and calculations. Those are really two different expertises. Before we do anything, I'd like to review the report that's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u178	What is the deadline for this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u179	It's coming pretty soon, I think. I'm sure before the summer, but I'll come back to it in second term. Then there is the second point. I understand what Mr Schalk is saying: you must be very smart. I'll make sure we get more publicity on that. It's not about knowing for yourself whether the card needs to be adjusted, but you can simply ask the competent authority: is this a current map? If the competent authority says "no, it may be that it will soon be modified," you can ask to take that into account when applying for a permit. So the extra check you have to do yourself is ask the competent authority: is this a current card? The moment you go into AERIUS, it is often the people who have sense who help you and know what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u180	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u181	We have quite a lot of competent authorities. They can all answer in a different way. Don't you think you're gonna get justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u182	In any case, the provinces are the ones who have to adjust the maps. I will also consult with the provinces to ensure that they make it public to other competent authorities that that check should be carried out. I understand the question very well, but I really want to do the customization, without getting into trouble with the release of AERIUS, because I don't want to let that go wrong either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u183	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u184	That is a clear commitment, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u185	For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u186	The question was also asked by Mrs Prins and Mrs Klip. There were others who asked for this. Mr Dessing asks if we can also deal more flexibly with the critical deposition value. Can we determine that ourselves? The Habitats Directive requires that there should be no deterioration of protected nature. The critical deposition value is the best available knowledge we have about how much nitrogen such a nature reserve can handle. We are already in the picture, following the implementation of the Geurts/Harbers motion, which are possible alternatives and which advantages and disadvantages come with them. It is about the goal: the favourable state of conservation. In order to measure that properly, you need to use the best knowledge to do so. To date, the best knowledge we have is the critical deposition value. Let's see. Mr Dessing also asks: why are most areas considered nitrogen-sensitive? Is it true that low numbers can then be explained by a number of vulnerable habitat types instead of assuming the area? Indeed, almost three quarters of Natura 2000 sites are nitrogen-sensitive nature. That's a fact. I can't do much about that, because it's about sand and peat soils, which are just sensitive to too much nitrogen. A lot of the soil of the Netherlands is made up of sand and peat. On rich clay soil there is actually no deposition problem nor in the large lakes and salty waters. A low critical deposition value is therefore not related to the number of habitat types and not to the area, but to what kind of soil is involved. That is often decisive. Is it also true that areas where species are absent are counted, and is it not a pollution of a number of nitrogen-sensitive areas? If a species does not appear in a Natura 2000 site, the associated nitrogen-sensitive habitat shall not be included in AERIUS. If Mr Dessing refers to specific sites within a Natura 2000 site, it is more nuanced, because the habitat of a protected species is protected throughout the Natura 2000 site. So if you have a Natura 2000 site and there is a species in a part of it, it applies to the entire Natura 2000 site. It is being examined whether there may be parts of the area that are not permanently used by the species. If that is the case, then those parts are not considered nitrogen-sensitive in AERIUS. But you have to be sure that it really isn't. So there is a sort of exact situation being looked at. Let's see. We've all had these, too. Then I have a question from Mr Recourt. He said: soil quality is actually very important, why is it so little included in the plans and why is soil quality on agricultural land itself not a checkable goal? Soil quality is a concept made up of different parameters for physical, chemical and biological quality. This means that it depends on many factors, such as soil type and soil management. The soil quality is now unaccountable. Through the soil strategy, we are working on a voluntary basis on soil quality, so steps are already being taken. The objective of the Soil Strategy is to aim for sustainably managed agricultural soils by 2030. Such an agricultural soil also contributes to achieving the task of recording additional CO2 equivalents per year in mineral agricultural soils, as agreed in the Climate Agreement. So we are really in the process of maintaining and improving the soil quality of the agricultural land. This can indeed be done through organic matter, soil fertility, soil structure management and soil life and resilience, but also, for example, by using other fertilisers and less plant protection products, by using well-designed construction plans and other operations with agricultural machinery. I share Mr Recourt's view that everything actually comes together at the bottom. If you do a lot of good there at the same time, you can at the same time bring a lot of societal challenges forward, such as reducing CO but also nitrogen and so on. But to do so, we need to understand more about what it is all about. We're in the process of getting a look at that with the soil program. Mr Otten asked whether we had discussions with the EU on what he called the "rationalisation" of the Natura 2000 area. Yeah, we do. The report on the possibilities for reorganising areas was published last year. It concluded that enlargement and strengthening of areas are desirable, which does not mean that you can simply delete existing areas. We have also discussed this at various times with the European Commission. I spoke to the Commissioner about this recently, two weeks ago. Before that, I had already talked to him about it. At the official level we have also had several discussions, so that they can see the steps we are taking around nature and nitrogen. I will come to the planning in a moment, but as Mrs Klip has already pointed out, the European Commission also says: let us first see that this is improved, because at the moment the conservation status is not yet such that you can go much further. It is therefore also a question of timing, but it is not the case that we do not engage in these talks. The European Commission will also need good reasons on our part to show that we can do things better in other areas too. We need to be able to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u187	The experience is that you have to ring the bell very often in Brussels. Whoever bitches the most gets what they want. We are, of course, paying very much to the EU. This was already the case in the previous emergency legislative debate, but since then we have also been given the EU recovery plan, which is going to receive a great deal of money. So can the Minister not press for a little extra, possibly with air support from the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance or both, to ensure that there are some robust areas? We have to stop with the stamp approach, because it doesn't work in the end. This is also recognised by other groups. We need to go to a number of larger areas and not have a stamp on every corner of the street. What is the Minister going to do to encourage the EU to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u188	First, the EU says: you still have a number of tasks to accomplish. I understand that, otherwise we wouldn't have had this legal treatment here either, I guess. This also shows that it is serious and that you are working on it. So we can also take some steps to simply improve conservation. At the moment when they are really bottlenecks in the sphere of 'we have done a lot but we are not moving forward', you can enter into the conversation with the Commission, saying: okay, what is your proposal? But until then, we have a lot of steps to take ourselves. The Commission also says: well, start first; if you still have things that you really run into and where you come from, you can have the conversation with us. But at this stage, the ball is still with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u189	Okay. When will the rationalization of these areas, to which the Minister has referred in her letter to the States-General himself, begin? I haven't heard much concrete information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u190	I also had a whole debate with Mr Janssen on the Grevelingen during the discussion of the Supplementary Law on Nature. I won't repeat it again. Mr Rietkerk also has vivid memories of this, including the Wierdense Veld and the like. Those are cases that we are now laying down very concretely with Europe. It is therefore not the case that we do not discuss this with them. At the official level, these talks are really continuing and we are working on them. I have the feeling that Mr Otten himself has a much larger master plan for dealing with all these Natura 2000 sites. It is therefore not the case that we are just walking in and saying: we do not really want these areas anymore. We will also really have to identify bottlenecks in order to be able to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u191	I ask this because the structural cause of the problem is the multitude of stamp areas. I have also raised this in the first place, and the groups have also appointed it. From my point of view, we now have about 80 or 90. So let's go back to some robust areas. So connect those areas together, but don't all start creating new stamps or making a small postage stamp a little bigger, because then that structural problem won't be solved and we'll never get out of it, whatever approach you choose. Hence my emphasis on this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u192	There I hear Mr Otten say something that I agree with, namely: see if you can connect areas. I have just said this in an interrupting debate with Mrs Faber. An area can sometimes become stronger only by connecting it, making the task in the environment easy. Now an area is so vulnerable because certain types of habitat cannot go anywhere. If that is the case, then it might be easier in such an area to realize other things as well. That's exactly what we're looking at in the Nature Programme: making smarter connections, which means that you're going to get a step further with each other. Mr Otten also asked about the means of recovery. The cabinet has, of course, already put in a programme of money itself. The whole issue of the recovery fund and what we are going to do with it is, of course, also a broader cabinet question. That's not just about that point. The cabinet is generally looking at which cases are eligible for this. I can only imagine that this also comes out of the Minister of Finance once or that a new cabinet has its ideas about it again. But we have already earmarked EUR 5 billion for this programme, so we can get to work. That seems to me to be the most important thing. Mr Recourt also asked about abroad. I've just explained that. Then there was a question about the NOVI. I have just told Mrs Klip that we are also working on this. Let's see what I've got. I see Mr Van Berkhout, so maybe I can give him a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u193	Berkwood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u194	Berkhout, excuse me. I wanted to congratulate him on his maiden speech. I was pleased to hear that this is what Mr Berkhout said and I share that we are very much in favour of nature and that we also want it to be strengthened. I hope, therefore, that I will be able to enthuse Mr Berkhout for this bill and for the fact that it also invests 3 billion in nature restoration and improvement. That should appeal to him, I think. But nature is also improving by taking the source measures. I hope he will take that into account in his consideration of how he looks at this bill. At least I wish him a good time here. Mr. Chairman. Then I've worked through the block of nature. So we're moving pretty fast. I'll get to the next block. Are we still on, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u195	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u196	I thought you told us to stop after this block. I'm getting to the farm block. There is, of course, a great task there. We know the same thing about each other. How can we ensure that the people of agriculture can take the steps that we ask of them and they are needed, and how can we do so in such a way that farmers can experience it? That's a quest from all of us. Mrs Kluit asked: what are the issues that you should deal with in the short and long term? That question is also about that. There are a number of measures that have short-term and longer-term effects. I mentioned the programme for innovation. We have already started this scheme, but it will, of course, continue in the longer term. The same applies to the switch-over programme. I'm working hard to shape that. With this I want to support farmers who are going to make the switch to circular agriculture this year. These are two important elements in giving farmers a further perspective, and then in a way that suits their own business, because fortunately they are not all the same. We always think: the farmer. But the farmer doesn't exist. But these are examples of measures that can really be taken in the short and longer term. In addition, we are working on the Bishop motion, with what is commonly referred to as the agricultural agreement. In this context, we agree on a long-term economic and ecologically sustainable future for the agricultural sector. I have asked the ESC to facilitate this process, the advantage of the ESC is that it may also join during a cabinet formation. I want to make sure that the things that we do in the agricultural agreement also match things that are discussed at the formation table, so that we do not work side by side. It just has to come together. It is precisely by investing that in the ESC that we have the opportunity to have those discussions at the formation table and to bring the ideas that live on how to shape such an agreement directly into it. As a result of the question of how I want to facilitate that process, I can say that we have already started doing so. The ESC is already working. Mrs Huizinga asked if you could use the agricultural agreement to explore the checkable dust balance and so on. How can you include such elements in that? That is certainly something we are looking at in that context. We are, of course, also working on the question of how to shape this, but this too is something that fits in with such an agreement on agriculture, so that for those who do this well, you can link some things to it, for example with a earning model. She also said that Dutch farmers are very well able to put forward ideas themselves. We want this to be included in the agricultural agreement. Mr Recourt also asked for this. It's become the SER. We are working on it and we will also use the coming period to make sure that this can be done with a formation. That was always a question from Mr Moorlag, who also wanted this very much. There is therefore also provision for this. D66 also asked about the checkable dust balance. I'll keep the First Chamber informed of developments on that point. Mr Schalk asked about the NMV, the Dutch dairy farmers union. Did I remove it from the meeting? I didn't kick it out of the meeting. They themselves expressed no support or support for the path taken. I've said my door is always open. In that sense, it is not the case that I do not want to involve parties. It wasn't me. Mr Janssen asks how I will continue to ensure that the general interest continues to prevail over self-interest, so that there are opportunities for young farmers and that there is not only an increase in scale and that I share that view. As a minister, you must be for the common good. That's what I'm trying to do. There is also a different agricultural sector. It's not like I'm just putting on one mold for how everyone has to work. If I wanted to do that, I would have come to know the agricultural sector as a sector which is still looking for its own way. But diversity is also reflected in the measures we are taking, on the one hand innovation measures and, on the other hand, the switch-over programme, in which more extensive farmers will also be given room. We have already set up a young farmer's fund to really meet young people. In the new CAP, too, we will pay extra attention to young farmers, so that it really is a story of the future and not just a story of 'we can't do anything anymore'. As far as I am concerned, the central question for agriculture is how to ensure that the agricultural sector really has a good future with a good earning model, where people who want to do so also have the opportunity to work in it and where we know that we simply have to find a solution to a number of issues. I believe that these questions will also be dealt with in the agricultural agreement. I would add that I think this is not just a responsibility for the farmers themselves. This is going to affect the whole chain, from beginning to end, I'd like to say. That is why I think it is so good that this whole chain is being brought into the agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u197	Just for a minute. In the public interest versus self-interest, I had asked the provinces, for example in the action of the province of North Brabant, which went left and right in the country to buy rights to serve the self-interest. So that wasn't part of it, but maybe it will. Otherwise this will be in the second term and I will raise it myself. I wanted to avoid a misunderstanding, but I am glad to hear that the Minister is also aware of the importance of young farmers, for example because it is not just about scaling up. I have already pointed out the size of the family as more ideal and not just more production for less and less money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u198	I myself was at the presentation of the SP vision document. I received it at the time. So I know how the SP looks at this itself. There was also a question from Mr Recourt about the earning model. He says that you would also simply need a more guiding role of the government, because farmers sometimes produce below cost. How can we determine that fair price to ensure that these farmers can go through? I have also drawn up an entrepreneurship agenda myself. I have also indicated how I intend to work towards a sustainable earning capacity for the agricultural sector in the near future. This agenda is built on four pillars: promoting new entrepreneurship, rewarding public services, strengthening the market power of farmers and also promoting a more level playing field. In it you can also take issues like pricing. Of course, there are different political views about this. We now also have the various electoral programmes, which take various ideas into account. I would like to remind you of something, because we have just voted on it this afternoon, which you did at hammering. I'm referring to the bill on unfair commercial practices. It also contains all kinds of measures to strengthen the market power of farmers in that chain. You have assumed it seemingly quietly, but there are real elements in this, which make it easier for farmers to form a sort of group in price negotiations and the like, where there were first issues or where competition is technically feasible. That's how you get a fairer relationship in that chain. I have already answered a lot of questions about this in the interruptions, for example whether there is enough money for the stables. I have just mentioned that in an interruption. Mr Schalk also had a question as to whether there is room for the provinces to consider in regional processes whether there should be more budget for emission reduction measures instead of buying them up. He asks whether flexibility is possible there. The structural package for agriculture has a broad approach. This is about farmers who want to stop and farmers who want to stay. So you also need a palette of measures, such as buy-back, but also innovation or management measures. We have also noted that the second tranche of the national termination scheme in 2023 will consider how it can be used most cost-effectively for the reduction of nitrogen. The advantage of a buy-back scheme is that it gives a relatively rapid reduction to the debt-to-GDP ratio. We have included in the law that provinces may come forward with proposals if their plans are more effective than the existing package. We call that a kind of "difficulty." If they can demonstrate that they can regulate nitrogen reduction more quickly in another way, then they can also submit those plans. It is true, for example, that at the moment the buy-back scheme for the first tranche of the tranche that we have just closed is completely full. So there really is a need for sufficient resources for stopping farmers who want to end their business. Then the peak chargers. A number of questions have really been asked about this. 'Cause can we do that faster? Mrs. Prins asked for that and Mrs. Kluit asked for that too. Like I said, we have a buy-back arrangement right now. The first instalment of that has just been closed, or will be closed tomorrow, I think, but it's all full. Then we'll move on to another tranche. It is important that we also change a number of elements in the scheme. This is at the request of the House of Representatives, but also to increase the effectiveness of this measure in the direction of this peak tax. Because right now you can only buy a company, and then it has to stop completely. So someone can't move anymore. We have now seen that this is counterproductive in the case of peak loaders, for example. You might say to them, "You can't do it there anymore," and they say, "but I don't want to stop, because I'm young and I just got my business; I just want to move on." That is not possible with the buy-back scheme at the moment. So we have to adjust it at that point. And then you also get more opportunities to actually include those peak chargers in the scheme. So we think it will have a real effect in totality. The provinces can therefore determine what a good approach is to engage with those peak chargers and say: this is the way we could do it and in that place you might go on. In this way we also want to see how we can approach the peak loaders in a very targeted way, while also giving them the option to stop or move. So we can make meters there, like Mrs. Prince asked. Mrs Kluit asked for that too. That's exactly what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u199	I also asked about it; that is why I will come back to it. If such a relocation is involved, will new requirements be imposed on the company to be moved? And will these BAT rules, for example, also be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u200	If you're going to move, you want to make sure that such a company in the new place doesn't have a higher emission or deposition than at the previous place. Because then you're carrying water to the sea. That's why we need a little time to define that properly. So you'll have to give this kind of condition too. It will often be an existing company that you move to, and in that place it may not lead to a higher deposition. The deposition should even decrease. We still have to work out the definition, but that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u201	Can you also tell me when you have drawn up these new conditions? And would you like to inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u202	Sure. That is what we are doing at the moment of the second instalment. I agreed to review the first tranche before we open the second tranche. We also use this time to adapt these things. But in the meantime, of course, we can have the conversations with those peak chargers. You don't have to wait for that arrangement to open up with those conversations. That's what I'm talking about with the provinces: run those calls and just see what's possible there, so you can get on the bus right away when that second tranche opens. As soon as that tranche runs, therefore, that will be after the summer, I will also inform the Chamber about the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u203	I am glad that there is extra attention for the peak chargers, because I think that could help legalise the PAS notifications. We think that is very important. I do have one more question. We've asked for the gear. You indicate that you are going to pursue a two-track policy, with conversations and with evaluation. Can you increase its size so that we can take as many peak chargers as possible into that second tranche? We believe that speed is needed, especially for the PAS detectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u204	The amounts I now have for the buy-out are fixed. But I understand Mrs. Prince's question, especially when we see that there are really fast hits. I will have to understand myself with the Minister of Finance, because we would then have to bring forward budgets. If it turns out that there are opportunities that we miss differently, then I would like to talk to the Minister of Finance about what is possible. That is not an obligation to achieve results, but there is an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u205	That's a start, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u206	This is a refinement of the foregoing. I specifically asked whether priority could be given to companies that are around very vulnerable, nitrogen-sensitive natural areas so that problems could be solved more quickly. Especially when demand is high, it could solve the problems even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u207	We have asked the provinces to get a good picture of where the peak loaders are. Some provinces are very active in doing so themselves. This is often a matter of provinces where these sensitive areas lie, because the effect is quite high when you buy up a peak loader. I don't know the exact state of this moment. We are not going to say now: first you have to remove the peak chargers and then you have to go to another place. We do ask provinces to really look at the biggest peak loaders, because then, of course, you have the most effect. I often need to be able to move them and that is just not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u208	I understand the answer, but I think we're a little different in terms of urgency. I am also concerned about the prohibition on deterioration. Without being forced to buy out, there is no way to prevent the decline in the very sensitive areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u209	There was also the question: why volunteering? Mr Van Rooijen also asked about this. If you take it off, can you make meters faster? The experience is that forced buy-out often takes longer and becomes more expensive. Parties will say, "Go and prove why I have to leave this place." That could take years. Then I guess we should just try to have that good conversation with those people first. It is about people who are just sitting there legally; let us be clear about that too. Sometimes we pretend peak loaders do something very wrong, but they just have a permit for that. They can do that. But that can be done in another place perhaps in a better way, especially when you see what task we have for nature. If you start with "obligatory" and "as soon as possible," the shutters close very often. So it also seems to me to be a smart way of working if we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u210	Mrs Kluit, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u211	I understand this reasoning, too. It doesn't have to be on the table right away, but at the same time it is an instrument that can help companies to get the second tranche and give it a boost. My question is not so much whether it should be compulsory or not, but rather whether it should be prioritized in those areas that most need it. This way, we can prevent our deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u212	Once again, I see that the provinces that are most active in this area are also the provinces where the regions are relatively poor. I therefore believe that this will work in practice in this way. But I will keep you informed of the developments in that regard, so that you can take note of them yourself. In fact, I answered Mr Van Rooijen's question on the De Groot/Van Otterloo motion on the voluntary buying-in. The Party for Animals also had a question about that. I think I brought it, too. Mr Koffeman also asked about the animal welfare effects of the technical measures that are now being taken. Do I want to delete the measures if they are negative? We have correctly included in the subsidy scheme for the stables that animal welfare is one of the requirements, including for new housing systems. This is also tested by the RVO. We are also looking at the animal welfare aspects that are taken into account in the new innovations. You should be able to support that as an applicant. The criteria are set, for example the Sustainable Farming Model. Then it's about extra square meters per pet. Applicants should motivate themselves why their project improves animal welfare. This can be done, for example, by doing a claw study in relation to the new type of floor. These are all aspects that are taken into account. That is precisely what we have included in the terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u213	I was specifically curious about the adaptation of animal feed and what the health effects would be. Has that been investigated? Would you like to share that investigation with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u214	I thought it was really about the barn systems. I'm sorry I didn't get that right. Research has been carried out into how that could be done with the feed. Can I come back to that in the second term? Then I know what's specifically responsible there. Thank you. Mr Koffeman also asked about the arrangements for pig farming. He is right and I have never denied that this arrangement was initially opened up on the basis of smell. We only saw that the applications exceeded the available budget. Then we said: it would be rather strange to say to pig farmers now that they can no longer participate and then come back a week later to buy them up. Then you'd better take that with you, because at least we'll know that these pig farmers have a desire to end their business. We also knew that it was not the most targeted measure to reduce nitrogen. I've never been secretive about that either. I simply said: I agree with an overwritten arrangement and I want to be able to take swift action on it. In this sense, it does yield nitrogen gains, but the final termination still has to show how much. I can take that in the moment that that's done. I'll inform your room about that in due course. But it's true it wasn't initially focused on nitrogen. Let's see. Mrs Prins once again emphasizes the leading character of agriculture, including internationally. She asks me to confirm this ambition. That's what I want. Everything is aimed at ensuring that agriculture can remain a leader. If agriculture can adapt well to challenges that are far wider than only in the Netherlands, then I think agriculture is a step ahead of it. And we can put that back on the map internationally. Ms Prins also asked about the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems. We have indeed set up this task force to speed up the innovation of the barn systems. That task force recorded its findings in a report. That was offered to me on 1 February last. The report has been presented to the House of Representatives with the appreciation of the Secretary of State for IenW, which deals with the award of new techniques and innovations. I will ensure that your Chamber also receives a copy of this letter so that you can read for yourself how we will deal with the committee's recommendations. The task force sees three tracks. That is the design and implementation of a legal system that controls emissions targets; not on resources, but on targets. Furthermore, we must ensure that the current rules and procedures relating to the testing procedure are optimised. They also ask for some twenty pilots to be deployed, so that we can also show what it does. We will look carefully at how we can implement this. I'll send the letter to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u215	Minister, we come now at the time when I have to suspend for dinner break, also because of a number of other agenda items from some of us. Is that for you to do? Is this a good time to cut? Then we'll continue at this point after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u216	Let's see. Yeah, you can. Then we'll just get on with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u217	Then I'll suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u218	We need to follow up on the Prime Minister's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u219	I would have stayed with the agricultural block and I would have stayed with a question from Mr Recourt. He asked how we would ensure that the barn measures not only work on paper, but also in practice. When assessing new techniques, we will determine the reducing effect as accurately as possible. It is, of course, also important to optimise the current rules on the testing procedure and the practical implementation of the determination of emission factors. We must also make sure that the innovations that are approved actually generate the proceeds. Otherwise, we are putting farmers back on with all kinds of new demands and if it turns out that they will not meet again at the end, the deception is even greater. That's why we're gonna go through those test stalls and see if they're actually doing what they need to do before we really roll it out. Then I come to Mr Pijlman's BAT approach. He asked if I intend to apply it to agriculture. With regard to the stables, efforts are being made to tighten emission standards for existing and new stables. It'll go in in 2025. So you could already say that you're going to standardize and see what the barn should at least yield. The use of manure in recent years has always been subject to the best possible, most low-emission techniques. Then we also looked at the soil species and the type of crop. So we've been watching very closely. And we've talked about it before. We're also looking at the possibilities of applying a checkable balance of substances. You can't say: the best technology available in industry, you can stick one-on-one on agriculture. But we are trying to incorporate some of the principles behind it in agriculture in this way. Then I'll come to Mrs. Prince. It asks whether the measures we take in its words are 'EU proof' and we do not have to go back later, et cetera. They must indeed be EU-proof, so we are doing so at the moment when we draw up the regulation. So before an arrangement goes into operation, we have already been to Brussels where it is necessary. That is not always the case, because sometimes I also have the power to determine things myself, sometimes I don't. But I am talking to the sector parties about, for example, the national termination measure. But that must also be an arrangement that the EU is simply putting in place, because otherwise I cannot start it either. So those are also traces that you run before the scheme is fully implemented. I don't want to be flogged back to that later, I have to be sure. Then Mrs Klip asks about the purchase of land and whether I have discussed this with the Commission. We're already working hard on that. We have the Harbers/Geurts motion, which calls on the cabinet to work with the European Commission to ensure that land purchase does not become a mandatory condition in the national termination scheme. We have a very specific discussion with the European Commission on this issue in the week of 15 March. Mr Dessing asks whether I think that we have saddled agriculture with an unjust and unnecessary system, which is hitting agriculture hard. I admit that the task of reducing nitrogen is not small. There will really be some steps to be taken, which will require some effort in some areas. I also understand very well that farmers sometimes feel that they are here alone. But that is not the case. This bill is about a lot of sectors. It's not just about agriculture. Everyone will have to make a real contribution. We would like to clarify this for a long time. Because if something is important to a farmer, it is that he also has long-term certainty about what is going to happen, because he also has to adjust his investments to it, for example. We believe that with this package we are offering that long-term security. At the same time, we have also allocated a considerable amount of money to help farmers, so that they can also take these measures. Mrs Klip explicitly asked about the earning model. Can I recognise that the earning model is a key element in moving the agricultural agreement forward? That's right. So I can confirm that. She also asked whether I know Mr Erisman's research and the Gispoint Bureau on the nitrogen deposition map for effective reductions in emissions from agriculture and how I look at this. I know that investigation. My ministry has already been in contact with Professor Erisman and the RIVM. I very much appreciate that they have started looking at the implementation of the reduction exercise in other ways. I will see what I can do with that approach, also in the future. But I also think it is important that, in addition to reduction, we consider the consequences for the farmers, parties and regions concerned before we take those decisions. The deposition potential map can be used in the area-oriented approach I mentioned earlier in which provinces contribute to the implementation of the law and the national source package. Mrs Klip also asked about the accumulation of data in the areas. Several reports will be finalised on this subject in the near future, so we will also be involved in all the issues surrounding the spatial challenges we have. It is important that the cabinet can make the right choices. The approach of the National Rural Area Programme will also be in line with this choice. Mr Koffeman also asked about the farmers in Nieuwkoop. Is that in line with the legal sustainability? I say in general that I appreciate the fact that farmers are really looking for solutions to the problem. I often come across farmers who say that they are against this, but these are farmers who have taken it up and said that we really think there is something we can do here, but we should also have the opportunity to make that investment. The difference between what they do and what I do is that this is about private initiatives. It's not a government that does this, this is just a system where one company has nitrogen space and another company needs space. Then the external netting measure, as always, is open. That is not new in this bill, which has been an accepted method that has been allowed by the courts for some time. They take advantage of that. By the way, the Nieuwkoopse approach is part of this innovation gain for the benefit of nature. So in that sense it also leads to a reduction in nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u220	I fully agree with the Minister that it is very much to be welcomed that farmers are working on this, so there is no harm in that. But I understand that it is not only a private initiative, but also an initiative that has been subsidised by the government with €300,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u221	We have given them a budget which allows them to conduct a number of investigations, but that has nothing to do with us opening up the external netting itself or something like that. This is really between two private individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u222	But then the question is whether you can salad with the Rotterdam port, which takes over nitrogen space from you. That's different from between two farmers, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u223	External netting is not mandatory within one and the same sector; this can also be done across sectors. The criterion is whether it contributes to reducing the deposition on the Natura 2000 site. That will have to be tested, but that is no different from other rules on external netting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u224	Mr. Koffeman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u225	But the European rules require that a reduction in nitrogen is beneficial to nature, and not that you take it in another way to produce nitrogen there again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u226	The provinces have drawn up policy rules on external netting. In general, external netting is an accepted form, which has also been recognised by the judge. That's already happening, and that's not new. Inside there is also an exit of 30% of the nitrogen deposition that favors nature. In this sense, it is in line with the policy made by the province. Again, external salading is not new. It already happened, and it's accepted by the judge. Mr Koffeman also asked what I would do if, in his words, 'ramp the farmers back with tractors on the provincial door'. Like his translation: how do we ensure that the provinces also take the measures they need to take? The current legislation provides for the legal anchoring of the environmental value. The provinces translate them into the area plans, in which they indicate how they are going to achieve the goals of the law. Recording in the law is a reinforcement compared to the original bill. That's what we're all tied to. In this way, the provinces are going to indicate how they are going to do it. Then I'll establish that. Mr Koffeman also asked about the pigs. I have already answered the question about the buying-in scheme for pigs. Then I'll get to the reports. Many questions have been asked about this, among others by Mr Schalk. Mrs. Prins also had some reasonable questions about it. Mr Schalk asks, in particular, whether I can promise that priority will be given to the cases of the PAS crisis in nitrogen space. He mentioned some examples of what would have been real trouble. Let me put it this way: I know the problem and I hear it too. I myself recently had a conversation with a number of PAS detectors about problems they encounter in financing, banks and so on. Very specifically, there are farmers now who need something, which means that they will not be able to move forward now. I can make two commitments in that context. After a notification has been verified, a letter with the outcome of that verification shall be sent to the individual reporter. The reporters are sending their data to us now. We check them and can then determine: there is still room to search to legalize a notification. Sometimes it doesn't have to be and we can already see that the notification can be legalized. Sometimes we have to, and then we can say: we have your request under consideration. I don't know exactly how we're going to describe that, but in that atmosphere. We'll let the reporter know. It can then send a letter to the bank so that it can see that it is being worked on and that the permit can be granted at the time the space is available. That gives a little more certainty. At the same time, I keep talking to the banks to see what else it takes to give them the certainty they're asking for. For that, I look at all possible options that exist. So I keep everything upside down to see what helps. I see the problem and I see the acute issues we're facing. But if I say now that the troubles can come forward, I think there are just a few thousand complaints coming forward, because everyone calls themselves a bottleneck. So we need to take a closer look at the issues that need to be highlighted very specifically. But with such a letter and a conversation with the banks and also by looking at what is really needed in certain cases, we are already trying to deliver a piece of customization, so to speak. The best form there is is legalization. But we know it can take time before it's all done. Mr Schalk asked: is it correct that the legal guarantee of legalizing the legal problems in this law contributes to greater legal certainty for entrepreneurs? Any strengthening of a commitment... I made that commitment, but it's also in the law now. Reports that are legalized reduce uncertainty. This is true in broad terms. In the discussions with the banks, we need to see whether it is sufficient or whether additional efforts are needed to solve the problem. As I have said, I am prepared to include all the options. We can also see what role we can play in providing more security to the banks or something like that. So I'm gonna keep those options open. But it helps if this bill is passed, because then it is even clearer. Actually, I'm now obligating myself to legalize these notifications. I'm allowed to be held to that by the reporters. Then there is the question of costs. Mr Schalk and Mrs Prins had questions about this. I realize that the reporters have to put time and money into supplying the data. My intention is to relieve those detectors as much as possible. That is why I am talking to the provinces to see if and, if so, what concession detectors can get for their costs. I do need to talk to the provinces about this; I'm not quite done with that. I'll see what's possible at that point. I hope that I will be able to inform your Chamber of this when I have more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u227	I would like to ask the Minister the following. On the long list of PAS-detectors, it says that it is about 3,000 detectors, which is also Lelystad airport, for 45,000 flights. My question is whether the Minister intends to legalise this report on the 45,000 flights and how this relates to the controversial statement of Lelystad Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u228	This is where two discussions run through each other. Lelystad has applied for a permit. They didn't file a report. They have done so at an earlier stage, but now they have applied for a permit from me. The Chamber has declared the Lelystad file, the Lelystad political file, controversial. I'm talking about whether or not the airport opens. If I get a permit request, I'm just bound by legal frameworks to process that request. There is no political decision-making. If I live here in The Hague and apply for a rooftop, it is not the city council of The Hague that decides on this. Then the conditions must simply be met in order to be able to apply for a licence. That was also the case here. Schiphol transferred some of his flights to Lelystad. That has been the basis for the application for authorisation and I have taken a decision on it. That decision is now open to appeal. So everyone can now express their views on this. But that is independent of the political question of whether or not Lelystad should be opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u229	So the Minister has the same conditions for Lelystad? There must be a nature permit and all the basic conditions must be met; if that permit is not available, then there will be no permit for those 45,000 flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u230	No. They've now applied for a permit from me. I've made a decision on that. That decision has been made public. That's about the 10,000 flights that have now been transferred from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad. We know that Lelystad has a higher ambition, but this is what I have now been presented with and on which I have made a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u231	But if there's nitrogen space being stripped between Lelystad and Schiphol, you should at least have knowledge of how much nitrogen space Schiphol has left. Is that knowledge there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u232	Yeah, because Schiphol applied for a permit from me, too. All airports have applied for a permit for the Nature Protection Act. All of them? I'm just gonna get it out of my head. In this, they had to justify how they deal with it. They submitted them to me, and I've assessed them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u233	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u234	That's about the nature permits from Schiphol Airport and Lelystad Airport. But the point is that the nitrogen compensation between Schiphol and Lelystad is very difficult when you don't know how big the nitrogen space of Schiphol is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u235	There has been an earlier time when that has already been established. It's related to how much space there is. But now I'm going to do it out of my mind, because this really is the atmosphere of Lelystad's permit application. That's a little different than a PAS message. But we have looked at the nitrogen space that Schiphol had and how it related to the number of flights, also with the insights about nitrogen emissions from the new aircraft coming there. In addition, Schiphol transferred a piece of that space to Lelystad. That's what Lelystad used to get that license from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u236	Thank you for the Minister's answers on the PAS cases. I understand you've been able to commit two things. The question remains: can you also, in cooperation with the provinces, ensure that these urgent problems are given a prior authorisation, or is this too much to ask for? After all, you get some sort of priority list. Or is there some kind of relapse option, some kind of financial guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u237	The prioritization is pretty complicated. Then you have to describe very closely when someone is really a problem above a problem, because everyone is a problem at the moment. In addition, we will first have to verify the data we have. So we can't really see that in advance. I will try to see whether we can find a tailor-made solution on this issue, including in the area of funding and matters that are really running out of time. So it is also a case of cases where, for example, a transfer is made because one does not have a valid licence and the deal cannot continue. However, I am looking at how I can find a solution to this problem in a very specific way. I can see that there are major problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u238	My follow-up question was about the costs they make. They have administrative costs. They're about to have an ecological test and stuff. What about those charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u239	So that's what I'm talking to the provinces about. I understand very well the question that has already been asked in the Lower House, but also by you and Mrs Prins: how do we deal with these costs? So I'm talking to the provinces to see what we can do about it. I just can't give you the latest information about that, because that conversation is still going on. I do not think it is appropriate for the provinces to make statements about this. But we're really looking at what we can do. I will also inform your Chamber of the outcome of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u240	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u241	Thank you for that commitment, I say to the Minister. Does she have any idea at what time that will be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u242	I'll try to give it to you in a month. Mrs Prins asks if I can promise that by the end of 2023 the legalization of all the detectors and also the non-detectors will be completed. The law lays down that within three years of the establishment of the programme the measures necessary to legalise the notifications and the reporting-free activities are to be taken. My commitment is to get the programme started by the end of this year at the latest. The programme ends at the end of 2024. I want to do everything as much faster than that date as possible. Anything we can do, let's not leave it. So we're not gonna wait until the end, because that can really take some people too long anyway. Mrs Prins also calls for attention to be paid to the so-called "interimmers." There are others who have asked for it, like Mrs Klip. In the letter of 27 June 2019, I informed the Chamber that interim workers should apply for a permit themselves. In the House of Representatives, a Bishop's motion was adopted asking if I could make it clear what options are available for the interims to apply for that permit. I am now making these options clear to the initiators with the provinces. I also discuss with the province the possibilities to give permission to the group of interim workers who have previously been informed by a competent authority that a nature permit would not be necessary. That is important, because of course they want to know whether they need that permission or not. We are also dealing here with a recent ruling by the judge who, by the way, applies not only to the interim workers, but also to the wider question of whether you also need a new licence for internal salads. The judge has ruled that if you sell internally, that doesn't require a new permit. You'd say that's pretty good news, but that can increase uncertainty right now, because a lot of companies would think, "That's what they said last time. Then I didn't need a license and now I'm stuck with the fried pears, now I'm in trouble." So we are looking for roads along which we will let those who do not need a permit know. That is what we call a positive rejection of a licence application. This shows that the application has been made, but that we have made a positive rejection. In this way, they can create clarity at the moment that that question arises. Mrs Klip and Mr Pijlman asked if it could all be speeded up. With regard to the first reports, it will be clear before the summer whether the situation is legal. If they can just go through, we'll report it. There are also reports that have already received a permit during the PAS. So some of it has already been clarified. In addition, we really try to do everything as quickly as possible, to keep the pace. We also look at the space that falls free in the region, so that we can use it again to legalize the PAS detectors. We simply want to offer this legal certainty, which is what we are asking for. Mr Pijlman is still asking how much nitrogen space that actually costs to legalize all these reports. A total of 20 moles are expected to be needed to legalise the activities concerned. Of these, 11 mol comes from the development reserve and the 9 mol for the reporting-free activities. So you have the PAS-reports, but you have also had the reporting-free activities that were just underneath. Of course, you can get a higher yield from the peak loaders and we want to use them for this purpose, so that this benefits the reporting-free activities. For the summer the first detectors are thus told that their activity is allowed. So we are also going to work hard here to get that done. Mrs Kluit said that the PAS included not only notifications for legalisation, but also measures for buy-out, transition and relocation. She's asking for a response to that. Only the PAS notifications that have a total project effect of less than 1 mole are verified and legalized. She also asks that in relation to the peak loaders. She says, if you're going to legalize it now, do they have to be bought back or moved? Look, if you already know someone's gonna stop or want to go somewhere else, you can combine those cases. But very often that is not the case. I don't want it to be some kind of debinding condition to legalize a PAS message. So I want us in the business that goes there, with people who have made a PAS-report and want a permit, to just walk that path. Of course, if you know right away that a person is gonna quit, you're gonna take that with you. Someone will say that at some point, in the vein of "I'm not going through with this" or something like that. In other cases, someone can also want to sell his farm or something else. Then I'd like that to have a valid permit on it. So we're not gonna mix that up at this point. Mr. Chairman. That was the block of agriculture. Then I come to questions about AERIUS. Quite a few questions were asked about that. Ms Faber asked why the cabinet did not work with LOTOS-EUROS. In general: whatever model you use, there are uncertainties in it. The same applies to LOTOS-EUROS. It's no different. That's inherent to the models. Nevertheless, such deposition calculations based on AERIUS are the result of the most up-to-date scientific insights. The Hordijk Committee, which we have set up to look at this, has also concluded that the data methods and models used in the Netherlands are sufficient to good. The RIVM is working on continuous improvement of the system through updates. LOTOS-EUROS is currently unable to calculate at the same level of detail as desired from the current nitrogen policy. However, we are looking at other models that are used abroad and whether you can do a model ensemble as a result of a motion that has been adopted in the House of Representatives. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u243	But why should we necessarily want to count on such a level of detail? Why can't we just count on the European model, which is just less tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u244	If you don't, the nitrogen reduction task will be increased. The better you know what you need, the more refined you can determine the yield you need for that. Otherwise you will have to work with much larger margins and so you will have to reduce much more nitrogen at the front to make sure that nature does not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u245	But the emergence of peak loaders is also due to hexagons, for example, which are located against a Natura 2000 site, where extra nature is squeezed at the edges, which means that a hundred-metre shadow falls over the hexagon next to it? If you're sitting there with your farmland, you're just gonna be a peak loader. Of course, you have much less if you work with a larger scale, because the smaller the scale, the greater the uncertainties and the greater the differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u246	The bigger the scale, the more peak chargers we'd have. Because you're going to have to build in margins because you don't know exactly what effect it has on a Natura 2000 site. Then you have to build in much more precaution and so more farms will be considered peak loaders and more farms, from your perspective, will also be in the danger zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u247	Mrs Faber, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u248	I don't quite follow that. At the moment you're going to split everything up into very small areas, then those small areas are more likely to be seen as areas with too high nitrogen deposition. That is what you see when you are on such a Natura 2000 site that is pushed up on the edge. I wonder if that's also the case if it's much bigger. Because where are the most problems? That is precisely in those small areas, not so much in the larger ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u249	I'm gonna try and explain it again. We have a very sophisticated system, in which we can see very well where the nitrogen comes down. The less well you know, the bigger the area must be. You don't know exactly, so your margins must be larger to prevent nature from being affected by the nitrogen deposition. The larger that area, the more parties that are going to be included, the more you will have to reduce nitrogen in order to make sure that you have no effect on a given area. So this is where Mrs Faber is actually going to object to our refinement, when, I think, she should be grateful for that. Indeed, if we were to do it at a higher level of abstraction, many more companies would also have nitrogen deposition in larger areas, because we cannot find it so sophisticated. This should also reduce nitrogen in order to ensure that we do not deteriorate nature. Let's see. Mrs. Prins also asked about extending measurement points. We have said, following the measurement and calculation report, that we will increase the number of measurement points. I asked RIVM to draw up a network strategy. The RIVM compares the model calculations with the measurements. On this basis, they adjust their models again, so that these models become more and more sophisticated. If there are new insights to determine nitrogen deposition, this does not affect the obligation to obtain the environmental value. So we're really more refining the model and it's not like that's going to work right through into the environmental values; they're just fixed in this law now. However, the emission reduction statement may increase or decrease as a result of adjustments in the model calculations. Here again we're going to refine again it's a bit of the mirrored discussion we've just had to make sure we know better where to reduce that deposition. That's, I think, for everyone's sake. Mrs Huizinga asked: are the measurements also in order to determine the targets? Yeah, because we're gonna collect those cases in emission registration, too. We also need to take those measurements to check the calculations. So I am expanding the measurement networks in agriculture and the nature reserve. In 2021, most of those extensions will be operational. In that case, it shall be possible to measure year round from 2022 onwards. Sometimes it may be necessary for us to do additional monitoring to establish business properly and just to do it accurately. But we will all include that in the monitoring plan. Mrs Klip asked: how is the nitrogen registration system in the storage functions for the reserve nitrogen space balanced between not spilling nitrogen space and using it properly? Optimize efficiency, I'll call it. The recording system shall keep accurate records of the amount of space available and how much is being spent. So you avoid spilling it; let me put it this way. We need to be able to establish that very precisely at the moment. Otherwise you're just not sure if you're worsening nature at the moment you're doing new activities. The purpose of the register is precisely to coordinate it very well. Mr Pijlman asked how long it would take for the nitrogen registration system to be fully operational. With the provinces I am now working on a system to use the free space at external salads for social purposes, specific tasks and projects. We've just had a few examples. The provinces can already register the vacant space. From April, it will be limited to spending that space. The system is expected to be fully operational in autumn 2021. Mrs. Prins also asked about that; that was the same question. That is in the autumn of 2021, but probably the provinces can do a number of things on a small scale in April. Let's see. If the systems are properly coordinated provincially, Mrs. Prins asks. That is indeed the conversation I am having with them, because we do not want different registration systems next to each other. The provinces don't want that either, because sometimes it goes beyond provincial boundaries. We are working to ensure that all this is properly linked. We are working together to make that one system. Mrs Prins also asked how we can make the allocation of nitrogen space prevail over the general interest and not the importance of one province. We are now setting up this system so that it will become one nationwide system of protection. Exactly what it is used for depends not only on the intergovernmental agreements that still have to be made, but also on the space that becomes available at hexagon level. But in one province of course you have different tasks than in another, so one province can still have quite a lot of housing statements while in another province that is not the case at all. It might be better to use the space for, for example, a sustainability project or something like that. So you'll see at the local level where the different choices are going to be. This is also the result of the regional plans. I am not going to fill that out nationwide, because the data can be very different from one area to another. But if we have national tasks, we must ensure that they are properly integrated and properly integrated into those regional nitrogen banks, as you call them. Whether we ourselves are in control of this system, she asks. We are working on this together. We must, of course, also ensure that the system is legally sustainable. Thus, this system is being developed within the legal frameworks for external netting, so that it is legally accepted as such; I just said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u250	When do we talk about a national task and when is something regional? Because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u251	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u252	At the MIRT, this often gets mixed up, because it makes national agreements with the local authorities about what needs to be done. In housing we have had the housing impulse and the housing deals that are closed with the regional parties. Sometimes, for example, you also have things about the Defense Department, because they have to be able to do things. It is in all our interests that they can practice and develop things. So that is exactly the conversation we are having with the provinces, where it really coincides one time. That province just wants a road, too, and it just wants those homes. The other time we will just have to get it right because it is in all our interests that things should be picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u253	So that's not exactly what we're talking about. You start with the county. It doesn't come out, because she doesn't have enough development space if the system works completely. I was talking about buildings related to energy transition or climate objectives. The province then consults with you and says: this is actually in the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u254	In practice so far, it's just more of an interaction. When I talk about the energy statements, we were talking about an example in the North of the Netherlands, of course, the province also has an interest in allowing this project to go through. He also sees, for example, that there is not enough space. So we are thinking about where you could create that space. At the moment that space is in such a bank, you consult each other administratively: this is something that serves both of us; can this happen now, yes or no? At times we as the Empire will also have a priority where it is less obvious that it is equally provincially served. I mentioned the example of the Defense Department. In addition, you have to work out administrative arrangements. So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u255	Mr. Pijlman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u256	Take housing in this region, for example. On the one hand, it is provincial and, on the other, it is national and goes beyond provincial boundaries. Then how do you determine whether that space is there, what that space is allocated to, and by whom? Can you say for these kinds of big tasks in particular: a piece of provincial, a piece of national? Or are you saying there's not enough room, I have to make sure there's more in the bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u257	Those are exactly the flavors you have. If you say in advance "this is provincial and this is national," I think you're limiting yourself too much. Because one time it might be a little more national and the other time you think: well, we don't have so many tasks here. By fixing that in advance, you limit yourself more than when you look into such an area plan and think: what are the tasks for such an area? We as the Empire also have a number of tasks to accomplish. Often they run together. So that's the beauty of it: let's not make it any harder than it is. Sometimes there's a few choices in there. By the way, the choice is not so much between the Empire and the Province, but sometimes also between provinces. We were just talking about an airport. That doesn't stop at the county line. Then you also get issues at other county boundaries how to do that. This therefore requires that we have a good conversation with each other about how to get out of there and how to use that space. There's no blueprint ready to direct it all that way. Mrs Faber asked why I had not yet argued with Brussels about the NEC emission ceiling. Mrs Faber said to me: you are worse than the European Commission. At Mrs Faber's house, that will really be a swear word. At my house, they're gonna think, "Well, okay, then don't." She also wants me to fight with the European Commission. We mainly have substantive discussions, sometimes intrusive substantive discussions. The European Commission has repeatedly called for the prevention of deterioration and the achievement of a more favourable conservation status. The Netherlands complies with the national emission ceilings applicable to nitrogen oxide and ammonia. This also applies to the emission ceiling under the Gothenburg Protocol, because they are the same. The responsibility for licensing industry lies with the province. Mrs Faber asked for that too. Of course, there must also be good enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u258	I would like to mention the emission ceilings. I've got a state here. It states that the Gothenburg Protocol ceiling for, for example, nitrogen oxide is 202. We're at 276 or 260 now. That's too high already. If we're gonna transfer nitrogen from ammonia to nitrogen oxide, then we're gonna shoot all over it, I think. We're already above that ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u259	It looks at national ceilings in which ammonia and nitrogen oxide are taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u260	Would you like to say that again? You went so fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u261	It looks at national ceilings in which ammonia and nitrogen oxide are taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u262	Yes, but that's... excuse me, I have to ask you if I may have the floor, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u263	Mrs Faber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u264	That is strange, because agreements have been made and there are just different pillars. I am not going to call them all "b" we do not have time for "b" but we have an ammonia pillar and a nitrogen oxide pillar, just to mention it. You can't just mix it, because that certainly has consequences. One nitrogen compound is not the other nitrogen compound. This also has consequences for the particulate matter, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u265	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u266	We have... Oh, the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u267	I can only say that we are meeting the national emission ceilings, and that is what we are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u268	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u269	I've got a record here from the Planning Bureau for the Environment, so it doesn't make any sense. I'm not gonna say you're telling the truth, but either this isn't right or what you're saying is wrong. I've got the state of the PBL right here. It really says that the Gothenburg Protocol ceiling for nitrogen oxide is 202. And the actual emissions are already 276. That's too high. When I look at ammonia, I see that the Gothenburg protocol ceiling is 123 for that, but we are still 122. We're still under that. But what happens if we cross over? We're already too high on nitrogen oxide and then it gets even higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u270	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u271	I'm gonna go check out Mrs. Faber's chart. Let me come back to that in the second term, because I want to see exactly what state she has to deal with, if that is all right with her. Then I can focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u272	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u273	If she wants to hand that over to me, that would be nice. Then I can go over it. Yes, very good. Mr Janssen is still asking about the great commitment to the non-agricultural sectors. He asked whether it would not be possible to look at sectors other than agriculture alone and whether this could not lead to binding agreements. In the industrial and mobility sectors, emissions from NOde will be significantly reduced by climate policy in the coming years. Think of the forthcoming CO levy for industry. There's not much of a commitment to that. That's just a binding deal. Think also of European road transport standards and international agreements on the reduction of emissions from shipping. In addition, for both sectors, the source package includes measures to further reduce NO emissions, such as the subsidy scheme for retrofitting inland navigation or the best available techniques. We've been talking about it for a while. The grant decision or any adjustments for the optimization of the best available techniques are also binding agreements. So it's not just noncommittal what's happening. Mr Janssen also asks when the sharp set of national rules for salading will come. We already have a set of national rules for salading. In December 2019 I made agreements with the provinces. Those rules are also firmly aligned between the Empire and the provinces. However, there are differences between the provinces in the timing and opening of external netting with livestock for projects where provinces are competent authorities and in the area-specific conditions made by the Deputy States in consultation with their stakeholders. I respect that the provinces make choices in that. It is also their authority to do so. There are, moreover, a few provinces that are about to open up external netting with livestock farms. These are Utrecht, Drenthe and Noord-Holland. Gelderland is not yet open for external salading with livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u274	Not everything fits the second term. I am trying to limit myself, but I wonder if the differences between the provinces in the chosen approach may also put pressure on legal sustainability. Maybe the minister can reflect on that. While basic rules have been agreed, they are being introduced differently. Does the Minister agree with me that there may be risks to legal sustainability if such differences between provinces arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u275	The biggest difference is whether or not the external netting with the livestock is open. I mentioned just now the provinces that have not yet done so, the provinces that are about to do so and the province that has not yet done so at all, namely Gelderland. By the way, they do the option of release. But this is one of the powers of the person granting the licences. So these are policy rules that provinces are allowed to draw up. The degree of difference between the different policy rules is therefore quite limited: it is limited to the question of whether or not the external netting is being opened up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u276	Maybe the Minister will come back to it, or else I will come back to it in the second term, but I am concerned about the differences that arise between what may then be broken off externally, so if there are differences in the determination of what may be broken off externally. I'm just saying: one province says you can salad there, even with a barn that hasn't had animals for years, but which still has half a roof on it and a few walls on it, and the other province says: no, there really must have been animals kept in it to use it as a clearing room. Does the Minister see any differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u277	We don't have any differences. This was an issue in the run-up to the adoption of the policy rules. You remember that there was a case in Flevoland; I will just mention that for a moment, because I think that is what Mr Janssen is referring to. That was before the policy rules were laid down. Now, across the provinces, agreements have been made on how we deal with it. Mr Janssen also mentioned active licensing management. He made a point of that, and I understand that very well. Do we really have eyes on all the permits that have been issued? Now we have the Nature Protection Act. Of course, the licences issued there are also laid down. It is also a task for the person issuing the licence to keep up with it. I also agree with Mr Janssen that lack of capacity cannot be an argument for this. I am now looking at various options with the competent authorities for adapting the authorisation system. I am also looking at the existing permits, because we need to get a better idea of what is going on there. I expect to be able to tell the House later this year more about how far we are and how this exploration is going. This is a point that Mr Janssen rightly points out. We are already working on it, but I hope to be able to provide more information later this year. He also has a question about fraud. He says that we really need to prevent fraud. I totally understand that he's saying that, and I agree with him. He also has a specific proposal, namely to have the Strategic Environment Chamber look into whether this is happening. Of course, I must also discuss this with the provinces, but I will also urge the provinces to have such a check carried out by the Strategic Environment Chamber, so that we also get a good picture of the risks involved. But as far as the process is concerned, I really need to establish this with the provinces in the administrative consultation, but I am willing to look into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u278	Thank you for this commitment. The provinces, the local authorities, have a representation in the Strategic Environment Chamber and also know how things are going. I do not quite understand the route with the provinces, because it is a system of netting which we find to be of great social importance that this does not happen. So it is not so much a question of having them investigate very closely whether it is already happening. If they have signs of this, it is good, but it is more about risk analysis: where are the risks? 'Cause we're still in the lead now. The further we get into the trajectory, the more things go wrong, because the signals dolls on the left and right already.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u279	It is more that I think it is procedurally neat, because the provinces draw up the policy rules on the basis of which that netting is also made possible. Those are their policy rules. If I go over that now and say I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna think it's so neat to tune that up with them for a little while. But if I hear it from Mr Janssen now, I do not think it should be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u280	Minister, how far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u281	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I'm going through the last few cases pretty quickly. I come now to the tip of the county. We have, of course, already exchanged quite a lot about that. Mr Pijlman asked what would happen if the targets were not met. I've indicated that we have the area plans. The provinces have to report to me how they fill that out. They have to have a plan with the Natura 2000 resources, the natural resources, and then I give the money. They are also bound to environmental values when this law is passed. In the most extreme case, we come to a clue. That's not the situation I hope to meet, but that's all there is to it. Mr Pijlman also asked if there was a single framework for such an area plan. An amendment has been tabled, which has also been adopted, which is now contained in the law of Mr Futselaar and Mr De Groot, which states that they must draw up these land plans. This is how the contribution to the achievement of the rural environmental values is worked out. The Empire has now provided framework and framework conditions for these area plans through the IPO. So that is also aligned, so that the provinces know what they have to comply with. Mrs Prins also asks to stay in close contact with the provinces, so that it is not only when the plans are presented that it becomes clear whether or not they will be reached. I'm in close contact, and I'm staying in touch. We also work well with the IPO. Mr Recourt also asks about the provinces, because there are sometimes regionally insufficient opportunities to find solutions. I know that in some areas the challenge of reducing nitrogen is great and the source measures are difficult to take. We are therefore looking at what can be done in specific situations with the provinces. This can be about an energy transition project one time and housing the other time. We really work together in that to see how we can come up with solutions. That's easier one time than the other time; that's what I'm telling you honestly. Has there been any discussion with provinces about the additional costs they incur? That's what Mrs. Prince is asking. The nature implementation programme provides for up to 15% of the budget to be devoted to implementation costs at programme level. We also make agreements with the provinces about this. It is also laid down in the specific distribution to the provinces. Mrs Huizinga asks why I did not choose to set the objectives at provincial level. The Remkes Committee has also proposed this. The programme we are about to adopt contains a large part of national source measures. That is what I really stand for, together with my colleagues. That means that on parts, so not everywhere, it requires an action from the province. But most of them are also national measures, and then I do not think it is appropriate to leave them with the provinces if they are not able to exert so much influence on them. Conversely, I do have a number of means in my hands to ensure that those provinces meet the goals. I have just explained them in response to Mr Pijlman's question. Provinces will also keep each other sharp, because if a province doesn't do what it has to do, it can have an equal effect in the other province. This way, we'll keep each other sharp. Finally. If a province does not meet its own goals, it will have an equal effect on the area for economic development in its own province. And that's felt right there on the spot. It is therefore also in the interests of oneself to take this action. Mr President, then there are the last questions in the block. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether the buying-in programme of farms could not be linked to promoters of building senior housing. He mentioned a kind of Marketplace-like situation with municipal involvement and cooperation. We share with Mr Van Rooijen the importance of adequate accommodation for the elderly. There is also a large residential care for the elderly, which we would like to realize in clustered housing. We also think it is important to increase the supply of these products. We encourage this through the construction of these forms of housing. The Minister of BZK made available 20 million in 2021 and 2022 to finance the meeting room in such forms of housing. That was on the basis of motions of 50PLUS and the SP, which made this possible. I am prepared, if, in the long term, any land purchased that is appropriate to the regional task of housing for the elderly, to see whether win-win is possible, but I would like to stress the fact that the initiative and direction lie with the region. I wouldn't want to just go through this decentralized jurisdiction as a Empire. We really need to look at how we can shape things from below. Mr Van Rooijen says that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has promised to design 20 million twice. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is busy preparing the grant scheme and organising its implementation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The scheme is tailored to the needs of organisations wishing to achieve this meeting area. They will be consulted on this this month. Before 1 May, the House of Representatives will be informed of its outcome. Mr Raven asks me to support the extensive transition process of the Limburg chemical industry. That is a little wider in the cabinet, but for "I" I read "the cabinet." The government strongly supports the energy transition in Limburg, as well as in other provinces. It also offers opportunities to reduce CO and nitrogen at one stroke and thus contribute to climate change, cleaner air and the alleviation of nitrogen problems. He also asked whether a revolver fund for viability could be set up to further this regional situation. I think it is incredibly important to look at the possibilities in the various regions. Of course, this cabinet has set up a regional envelope to meet these regions for a reason. In the area plans, therefore, the starting point is the specific task in an area. Linking with other tasks is possible. This is often also a prerequisite for achieving this integrated approach. With this bill, the provinces have specific proposals that they can make to see where more impact can be achieved than we imagine. If they prove that what they are doing brings us further than what we have invented, then they can suggest it and I have to look seriously at it. The setting up of a revolver fund is now a bit premature. I just want to see what kind of plans they're all going to make and how we can support them. Then there's the question about the plug. Do we have enough plugs? We had to look, but we have a National Agenda Loading Infrastructure; I learn a lot here. It cooperates with parties to analyse and address bottlenecks. In the coming years, network operators will invest heavily in expanding and strengthening the electricity network to accommodate growing demand from different sectors, including electrification of construction activities. Mrs Prins owed me an answer from the first period on the PBL. She asked when they could start heading 2035. It's actually kind of a continuous process. We are now looking, also in cooperation with stakeholders, at what additional source measures would be possible for the target towards 2035. As soon as we get a closer look at this, we will already ask the PBL how far they can calculate it. Actually, that's already going on. Then the question is whether they can determine that at that time. For that, they must also have the latest insights of what they know. We are still working on the inventory of these measures. As soon as we have that and submit what we then know, we will of course continue to color in it as it were. That is therefore an ongoing process. I have two other questions. The first one is Mrs. Kluit's. She had a very specific question about a cooperation initiative, so I call it VNO, LTO, Natuurmonumenten, SMBs The Netherlands and many other parties.............................................................................................................................................................................. I really like the fact that those parties are picking up the glove together, because I think that's the profit of this plan. It is important that there is broad support and therefore ownership when developing the nitrogen approach. I would like to support that. I'd also like to talk to them to see what they need. So here's the commitment. I would like to return to Mr Koffeman's question on animal health in the animal feed measures. I am talking to the agricultural parties about the animal feed measure. Part of this is that we carry out animal feed pilots with practical companies for the further reduction of the crude protein content. Those pilots are under strict scientific supervision. The KNMvD will also be involved. So the vets are there, too. They'll monitor that too to see what it does with animal health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u282	Do I understand from this that there will be an accurate monitoring of the project, but that no scientific research has been done prior to the project? So we're going to give the cows less protein-rich food and not know what the health effects are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u283	No, it's not. This animal feed measure only looks slightly different from, for example, last year's. It was sharper. We now have a few more degrees of freedom that we can use. Last year this was limited, because it had to be enforceable and enforceable in that year. That narrowed us down a bit. We also looked at what that does to animal health. There were also different insights in that. In the end, this did not produce sufficient results to implement the measure. That is why we have said that we are looking very closely at what the measure we are currently drafting is doing in practice. It doesn't matter how you shape that measure. This also ultimately determines the effect on animal health. Let me put one thing first: animal health must not suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u284	That's pushing the question, isn't it? Because if research has been carried out a year ago and tests have been carried out on low-protein feed in an even sharper way than is currently the case, then no prior scientific research has been done. Can the Minister share with the Chamber the scientific research that has been done and the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u285	The investigation is going to take place the moment we shut down those pilots, because it depends very much on how you shape that measure. It is therefore different from last year's measure. Therefore, these measures are not entirely comparable either. You have to give the scientific insight into what you want to do. I think that's the most sensible thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u286	Mr. Koffeman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u287	But then I am very curious about the results of last year's trial. Does the Minister want to share it with the Chamber, because then we can look at the pilot from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u288	Last year there was no trial, because I did not introduce the measures at the end of the day. Mr Koffeman may remember that. When it appeared at some point that the nitrogen content in the roughage was so high because of the dry summer, I indicated that the profit was really not at all achievable. Or sorry, it was so low because of the dry summer. The farmers had to feed, because otherwise they would have problems with animal health. In addition, profits evaporated. In the end, that was never introduced. What we are doing now is another measure. I'm gonna use the pilot to monitor how that goes and where you have to do it. If I have any more information on this matter, I will inform you about it. But it makes no sense to compare it with last year, because that was a completely different arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u289	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u290	Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions I had left in my folder, so I think I've answered the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u291	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u292	Thank you. Mr President, I see that time is running. I will do the second term in three points. First, I have some remaining questions. Then I would like to express my thanks and, finally, to consider the opinion that I will give to my group. The remaining questions from me follow on from what Mr Koffeman said around Schiphol. It's still not quite clear to me what's going on. I would also like to tell the Minister that this kind of package deals on my side of society they are so experienced as to create a great sense of unrest. I can't really say it any other way. We think: we make an appointment to legalize farmers who have made a PAS-report, but suddenly there are all kinds of flights in there for an airport that is very controversial. My question is as follows. There's a balance between Schiphol and Lelystad. Has 30% been surrendered, as with the other processes, and can that support be sent to us? The second question that remains is about the PAS detectors that are also a peak loader or sitting at a clumsy location. I know what the Minister's saying. I'm looking at something else to see if you need to legalize those companies for that license, but I can follow that. My question is actually: will the Minister with the provinces ensure that the companies in question receive the fair message immediately? Because I would find it very sad if companies after years of uncertainty first think "I'm here," then after two, three or five years to be approached by a province that says "you still have to move" or something. So I mean that at least the message is given that the location or the company has issues for the medium or long term. Then a word of thanks. I don't know if we'll see the minister until the election. Not as far as I know. So I would like to thank the Minister anyway for the pleasant cooperation of the last few years. My party is very critical, so we couldn't always go along. In fact, I don't think we ever went with the minister in the law. Oh, yeah, one more thing: with the minks, not insignificant either. But I would also like to thank the Minister. Not only on behalf of GroenLinks, but also on behalf of the VVD, the CDA, the PvdA and the SP, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to talk to the social parties and to support and facilitate them on the route they themselves want to go in order to find solutions to the nitrogen problem. For some parties it's exciting. They're gonna need help staying at the table. But I am confident that the Minister will make a commitment to this. Then I come to the judgment of the law. The Minister knows that we are critical of the law. I've been looking, in the lead, but also now, whether this law is going to contribute to the destruction of that fence, because that's what it's basically about. Drenthen says something else about that, which says: it is a means of communication. But in my view, we should try to lower that fence or perhaps solve it completely. Then the following questions are important. My party looks at this from the ecosystem's point of view: is the system as a whole okay? But also: is the species and individuals in there going well? Then I think about the cows in the stables and the food they get. Is this bill going to ensure a resilient nature within those Natura 2000 sites? I think it is a step forward and that certainly a lot of areas in the Netherlands, or at least a significant part of them, are making enormous progress with what is now going on. But there are also very vulnerable areas in the Netherlands. That is a very small part of the Netherlands. I hear my colleagues saying that we have so much nature in the Netherlands. It just isn't. We have a small area of nature in the Netherlands and that is under great pressure. That's what I keep hearing the Minister say. We therefore believe that we should stand very firmly in favour of this and that we should not take any risks. I'm not comfortable with that. That's what's in the answers to the restraining order. I don't think we're gonna keep that dry with the judge. And it's also in the uncertainty about the long-term measures. I understand we don't know that yet, but I'm glad we're getting started on that, but I'd like us to know that in advance, so before we pass the law. Then outside the gate. Is nature development going well outside the fence? For that, too, we are taking a lot of steps with the package that is in place today. But there are also a lot of uncertainties in it. Those stables, the technique of the stables; we hope that it works well, but in the past it has worked very often badly. The food; we hope it works, but there are still a lot of hooks and eyes on it. We do not know whether it can actually be deployed as large scale. We also miss a few things. We did not talk about this today, but I refer to the basic policy, the role of the banks in it. Are we taking sufficient steps to give farmers the confidence to make that change really large-scale? During its period, the Minister has set the course enormously, but I think it needs to be harder and we need to do it faster. This also has to do with the last point: does this bill support the people in our society? I think that all of us, together, should look at my fellow Members, not only at the farmers, but also at the builders, that we should also look at the people in the houses and that we should also look at the people who love nature very much and want it to be protected. All things considered, therefore, I am going to advise my group to vote against it. That's not because I don't appreciate the Minister's work, but because I think there really should be parties that should stand for what we should do. And that's guaranteeing nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u293	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I shall then give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP, but I shall do so only after I have given the floor to Mr Pijlman to make another interruption following Mrs Kluit's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u294	I have a question. Mrs. Kluit is very critical. Well, there's nothing wrong with that. She always is. But what is she really missing in this law? What measures should have been added to draw GroenLinks over the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u295	I think there's two of them. As I said, I've asked a lot of questions about the prohibition on deterioration. Can we actually say in advance that we are complying with this? The answer on behalf of my group is 'no'. That is the first point. Is it hard enough to prevent us from seeing any further deterioration? Some parties say: let's opt for robust, large-scale nature. Mr. Otten, that appeals to me very much, because of course there is a great solution. On the other hand, however, the parties who on the one hand argue in favour of not being too busy with stamps never come up with proposals to build half of the Netherlands or, for example, the Veluwe-Oostvaardersplassen connection. I'm just gonna wait for that kind of proposal. The second point is the following. We're looking at 2035 now. Even of that, we don't quite know how to get there. So it's gonna be a bit of a fog. That is too short for my group. We believe that we should go to 100% acres, and also in 2050. We have developed a proposal for this ourselves. This shows that in 2040 you should have done all the work, to be at 100% healthy conservation in 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u296	Thank you. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u297	The back door, I get that. But then you're back in that critical attitude. But what I am missing is: what measures would you like added? What are the measures that GroenLinks lacks in this law, which you cannot agree to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u298	I would like a brief answer, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u299	I would say: read our accounts, because there are a lot of measures in there. Yes, that is a short answer, but that is to meet our President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u300	Thank you. We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u301	Okay, I'll follow the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u302	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I'll follow you, too. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u303	Thank you, Mr President. As one of the first speakers, I had not yet had the opportunity to congratulate Mr Berkhout on behalf of my group for his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Because of the fact that I tried to keep it simple, I didn't turn it into a Moltalk by going into details about all moles. But I have focused on the legal framework, because I believe, as the Minister also said, that the legal framework is necessary to resolve an ecological emergency. But for that, you do need that framework. All these measures are deliberately not in the law but separate, otherwise you have to change the law every time you add a measure. I don't think that's the right thing to do. How the system works now That's what the Minister has confirmed is that there are three buttons. The targets are in the law. Times are in the law. The measures are the key to which we can turn. If you want to reach the targets and you're threatening to fall behind, then you're going to have to take more action. I think that's a simple system. That is clear and understandable. I think that also greatly increases the legal sustainability. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that the Minister said that the specific programme will come before the summer. I think it is also necessary and that we really should not waste any more time there. But the minister also said she wants to pay more at company level. That's what she said in a different context. That's great, but you need to know what's going on in a company. Then you should know the permits, too. Then you need to know exactly what's going on. The Minister said that this will be more so in the course of the year. But is it in the picture or is there a first impression? That is a point for me, because we need to know that. But it's a good thing it's going at company level. My experience is that that's the only thing that works, because when you start thinking in domes, there always comes up with an excuse why one doesn't work, and then it's always mostly the other. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also talked about additional measures. We can go from voluntary to mandatory, or subsidies can go different or sooner. She did not have the extra measures, but I think they should be ready. There's got to be. They should be on the shelf. We shouldn't think about that when we need them, because then we're too late and then we're running after the facts. The same applies to monitoring and reporting. I myself referred to long-term programmes where the results are often recorded at the end. As an example, I mentioned the MEE Covenant, which was about renewable energy. That ran for ten years, and it turned out it hadn't worked. We don't want that. We can't afford that with nitrogen either. I also think that we need to know permanently whether this is a matrix or a road map; I do not care what it is called "what measures are being put into effect at what time and when we expect results from it. It may also be a measure which will enter 2022 and which we expect to have effect only in 2028, but we need to know that this measure has entered into force so that we can get a clear picture of it. Continuity in implementation is of the utmost importance. We can't wait. It has to be speedy, but it has to be right, because we can't afford to miss a second time. That is why I would like to point out the following. The minister said the new AERIUS system will come in October. As a deputy, I was always mad about the green and red hexagons that changed colour in every new version of AERIUS. Then you just thought it was in order and then it went a whole other way in one go. Then you had to change it again. The Minister said before: no mistakes, but we are already going ahead of the system to see how we can use new maps that have not yet been established when applying for a permit. I have my doubts about this, because an application for authorisation is not only between an applicant and a competent authority, but also towards an environment. All such data must therefore also be public and accessible to the environment. I wonder whether a card that has not yet been adopted will provide sufficient legal basis to base a permit, but that is a comment on my part. Mr. Chairman. I'm here on agriculture. That's what the Minister was talking about. Opportunities for young farmers: very good. The report 'Earth, farmer and consumer deserve better', which the Minister referred to and took note of, seems to me to be a very good opportunity to tackle the wide-ranging consultation that is about to take place. The provinces must have adopted the plans within two years of their entry into force. Then I think: March 15, 2023 there are provincial elections. That means we're gonna have to hurry. It shouldn't fall somewhere in an election period with a six-month college formation, if it doesn't work out, and we shouldn't lift it over the summer and so on, because then we're gonna lose an incredible amount of time. The anticipatory effect of elections is always such that it is usually said: let's not do too many new things anymore; we will do so after the elections. But we can't afford that here, so please also pay attention to the timing. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has said that the capacity of NVWA and its environmental services is the call to provinces and municipalities to ensure it, but the NVWA is really the power of the Minister..... should not be a restrictive factor in monitoring and enforcement, if we want to do this right. At least that's how I understood the Minister. I thought she said that. I'm glad she did, too, if that's what she meant. Then the SMK and the fraud risk analysis. I am pleased that you are discussing it with the provinces, but I hope that it will be followed up. I think that's where the insight lies. We need to look at the risks and not what is already the case with fraud. If there are signals coming in through the judicial line, it is very nice to pick them up already. The competent authority does not know them either, I say from experience. They really come in on a different line. So it would be nice if it could be done at some speed, even in the administrative consultation with the provinces. I do not mean that it is asked only after the summer, but that it comes at some speed and that it can get to the SMK quickly, because as I said, it does not come unexpectedly for them. Mr. Chairman. I have already said at the end of my first term that we believe that this represents the legal sustainability of a system that needs to be properly implemented. Then I think we can get to work on this. I think that we can get back to housing, that we can offer people houses again, that we do not let nature go further backwards, as we are obliged to do, and that we can make a huge improvement in that. Then it will have to work with each other, but then it will have to be carried out quickly and in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u304	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. To the second! Very handsome. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to congratulate Mr Berkhout on his maiden speech and thank the Minister for answering the questions. As I have heard the Chamber, it also applies to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a very large part of this Chamber assumes that nature is going badly. But no one knows to what extent the results of the calculation models actually come out with the actual deposition. This is because very little is being measured. The Hordijk Committee and the Remkes Committee also overlook the lack of measurements. The AERIUS model has a central function in the whole of nitrogen reduction, but that system has a lot of uncertainties. The Minister defends the AERIUS system, but when we look at the Hordijk report, we see that it indicates that the uncertainty in deposition calculations is very large. The Hordijk Committee considers that the current calculation method used within AERIUS leads to false certainty and that it is not sufficiently robust. The advisory college concludes in summary that the current calculation method applied within AERIUS is not currently targeted. The degree of detail in the deposition calculation is not balanced with the uncertainty of the various factors determining the deposition. But we are going to hang 5 billion from a system that has all these uncertainties and imbalances in it. Then I'll come back to the SDF. No, I'll get to the surface first. The number of hectares of nitrogen-sensitive nature is quite extensive, from 90,000 hectares to 172.000 hectares. Some species are added to the habitat types. So we have AERIUS, which is uncertain, the surfaces are increasing, species are being added, and so on. That, of course, makes the drama complete, especially for our farmers. I'll come back to the SDF. The Minister and I had a little debate on that and maybe I misread it. So I'm gonna try again. The Netherlands does not comply with the European classification systems in the national reports on the quality of Natura 2000 sites and uses its own kind of system. In fact, you get two types of Natura 2000 sites: one for communication for the European Commission and one for domestic use. If the European classification is applied, it turns out that nature is doing very well. The EU requires each Member State to complete the SDF per area in accordance with established standards. The Netherlands delivered the SDF in 2004 and to the European Commission in 2018. These are filled in. What is filled out is still to be found, but the justification for this interpretation of this statement of the SDF is not public. And we'd just really like to see it. This provides a basis for the state of nature. In order to strengthen that only force, I would like to table a motion to that effect. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission assesses the compliance of Member States with the Habitats Directive on the basis of standard data forms for the areas (Standard Data Forms, abbreviated SDF);]] [[whereas the European Commission notes that Member States do not report uniformly on the basis of the SDF;]] [[noting that the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality does not disclose the basis for the creation of the SDF provided to the European Commission in 2004 and 2018, in contrast to other Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the basis for the establishment of this SDF as soon as possible, preferably immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u306	These data are very important for the PVV Group, and also for colleagues, I think. This at least reflects the situation of the Natura 2000 sites. That is why we also believe that these data should be on the table before we can judge this legislative proposal. After all, you want to know what you're going to decide. The starting point that I hear here is that colleagues assume that nature is bad. Well, let's see the basis of this SDF. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality reports to the European Commission using standard data forms for the areas (Standard Data Forms, abbreviated SDF) so that the European Commission can assess whether Member States comply with the Habitats Directive;]] [[noting that the basis for the creation of the SDF on the Dutch reporting in 2004 and 2018 is not public;]] [[considers that this does not give the Supreme Court sufficient information to arrive at a good and considered judgment;]] [[calls on the Court not to vote on this bill until the basis of the SDF, submitted to the European Commission in 2004 and 2018, has been provided by the Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u307	I still have a request for the President to put the two motions to the vote before we vote on the legislative proposal. Well, Mr. Chairman, just in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u308	It's at zero; that's right. We will consider your request. I call Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u309	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank everyone for the congratulations and also you for the thorough biography. Thank you for that. And, of course, I would also like to thank the Minister and her staff very much for answering all our questions, especially in the preliminary phase. Furthermore, I think it is clear, also from my contribution in the first term, how my group sees this law. I'd like to stick with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u310	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr Berkhout, for the good example of being brief. Bad news must come first: I recommend that my group vote against it. That won't surprise the Minister, but I always find it difficult to say. Here's to it. I do that for a number of reasons. The most important thing is that I am not convinced that this package of measures will stop the decline. In fact, I think that in some vulnerable natural areas the decline continues. It certainly helps, but not to the extent that you can say that we are not going to experience a new PAS-debacle in some cases. It will no longer be the case that it will remain completely silent, but the uncertainty remains. The second is that the whole package of measures fits within the current system of livestock farming in particular. My group has a higher ambition. Fortunately, that has more parties. Fortunately, elections are coming soon. Then I hope that both my party and other parties who want to win, and that it will be possible to achieve that greener ambition, but at the moment this bill is before us and more could have been done in the eyes of my group. That's too bad. But now I come to the second side of my second term, and that is indeed probably the last debate with the Minister, at least in her role as minister in this cabinet. I want to thank her and compliment her. For although my group is voting against, I do admire the way in which it has managed to get parties who think very differently about this subject behind a single legislative proposal and not just political parties, but also social parties. That's been a huge job and a handsome job. My compliments on that. That is true of nitrogen now, but that is actually true of your entire ministry. Before I go too far into that, I'm just quitting my second term, with only four minutes left on the clock. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u312	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u313	Mr. Chairman. Will I take the time of Mr Recourt and Mr Berkhout...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u314	Evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u315	Take it? No, I'm not. I shall, of course, begin by congratulating Mr Berkhout on his maiden speech. I look forward to exchanges of views in the future. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for the answers. I'm passing a few points the Minister has discussed with us. It has already indicated that there is an investigation into the critical deposition values and the resulting recovery measures. The Minister will indicate when that report will be available, I understood, and she will decide on that basis whether a further examination of the critical deposition values is needed. My question is when this report will be published and whether it can be sent to both Chambers. Can that report be sent to both chambers? With regard to the search areas, the Minister has promised that the provinces will respond to licence applications based on reality, even if the AERIUS maps are not yet in order. Also thank you for the commitment on how to deal with problems once they have been verified, and for the talks with the banks in this area. I think that's a good stunt for the farmers who are struggling with it. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that the agricultural agreement has now been invested in the ESC and that the earning model will also be part of it, as I understood from the reply. It's a bit of a hurry, because they'll start with the coalition agreement in a few weeks' time. If the ESC must then be read and so on; but well, that will undoubtedly be fine. Mr. Chairman. The most difficult problem that my group has struggled and struggled with is the somewhat longer term and the standards associated with it. I understand very well that the Minister has indicated: "Listen, I come with this law, this is it. This is what I'm going for, and this is what I stand for." I have to accept that, but I find the sturdier evaluation in 2028 very late, dangerous late. In the first term, the Minister indicated that it might be good to start earlier. I think this is very important on behalf of my group in the SGP. Just to be sure, I only put that in a motion. The: Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement (Wsn) Act includes environmental values for the reduction of nitrogen deposition, which means that in 2025, 2030 and 2035 respectively at least 40%, 50% and 74% of hectares with nitrogen-sensitive habitats in Natura 2000 sites were placed below critical deposition values;]] [[Considering that the environmental value for 2035 could potentially have a significant impact on, among other things, the agricultural sector, while there are no concrete plans for the period 2030 to 2035;]] [[whereas there is no plan of action to achieve the environmental value for 2035, so that its effects are not yet in the picture;]] [[calls on the Government not to wait until 2028 but to assess, within four years, the technical, financial and socio-economic consequences and the measures to be taken to achieve the proposed environmental value for 2035, on the basis, inter alia, of the impact of the Grant Scheme on resource sustainability, the agreements with the agricultural sector and other parties and the revenue model for emission reduction.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u316	I am, of course, very interested in the Minister's reaction to this motion so that I can hopefully give my group a positive opinion on the vote on this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u317	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Koffeman, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u318	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Well, one question is sticking around. I just asked the Minister if the PAS-report from Lelystad Airport was part of the 3,000 PAS-reports to be legalized from the nitrogen law that is before us today. According to the Minister, this was not the case and was merely an apolitical request for a nature permit for 10,000 flights, which would have no consequences for the legalisation of Lelystad Airport. However, we have understood from several pieces that this is different. For example, in the national assessment Lelystad Airport 2020, we read that "as a result of the collective legalisation of PAS notifications, including the notification of Lelystad Airport in 2016 and 2019, the total activity with 45,000 aircraft movements for which the PAS notification has been made will be legalised." And: "Because the national source measures are currently being developed, Lelystad Airport chooses to obtain, pending legalization, the first 10,000 aircraft movements with this licence application by means of external netting with part of the existing rights of Schiphol Airport." So we are already reading here a first step towards opening Lelystad and that was indeed controversially explained. Can the Minister explain that? I understand from the Minister that the application that was not made by Lelystad Airport would be completely separate from this. So that's not true. The most worrying thing is what we read in the planned decision on that application. The appropriate assessment also makes it clear that Schiphol transfers part of the excess nitrogen space at Schiphol Airport to Lelystad Airport. External salad. This was done by Schiphol for the application of the Lelystad Airport nature permit. In other words, Schiphol actually had a lot of nitrogen space left with which Lelystad could be operated entirely. Why has the government allowed it to be used again for aviation rather than for environmental improvement, especially since the State owns 70% of Schiphol N.V.? That brings me, Mr. Chairman, to the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman and Mr Kluit proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Birds and Habitats Directive requires that, in the case of overburdened Natura 2000 sites, 100% of the saved nitrogen reduction should benefit nature;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands 75% of the land area is more nitrogen than allowed, with disastrous consequences for animals, nature and the environment;]] [[It noted that 3,000 PAS notifications were made in response to Amendment No. 19 of Bishop c.s. legalised, including the PAS report from Lelystad Airport for 45,000 flight movements per year;]] [[Considering that the Lower House has declared a number of Kamerletters on the Lelystad Airport file controversial, including the reservation PAS 2014 and nitrogen calculations MER 2014 Lelystad Airport;]] [[Whereas the Government is taking irreversible decisions with the planned legalisation of Lelystad Airport;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the process of legalisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u319	Mr. Chairman. We also congratulate Mr Berkhout on his maiden speech. Unfortunately, I forgot that just in the first term, for which I apologize. This really deserves the attention it's supposed to get. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I had another question about buying up farms in relation to initiatives for elderly housing. The Minister did just respond to that. It wants to see whether there is a win-win situation and also points out, of course, that municipalities are autonomous. We think that answer is rather persistent. I would like to give this Minister and Minister Ollongren a little push with the next motion. The: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a major shortage of appropriate senior housing, including small-scale complexes that can occupy a central place in the social environment;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the approach to nitrogen reduction, part of the farms to be bought up will be able to live in a destination (the red-for-red scheme);]] [[Whereas, in the context of the housing market, some of these locations may meet the need for senior housing;]] [[Considering that for 2021 and 2022 an additional 20 million is available annually for the realisation of small-scale senior housing;]] [[Whereas small-scale initiatives deserve additional support in competition with professional developers;]] [[Whereas in Tweede Kamer a motion-Bisschop/Van Otterloo (35600, nr. 44) called on the government to encourage the provinces and municipalities to unlock and exploit all their existing knowledge of the red-for-red mode of operation in the re-use of land released by the voluntary buy-back of agricultural enterprises;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the importance and opportunities of regional initiatives for appropriate senior housing in these locations in the re-use of the land of purchased farms, together with municipalities and provinces, and to explicitly involve promoters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u320	Mr. Chairman. My group has, of course, assessed this bill in the light of its legal sustainability and feasibility. That test can be passed as far as our group is concerned. My group will also support the proposal. We can therefore continue to build the future of nature, of farmers, of builders, of citizens, and not least of start-ups and of young families who need to get grounded for a new home. My group would like to emphasise this once again: when we are talking about senior housing, we are actually talking about new opportunities for start-ups and young families. They need to get ground under their feet to build their own future. Finally, Mr President. After Marsman I also have a short text following the song "The village" by Wim Sonneveld. I'll skip the beginning. After a few lines, it says: This village I remember what it was like. The peasant children in the classroom A cart rattling on the pebbles The town hall with a pump for it A dirt road between choirs through The cattle, the farms And along my father's garden path I saw the tall trees standing I was a child and I didn't know any better Then it would never pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u321	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u322	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers she has given to our group's questions. Unfortunately, my thanks cannot alleviate the disappointment about the content and, in particular, the perspective of some of the answers. I understand her response to the injustice of the system from her perspective, but we are looking at it differently. What I missed in the answer was my question about the unnecessary complexity of the system. However, I would like to have a thoughtful answer from the Minister on that and not so much an official answer. So I would really like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. I've been talking about that gordian knot and I've been asking a number of detailed questions. A lot of these kinds of detail questions have been asked about a lot of threads from that gordian knot. I, too, have received an answer to one of those threads, and I would almost like to say: at the atomic level. But that is not the point, of course, because it is the bigger picture of the whole. I thought it was kind of a weird answer. She actually invited me to vote in favour of this law, because we would then be able to build again. The conclusion that I draw from this is that our group should actually choose between restoring the agricultural sector or being able to rebuild it. I'm having a little trouble with that. If I look at the content of this compromise law, because the opinions are far apart in this Chamber; that is one thing that is certain, then my conclusion is that there is a bit of building in this and a lot of restrictions on farming. We, as a group, object to this 'Nutrition Link', as I would almost call it. I would like to conclude my speech and then, in the same vein as Mr Van Rooijen, I will return to my poem by Marsman.... with what he wrote 80 years ago: The air is low. ♪ And the sun's gonna be slow ♪ Smothered in grey, multicoloured fumes. Then we're not doing it so crazy today, I'd like to give it to you anyway. All in all, I think I should advise my group to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u323	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I call Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u324	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive answers. The CDA welcomes the fact that the Minister has confirmed that it supports the importance of the international leading position of our agriculture. We also welcome the initiative to ask the ESC to make proposals for a so-called agricultural agreement. We still have a question on this: to what extent are the various sectors of agriculture themselves involved? The acceleration promised by the Minister and possible expansion of the second and third tranches of the purchase of peak chargers are also a good signal for the CDA. The same applies to the Minister's approach and commitment to engage with the provinces to ensure that the costs incurred by PAS detectors are reimbursed. We trust that the Minister will succeed. The good news is also that the habitats and the too small areas that are wrongly included in the AERIUS system will be removed with the October release. Our request to the Minister is to expressly ask the competent authority during the interim period to take the initiative when applying for permits to check whether or not these areas are wrongly involved. That initiative must therefore lie with the competent authority and not with the applicant. So that is actually the other way, because we think that an applicant cannot have a view of it himself. One more question about European legislation. Do we understand that the Minister is talking to the European Commission, but that there is still no agreement from Brussels? Could it be that the current termination arrangements have not yet been approved in the first tranche and that we are at risk there? If so, what impact could that have on the agreements currently with farmers who want to buy up their farms? Finally, one final question. Does the Minister ultimately have a power of perseverance with regard to the nitrogen deposition bank and regional nitrogen registration systems if nitrogen space is needed for the public interest? I ask this because, on the contrary, it is often larger projects that will have to involve nitrogen space from different provinces. All in all, we repeat the initial words of our contribution in the first term: this law ensures that steps are taken in a responsible manner in the area of nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature. Fortunately, the construction gets room again and the long period of uncertainty for PAS detectors and non-detectors comes to an end. We, as a group, are therefore in favour of this. We would like to join the various compliments to you for your commitment and work in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u326	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for this evening, for today and also for this period. I always call her "a practical idealist" and also "a balance artist." Mr. Chairman. You often react to each other. When Tanja Klip spoke this afternoon in her esteemed contribution, she said about blue grass: things are also going very well with nature; we are now choking on the blue grass. Well, maybe in your hometown. I don't really know it like that at all. But I looked it up once: we now have 30 acres of nature in blue grass laid down that's one medium-sized farm.................................................................................................................................................... So choke on it? I think it's a little overzealous. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the commitments on speeding up the buy-out of peak loads and on emission standardisation and a variant of BAT by 2025, combined with the commitment that you will come up with a checkable nitrogen balance. We also know what the difficulties are there. You have not yet discussed the possibility of converting EAGF grants to top up the conversion fund as effectively as possible, so that we can also continue to speed up and support the farmers who want to make that move. I asked at a very different point about nitrogen space that needs to be reserved. I mentioned a port authority for a particular project. If that project doesn't go through, you're gonna lose that space. If you reason from the nitrogen bank that's coming, wouldn't you be able to reserve that space for another project yourself? You have said that you will return to microdepositions and threshold values, but after the summer, because first the Hordijk report must be ready. Fine. What I keep finding difficult is provincial space versus national space. I think we agree that the energy transition and climate ambition should not be delayed by insufficient nitrogen space. You are right to say that this exemption applies, but then the game between the province and the country begins: where can I offer space or not? Then the nitrogen bank, how many rights you have in the end and how you distribute them are central. I would like to ask you for those criteria. What are you going to do or not do from that nitrogen bank? Share with us as well. Of the development space of 20 moles, 11 moles are already intended for legalization. So you actually have very little space about that right away. In short, that bank will have to be well-stocked in the future, in the years to come. It is, of course, also in the monitoring, but I am not entirely sure that we are creating enough room to further honour other economic activities than agriculture. I await your response to the question from the Animal Party about Lelystad, but it will be clear that we will give our group a positive opinion on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u327	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u328	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to follow the good example of the previous speakers: I too would like to thank the Minister very much for her passionate and expert response. That was indeed true, as others have said, not only for today, but actually for the last four years. So thank you very much for that and also for the pleasant contacts outside this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have five short points. I shall begin with three promises from the Minister. The VVD Group welcomes your commitment to clean up the AERIUS system. We understand that this speed cannot be increased, but that the new version will be ready in October and that paper and reality will then be agreed. This is important not only because of the fact that, of course, things have to be right when you use these systems, but also because this is the only way to gain support for the measures. The Minister has also indicated and made it clear that the pace of legalising PAS detectors and non-detectors will really be increased as much as possible. The third point, which we are very pleased with, is that the Minister has expressed support for the broad initiative mentioned by Mrs Kluit. This initiative was also new to us, but it is among others from Bouwend Nederland, LTO and Nature & Environment to arrive at a broad nitrogen agreement. I imagine something like the pension agreement, but on another subject. Two more references to our contribution in the first term. You have replied extensively to my questions on the NOVI. The study group on spatial planning of rural areas is therefore going to make suggestions for spatial choices. Their report will be ready in April. We understand very well that you cannot rule over your grave, but of course there are transfer files as well. I had asked for a commitment on this point. My question to you in the second term is what the maximum commitment you can make on that point is, because we really think that integrality - I have heard the other groups say it too - and in particular spatial integrity is incredibly essential in order for this dossier to be successful. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns Natura 2000 sites in relation to the European Commission. I said in my first term that we ourselves are fully aware of those Natura 2000 sites, and I am not going to talk about the blue-grained countries, because I feel that I myself am overpowered, and of course the European Commission is sticking to that. But there are also agreements that there is indeed room for manoeuvre. We understand very well that this is not nitrogen that comes from abroad, but there are climate developments. I have sometimes asked in previous contributions why we keep trying endlessly to get the water strawberry back in the Drentsche Aa, when you just know we can't. It is a fictional example, but what are the possibilities that the Minister in Brussels has in real demonstrated inability to achieve goals? Mr President, I shall conclude. This law begins with the structured distribution of the scarce nitrogen space that is available after the Council of State ruling. It's a first step. It is certainly not perfect, but much needed and much better than doing nothing for the time being to perfect business. For the group of the VVD, this law provides a good basis for achieving a forward-looking, leading and also internationally leading agriculture, and a realistic nature policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, I can leave right away, because I can totally agree with the last words Mrs Klip said. They've been taken from my heart. Then let me say it my own way. I would like to thank the Minister for her clarity, her time to answer all the answers as well as her convincing answers. I would also like to congratulate her, as many speakers have before me, on the way in which she is going to guide this law through this Chamber, as she has done by the House of Representatives. It's really an achievement. I can imagine that it would be a good time for the Minister personally as well. The ruling of the Council of State has been a very serious problem. Everything was stuck and all eyes were on the minister: what is she going to do? And now she comes here with a very good law, which gives us the opportunity to move on. And that brings me to the words that Mrs Klip said. I really think that's an achievement. We don't know how your future will be. We do know that we will continue with this law. This law is a compromise law. It is a framework law but it is also a starting signal, because after this law the work begins. That's what we're all gonna do. I would like to thank you very much. And you, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u331	Thank you, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the commitments. I do not know if you realise what you have promised in relation to the Limburg chemical industry, because we have 5 million tonnes of CO per year and we are second in the Netherlands. If we can resolve that with the commitment, we are naturally very satisfied today. Thank you also for the commitment to research into the Life Fund. Technically, that is worth a major investigation. Mr. Chairman. I must say that we have asked 1,000 questions today and I wondered during the debate what we had actually done in preparation. But I give the Minister a huge compliment on how she did here franc and freely answer the questions. I started with Toon Hermans this afternoon. He said "Minister," but I think he would say she became a "mini-star" today. In that sense, congratulations on your achievement. I felt that, in her reply, the Minister was dying for breath at some point. I have a bit of a problem with that myself today. I thought I noticed that in a number of speakers today. I've been on the Internet looking up what we've produced today from nitrogen: 5,000 liters a day. We're working from 9:00 a.m. this morning, and we're about 20, 30 people. So that means that of the kind of cube of 10 by 10, what you used to see in primary school as a liter, you can put 100,000 cubes in this building. I call on the chairman to check again whether there is enough oxygen here, because the nitrogen is building up here. Mr President, I have one more point. We are missing the connection between a number of dossiers, as I said in an interruption. I call on the Minister to shape this with the Cabinet in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u333	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u334	Mr. Chairman. We have followed the debate intensively today and increasingly we feel we have witnessed a complicated 6 billion-dollar variant of the previous nitrogen fiasco. Provinces are saddled with this very complex framework law with a so-called integrated approach. This integrated approach may work on a legal drawing table or the Ministry of Agriculture, but we do not think it will work in practice. That's our conclusion. We believe that the Minister should work vigorously to rationalise Natura 2000 sites to fewer sites, but more robust ones. This includes our group's assertive approach towards the EU. Our group does not understand why this cabinet so often resorts to hyper-complex, complex, almost unexecutable solutions rather than more structural, manageable, workable solutions on the main lines. Our group will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u335	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions? No? I can definitely suspend for a while. How long does the meeting want suspended? Ten minutes? Fine, then I suggest we suspend for ten minutes. We're suspending until 10:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u336	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked to me. I'm just gonna go through it systematically first. Then I'll go to the motions. Then there's the final word. First I go to Mrs Kluit, who asks if there was 30% skimming off from Schiphol airport to Lelystad for nature. Yeah, that's right. Are the PAS detectors and the peak chargers getting the fair message? The moment we see that companies are eligible for the predicate peak loader, you must of course enter into that conversation. I'm talking to the provinces about how you do that and how you handle it well. I think that's the way we should do it. People can also experience that as threatening. I understand that feeling very well. That's not the point. We really want to stand next to them, but we also want to see how things can be better and how they can move forward in the way they want to be. Then Mr Janssen. He asked a number of questions and drew conclusions. The programme will indeed come before the summer. He asked if the permits are in sight or if it's a first impression. That is a very first impression, because we still have some work to do around the permits. But I do think it's important that we start to get a better picture of that. He wants the list of additional measures to be drawn up. That's what we're doing. So that's exactly what we're doing. Monitoring: know which measure will have an effect at what time. When we send the programme, we indicate when certain measures should be taken and when we expect them to be effective. Then we can also see if we are on schedule with the realization. So that's what we're gonna map out. With regard to the cards, is the adaptation of the AERIUS cards also a legal basis for a permit? It is a matter of checking the actual situation. That's what the competent authority has to do. The actual situation is, of course, different from what is in AERIUS at the time. So the competent authority must also really apply the factual situation. The fact that we are not yet able to take this into account in AERIUS, so that it is not yet entirely sharp for the applicant for the licence, is without prejudice to the fact that the competent authority has to check it against the actual situation. That means that you also achieve the closure of that system. It has been said that the area plans do not come in time for elections. I'll try to push them not to come in election time. I do not have it all sharp when all these election times are well, fortunately, Mr Janssen, but I will also go a little deeper into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u338	Mr President, on the previous point. I was not so much concerned that it is a one-two between the applicant and the competent authority, but I am concerned that it should also be known for the environment when applying for a licence. So at the moment when the competent authority says to the applicant "we're also going to look at the new situation," it's not known to the environment, but it should be able to object to a permit. That environment doesn't know. If it could look in AERIUS to see if there was a question to ask out, it would receive the other information. That is what I am particularly concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u339	I understand that the competent authority itself must make public when a licence has been applied for and that this is also open to opposition and appeal. At that moment, of course, it becomes clear what the application is about and what it is about to be tested against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u340	If this is made clear not only to the applicant, but also to the environment. Let me put it this way: you should not have to dive very deep into a permit, but it should be clear, because it differs from what is publicly accessible at that time. And then I get to the point where the minister actually started when I arrived: the elections. I just turned that in because I know how it goes. A few months before an election, everything collapses and it's for the next one. But before you know it, you'll be nine months away. And then things are going very fast, because on 17 March there will be elections and that means that it should be ready by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u341	We're gonna keep up the pace. It is also in the interests of the provinces themselves that they hand over these land plans in good time. Because that also determines how we can facilitate them in order to realise the area plans. But thank you for the attention. Dan: the capacity of the NVWA should not be a limiting factor. I have said more generally that the capacity must of course be able to be used. We do know that there are a lot of challenges at NVWA, I'm just saying. That is precisely what we have a whole rethinking of. I will not turn it into a NVWA debate, but there is a whole rethink going on, among other things, to look at the tasks versus the resources they have and to see what steps need to be taken. We also often have risk-based supervision. I'm sure you will, because you can't have a supervisor in every place. But we need to look closely at the priorities and how we shape them. It's not like I can open a can of NVWA's right now to maintain more here. We'll do that risk-oriented, like we always have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u342	I'm not against risk-oriented in itself. That could be very good. When risk-oriented is limited, because you don't have enough people, when you actually have the risks in mind, you say to each other: there can be a lot of risks, but yes, we don't have people who can do anything with them. Then there's a problem. If you do not do something with it in time, it will also become a kind of waterbed within the NVWA. We've seen that at the Personal Data Authority. Before that, the House of Representatives suddenly opened a huge view of extra capacity. It's been playing at NVWA for a long time. If things go wrong there, things are going very badly, let me put it this way again on this subject. I would like to draw attention to that. We can't open a can right away, because that's gonna be tough. That's gonna take more care. But if lack of capacity is a permanent problem, I think that a solution must also be found somewhere. I will at least draw attention to this, because otherwise the problem will only shift.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u343	That is precisely why we asked Deloitte's report on the tasks and resources of the NVWA. Because I can keep asking them a lot, but if they just can't make it happen, that's not fair either. There are choices to be made. I will make that report known to the formation. This also deserves constant attention. And fast to the SMK. Yeah, we're gonna get this to the SMK soon, too. After a while the attention to the provinces, because I think that is so neat. Thanks for the support for the bill. I have a very interesting discussion with Mrs Faber about the SDF. I'm gonna explain it again. I also brought something for Mrs Faber. We give each other all kinds of pieces. Then I will also give something to Mrs Faber, because it describes in much more detail what the SDF looks like and how the SDF and Article 17 report relate to each other. The article 17 report deals with the national conservation status. The SDF provides insight into individual areas relative to each other. It concerns, for example, the area, the structure, the possibility of restoration and so on by area. So it gives some sort of description of an area. Those SDFs shall also be submitted to the European Commission. I have to admit to Mrs Faber that I didn't say that right. But they're also public. I can also share this proactively with the Chamber if I so wish. There's nothing mysterious about that. We're not holding anything back. I will give Mrs Faber the detailed explanation through the messenger so that she can further study what is in the SDFs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u344	Then I would like to ask whether this document, like Mrs Faber herself, can be annexed to the Acts. This is a public debate. So people need to be able to follow what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u345	Sure, the information is available to everyone. There's no mystery at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u346	And the same goes for Mrs Faber's piece? This can also be annexed to the Acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u347	Yes, but I would also like to receive the support. How did the Ministry get to the SDF? I want to know how the Ministry filled that out. 'Cause it's all about that foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u348	I don't think I have anything to hide. I'm just looking for the difference between what Mrs Faber is looking for and what I'm giving. The justification is simply a description of the factual situation. I find it a little difficult to describe how you support a factual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u349	For example, the SDF also determines the degree of conservation of a habitat type. It is useful, for example, if we get a basis for this. For example, if Germany reports on the SDF, there is also an accompanying letter showing how they came to do so. We would very much like to receive that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u350	That is, in my view, the Article 17 report on the state of conservation. Again, I will inform you about the websites on which to find all that information. I have nothing to hide here. I just don't quite get to what Mrs Faber is looking for and what I haven't given yet. But I'm gonna give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u351	Mrs Faber, you have a commitment now. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u352	I thank the Minister for that. It's, I think, very simple. I'm afraid the Minister's making it harder for himself than it is. An SDF has been submitted to the European Commission. That's based on something. And we just want to know what that's based on. I don't think that's very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u353	This is based on the factual description of the situation. But, yeah, what do you base a factual description on? I'm gonna try to give Mrs Faber what she's looking for. But I think she's making it more exciting than it is. Let me turn to the issue of the NEC Directive and the Gothenburg Protocol. I have also checked that with the colleagues from IenW. The Minister of IenW is talking about this. I asked if she would recognize the figures that Mrs Faber just passed on. What I have received back is that the Netherlands now complies with the NEC Directive and the Gothenburg Protocol. The duration was 2010 and 2019. Whether this is the case for 2020 or later depends on the figures for 2020. They are not yet known at IenW. So Mrs Faber has figures for 2020. We checked it again. IenW doesn't have those numbers. But I would suggest that she asks these questions to the Minister of IenW, because I am now a bit the postillon d'amour between IenW and Mrs Faber. I'd love to be, but this is the latest information I've received from IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u354	Just for my understanding: do I read your commitment to send something to Mrs Faber as a commitment to send a letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u355	Well, I find a letter a little exaggerated. I will tell you where she can find that information, and I will send it to you as well. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u356	It's gotta be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u357	It's just a description of what you can find where. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u358	As long as it is and remains a public exchange of views. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u359	I gave the state to the minister, but I think that was a state of the Planning Bureau for the Environment, by my mind. That's where the numbers come from. I understand that the Minister does not want to sit among them, but of course what happens with this bill is that you get a transfer of nitrogen compounds from one pillar, from ammonia, to nitrogen oxides. So, of course, you have something to do with it. You certainly have to deal with the European agreements that have been made that we, the Netherlands, should remain below these emission ceilings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u360	Then it venges that I'm not the one who's talking about those numbers. These figures are not recognised, at least not as such as the figures for 2020, because they are not yet known at IenW. Then it's a little complicated for me to say they are. Once again, I would really like to suggest that if Mrs Faber wants to know those figures, she will address her question to the Minister of IenW. I cannot answer anything other than what I have received there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u361	Through the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u362	Yes. I shall return to the motions tabled by Mrs Faber in a moment. Then Mr Berkhout. Thank you for your compliments. Too bad you're not going for the law. I thought we almost found each other on the nature aspect, but unfortunately we weren't allowed to. Thanks also to Mr Recourt for his words. I will come back to this in my final word in general. I'm sorry you don't go for the law. I see the balance you're making. I had hoped I could have convinced you, but I note that this is not the case. Nevertheless, I have also heard your words that you think that we should continue along this path. I very much endorse that. Mr Schalk asked when the result of the current investigation was to come. That comes in April/May. I don't know the exact date, but it will be very soon. I'll say I'll send it to both chambers. I've just gone into AERIUS and the search areas. We have talked about the problems and the banks, and also about the agricultural agreement. On the motions, I'll be right back. Thank you. Then Mr. Koffeman. I'm going to explain it exactly again, because I think we're getting a few things mixed up again. It's true that Lelystad has made a PAS report in the past. That PAS report is still out there, but in the meantime, Lelystad has applied for a permit from me. So not based on the PAS report, but there's just been a request for a permit like anyone can do to me, if I'm competent. I have to check that application for authorisation against legal criteria. There is no political balance in this, because I simply have to stick to the legal frameworks that stand in front of it. I have to assess whether the application is consistent with the legal frameworks. I did. On the basis of the legal frameworks, I have no choice but to make my decision known. The decision in this case is that, in my opinion, Lelystad meets that requirement. But that is open to appeal and appeal and everyone can express their opinion on that. That is what I will have to relate to in order to determine in the end whether or not it will be a definitive licence. We're in that process. Mr Koffeman said: yes, but it has been declared controversial. The political decision whether Lelystad should be opened has indeed been declared controversial. You can't argue a permit controversially, because that's not a political decision. That's just a decision that you have to check against the legal frameworks. There's no political weighting in that. That's what I told the House of Representatives. As a competent authority, you simply have to go through the steps that go with it. The question of whether Lelystad will be legalized is part of the larger stories about the legalisation of the PAS-reports. That's a bigger program, with all the PAS messages in it. That is not only the farmers, and that is not only Lelystad; there are also a number of quite different reports. It is not the case that, on the basis of this situation, I am now going to make all kinds of differences. But Lelystad is not legalized yet, as well as all other matters are not legalized, because we are still trying to legalize the PAS notifications. But it's part of the program. That's the situation. That is the difference between the PAS notifications and the licence application that has been made. I hope I have now made it clear that it is really two different tracks. I hear what Mr Koffeman is saying about this, but this is the actual situation at the moment. He also filed a motion. I'll give them an opinion in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u363	I have another practical question for the Minister. I hear legalization is happening or not in the context of the PAS report. The minister also said that Lelystad and Schiphol had broken down. Is there still a need for a PAS message?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u364	Ten thousand flights have been cancelled, so to speak. Lelystad would like to travel to 45,000 flights. That space wasn't included in the permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u365	Now there's a permit and there's nitrogen space. Does this mean those 10,000 flights can start tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u366	Authorisation is still in the process. I've made my decision known. That is not yet final; you can present all the views on it. I'm guessing there's gonna be some views. I still have to treat him. Only then will it be granted a final authorisation. But that is independent of the political decision whether or not Lelystad opens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u367	Looks like it's got a high-fat As a public authority, Schiphol gives its residual space nitrogen to Lelystad. The Minister says: yes, gut, it is a permit like all others and we simply have to assess it like all others; if there is enough nitrogen space, which happens to come from Schiphol, then we can only deal with it in that way. I think there are a lot of people in this country who think differently than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u368	But that again suggests that it's a political decision on my part. I'm really gonna object to that. As a competent authority, I have no other choice but to assess a permit on its own merits. That is also true if Mr Koffeman were to submit a permit to me for something that I think is all sorts of things. Then he has the legal protection that I simply have to check it against the frameworks that exist. This applies to him, to Lelystad, to Schiphol, and to everyone else, if I am the competent authority to take a decision. This also applies to Lelystad in this case. That is independent of the political question of what should happen to Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u369	However, I find it difficult to see that completely separate because the remaining space of Schiphol Airport is used to carry out a licence at Lelystad for 10,000 flights on the way to 45,000 flights. That can't be seen separately, can it? The Minister is now trying to separate that from each other, but that is closely linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u370	Schiphol must have that space. The space of Schiphol has been transferred to Lelystad. That means that it can no longer be used at Schiphol Airport. There is also a turn for nature. That 30% external salad has also gone to nature. So Schiphol has turned in space to get Lelystad licensed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u371	Mr. Koffeman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u372	According to European rules, you must allow the nitrogen space you have left to benefit nature, not Lelystad, but the nature that lies next to Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u373	I believe that we have just had this discussion in the context of the farmers of Nieuwkoop. That's what I call it for a second. Then I explained that external netting is a form of netting accepted by the judge and that is the framework within which we assess this. Otherwise, I couldn't have done it. I have not yet granted it definitively, but I have made my intention known.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u374	Maybe I should explain something to the minister about me first. I grew up next to Schiphol. So I've been through Schiphol for decades. That's why I find this so complicated. I know what the Minister's saying. You can go through a permit granting procedure neutrally; if you meet the conditions, it's okay. At the same time we are in the PAS-report with 35,000 flights on top of that. As part of the legalisation of the PAS detectors, we have said: we are going to make a generic gesture. We all do that with the farmers in mind and then 35,000 flights come along in the slipstream. The crazy thing is that this has an effect on farmers again, because they have less space in a moment and need to take additional steps. This is making people so goddamn happy! Sorry about this choice of words, Mr. Chairman. This is the mess and mess... Let me rephrase. This is how people experience this mess and messing around, because there is no place where they can say: but here we are making a clear decision, for this growth and this development. It all comes through crazy routes quickly in between. I see the Secretary of State shaking no. I understand that this is not the case for you, but there are parties here that have been getting angry people through Twitter all day, right about this, from the farmers' neighborhood and from the neighborhood. Is the Minister willing to look at that was also in my first term, or can you phase in that legalization? I'd rather have something else, but can you make that a priority? This is a file that's under a lot of pressure...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u375	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u376	My question is whether the Minister would like to move those flights that are in the PAS report to the rear until there is a new House of Representatives, which can re-assess them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u377	Thank you. May I ask you for qualifications such as 'cluttering' and'marchanging' when it comes to avoiding the work of the government in this Chamber? The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u378	To join in: I have to treat everyone as I deal with everyone. With a permit, I can't decide for myself whether it suits me or not. That's what we have a law for here. We've made agreements about how you deal with that. Maybe I like projects that Mrs Kluit thinks are very important. And yet I shall have to judge them. Good thing I'm adding, because that's how we got it done here in this country. As far as the PAS reports are concerned, I understand Mrs Kluit's question, which says: but we already have so many tasks. She's asking if I'm gonna legalize Lelystad through the PAS message. Am I gonna find that space before all the other cases are legalized? The reality is no. We're already running out of room to legalize business. I have just indicated what steps I am going to take with regard to the farmers. In addition, we have really asked: make it clear and show it. Then I still have to find the space to legalize those farmers. Lelystad said that this PAS call is taking us too long. And it is. That was precisely what could not be legalized equally. That's why they went on the licensing route with Schiphol. So that already indicates that the PAS message is not in the front. We didn't legalize that PAS report from Lelystad right away, otherwise they would never have gone on that licensing route. Isn't Lelystad going to be legalized in the PAS report? Well, I have to take all the PAS notifications that have been made, because we haven't made a distinction between one or the other in the past. They're not just farmers. It's not just Lelystad. There really are other companies that are also falling between shore and ship. But if she specifically asks me whether, before there is a new House of Representatives, I am going to legalize Lelystad's PAS-report, then the answer is no. 'Cause I don't have that space at all. There's no luxury, even if I'd like to, because we don't have that nitrogen space yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u379	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u380	Mr Van Rooijen has tabled a motion. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Dessing asked me for an unofficial response to the unnecessary complexity. Our people have insisted that they do not respond, because that is official. I think he means to ask if I can give a reflection on that. This law isn't the simplest thing I've ever made. I'll admit it right away. The subject is also incredibly difficult if you just have to explain it here or there, but basically it is a question of division. A number of your Members have said the same. It is a divisional issue about how to deal with the scarce nitrogen space that exists: how to weigh the interests there, how to ensure that everyone can get ahead of it and what choices to make when things have to be different. That is the essence of this law. Things will have to be different, because we only had a lot of space. We would not have had this difficult debate. We don't have that luxury. We're gonna have to go back to nitrogen. We're gonna have to make sure that nature improves. When that happens, we will have more room for all kinds of activities. So the best way to economic recovery is to restore nature. Perhaps that is an easy reflection of the complexity that is essentially contained in this bill. I'm not denying that. This is what it is essential to do. And yes, it is also a compromise law. I'll admit it right away. That's because you weigh different interests here. It is also, of course, a political debate that you are having with each other. Mrs Prins asks whether the various sectors are involved in the agricultural agreement. Yeah, I can promise. If we're going to remove those search areas, can the competent authority do that check? I'll check it out. I will ask the provinces, because in this case they are the competent authorities. Has the termination scheme been properly checked in Europe? We have two arrangements. One is the targeted buy-up. It's running now. I do not need to take a European test because it is not a general rule. It's focused money you bet on buying up businesses. You cannot continue to do so, because the European Commission will say that you are actually working on a national regulation. In addition, we are developing a national termination scheme that is open to many more parties. So you're not just gonna look at it, you're gonna look at parties that say, "I'm gonna end it, and maybe I'm gonna join the scheme." I have to test them at European level, in fact similar to the buying-in scheme for pig farming. It wasn't targeted. Anyone could sign up for that. So, at that point, you have to be European, and that is what we are doing. Then there is the power of perseverance for the common good. I do not want to make it any more difficult, bearing in mind Mr Dessing, but we have two nitrogen registration systems. One is the national nitrogen registration system. There is now the reduction in speed, and that is where we pay out the housing and the MIRT projects. In addition, we are setting up a regional nitrogen system. That is also for the provinces, so that they can put their own proceeds in that bank, in that registration system. It is also an initiative of the provinces, to be able to take on their own business. There are still agreements to be made on how to deal with what is in that register and how to divide it between public interest and more local/regional interest. That is still going on, and we need to make these agreements even more. We will. In the national system, I'm just the one who decides. Mr Pijlman asked whether the EAGF grants could also be used for switching. I'll check it out. We have, of course, already earmarked funds for this conversion fund: 175 million. That's already in this package. We are looking at whether more is needed, and I will look into the possibility of involving European funds. So I don't know if it's possible, but I'm willing to see if it's possible. The nitrogen space for a project: what happens if it doesn't happen? In the Regional Nitrogen Registration System you have to check whether you are making agreements about this and whether that is going to be returned to the system. We have yet to establish that with each other. That system is in the making. There are also a number of appointments to be made. This will be one of the topics. If you get it out of there, how long can you actually hold it? And what do you do when the project doesn't go through? When are you gonna have to give that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u381	A quick question. When will that be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u382	I hope to have that done in the autumn. We're already working on developing it, but having it all figured out is gonna be sometime in the fall. Exactly I don't know, but it's really after the summer; I know that. The provincial versus national space was a bit the same question as Mrs. Prince asked. So I just answered it. Mrs Klip has made a number of observations that were correct. I made that commitment. She asked for two more cases. Transfer file and spatial integrity. I will certainly take that, because that is what this is all about in the end. Indeed, we have already had that debate. It's not just nitrogen. It's water, it's soil, it's air, it's climate. It's a lot of business. We have also asked for this integrality in the study group, but I will certainly emphasise it for my successor, whenever he may take office. Impossible around Natura 2000. That is indeed about when climatologically it can be shown that whatever you do, you can no longer protect or maintain a kind of habitat. That's a ground that won't have to protect that species or habitat at the time. This must be demonstrated by the Commission, but climate change is one of the grounds for this, indeed. Mrs Huizinga had no further questions. Thank you for her words. Mr. Raven. I'm going to be very specific for a moment, because I'm going to be leading the Limburger that I've just arranged the whole energy transition and the climate transition in Limburg with my own hands! That's a little too much honor. We support the energy transition in Limburg. We know that there is a great deal to do and that there is a lot to do. I don't want to suggest that we're going to take care of that right away, but we are committed to making that transition possible. This is something that the colleague of EZK, in particular, is working on, but ultimately, as a cabinet, of course, we are doing so together. Show Hermans. I've been in Toon Hermans' museum in Sittard for a number of years. What I liked there was the humor. You linked that to the nitrous oxide that might have been excessive in Limburg. I also think that the lifestyle in general lies with the Limburgers. In the museum there was also a very nice example of how he could relate and be serious at the same time. I think that combination made him unique, and that is perhaps also unique for the Limburgers. Mr Otten has given further consideration. It is a pity that he cannot vote in favour of this law, but I would like to thank him very much for the debate. Mr President, I have a number of motions for resolutions. I'll be there soon. First the motion on letter L by Mrs Faber and others to provide the basis for the creation of "this SDF as soon as possible, preferably immediately." I have already promised that I will list everything I have and send it to the President of the Chamber in a letter. But I kind of feel like we're talking past each other about what we actually need. So if Mrs Faber thinks that is enough, then I have, in my view, also put forward the motion. I'm afraid all of a sudden she's gonna need all kinds of other things. I don't know what she's looking for. That's just my big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u383	I'm going to give Mrs Faber the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u384	Let's see what the minister has first. At what time can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u385	Will I just try to get that straight before the vote so that you can take note of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u386	As far as we're concerned, you can just have it passed on tomorrow or something. It will end up with our committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u387	So before the votes, I shall do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u388	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u389	Otherwise, I think I have already complied with the motion and I do not think I need to vote on it anymore. Anyway, that's up to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u390	That's up to the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u391	Yes. Okay. As far as her second motion, on letter M, is concerned, that is up to the Chamber, but I would not make the law dependent on the justification of an SDF, which I had a lot of discussion about with Mrs Faber in the sense of what we are talking about. I do not support her observation, so I advise against this motion. I do not think that statement is correct. Then there is Mr Schalk's motion. We have already discussed this quite extensively in the debate. He said: I think it is important that we do not wait until 2028, precisely in order to be able to offer certainty to 2035. He wants us to look earlier, to get some things straight in four years. I have already said in the debate that I think that is a good idea. In that sense, this motion supports policy. I've already promised, but I'd like to stress it again. I can make this commitment. I indicated earlier that I also consider this important. It is a justified point by Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u392	I had deliberately put it in a motion to be very precise, but this commitment actually makes the motion superfluous, I understand. That means I'll be able to rescind it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u393	'Cause we're gonna do it. Okay. We're gonna do it. That is the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u394	I hope the President heard it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u395	Yes, I can hear you for sure, because I hear everything. So you wish to withdraw your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u396	Yes, Mr President, because the Minister is coming up with a clear commitment. I would also like to thank her for that, and indeed for the debate, because I forgot to mention it just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u397	Since the Schalk motion has been withdrawn (, letter), it is no longer a matter of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u398	Then there is the motion by Mr Koffeman and Mrs Kluit. We just had that debate. It's about the procedure to stop legalization. I have no choice but to treat the PAS detectors equally. This is not only about the farmers or Lelystad but also about all other PAS detectors. The programme deals with all the PAS reports, with the farmers in mind as well, because they are in the most vulnerable situation at the moment. But this motion is just one step further, and that's why I'm not telling her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u399	My group still has one question. The Minister was quite right to say that no political decision has been taken and that is not going to happen, because it is controversial. But what I haven't quite made clear is: is there a political decision needed for those 10,000 flights? The licence has not yet been granted, but it seems to be being issued. So you can fly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u400	I'm gonna answer the question for a sec. Those 10,000 flights are separate from the political decision. It is therefore possible that Lelystad will soon have a valid licence but cannot be flown because the political decision has not been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u401	Just to be sure, therefore, that political decision is necessary to fly at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u402	Yes. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen's motion with letter O. This refers to the Bishop/Van Otterloo motion (35600, no. 44) on red for red and asks that, when re-use of the land of purchased farms together with municipalities and provinces, the importance and opportunities of these regional initiatives for appropriate senior housing at these locations be examined, and that the initiators be expressly involved. We've already had a little debate about winning-win. This is actually a further interpretation of that win-win. We also think it is important to give older people appropriate accommodation, which this motion calls for. I can therefore give this motion judgment Chamber. I think that is what we arrived at the end of this debate. I would like to thank your Chamber very much for the substantive debate I have had here. We didn't always agree, even today: sometimes we did, sometimes we didn't. But I don't know if it's my last time either. It's up to you whether I can come through here again or not. But in any case, it has always been an incredible pleasure for me to be here, precisely because we were able to have a respectful and contentious debate. It's a big topic we've been talking about today, with possibly a big impact on people. I feel that, no matter how we look at this law, we have also made that weighting very substantial. I think that is also what people and companies can expect from us. It's been a long journey. Thank you for that. Maybe I'm gonna miss you guys a little bit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u403	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-02-eerstekamer-10.u404	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, the motions with letters L and M proposed by the author, Mrs Faber, to be put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. Then leave has been granted for that. I also note that Mr Schalk's motion has been withdrawn by letter N. That's right; of which I'm aware. Because the poetic bar is high today, I like to join and close with an appropriate poem by Kees Stip. Of course, you all know him as the king of the light fresh. That poem is called On Three Pinches: Three pinkies went with their tired From Laren sometimes to Suren. Many farmers were there at Laren who were nice to the pinkies and were therefore to Surgeon Those pinkies are nice to the peasants. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and staff who have made this meeting possible, and I thank the Minister and wish you all well at home.
