ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u1	Where we have been filling up with two-minute debates all day, we are now actually going to deal with the Bill Annual Report and Final Act of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Animal Health Fund (35830-XIV).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u2	The first speaker is Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u3	Mr. Chairman. I see 25 minutes on the clock, so it's going to be a 25-minute debate. Mr. Chairman. Stand still sometimes to move forward. Today I would like to dwell on the past year, the beginning of the turbulent 1920s, the decisive decade when it comes to animals, nature and the environment. I look back at the year in which we had to solve a crisis, the biggest crisis that the Prime Minister had experienced in his career, namely the nitrogen crisis. But the nitrogen problem, which is actually a natural crisis, was not solved. It got out of the picture because of the corona crisis. In the meantime, biodiversity is deteriorating with a risk to our well-being and prosperity. Dutch nature has deteriorated in such a way that we are not only breaking the law, but are also on the verge of the irreparable collapse of ecosystems. These are ecosystems that we all depend on. The point on which I would like to call the Minister to account is that the year 2020, which we are looking back at today, was a wasted year for the nitrogen crisis. We don't have that time at all. Real choices to keep nature alive didn't make the Minister of LNV. She came up with a nitrogen law that was nothing more than a political compromise. Everyone, even the CDA, now acknowledges that this law is far from doing enough to counteract the deterioration of nature. It's hard to believe the Minister didn't already know that. Even top officials made it clear that the Minister's law does not go far enough. I would like to know from the Minister whether these officials pointed out to her at the time that the nitrogen law does not do what is necessary for nature and what is legally necessary. For the minister defended her law in which she kept farmers in the grip between the high debt and the low prices. It presents the taxpayer with the bill that increases and increases every day when the decline in the number of animals in livestock farming is postponed. By pushing forward necessary measures for decades and opting for short-term economic interests, nature and climate goals have become so far out of the picture that ever more drastic interventions are needed to achieve them, until you reach a point that even the Planning Office for the Environment says: livestock farming is no longer sustainable in three provinces. That's a 100% shrinkage. With its nitrogen law, the Minister remained largely committed to technical lacunatics in which farmers are saddled with high debts and a large part of them are chased into bankruptcy. The use of non-binding measures and technological laps has meant that the number of farms in the Netherlands has been halved since 2001, while the number of animals in the livestock sector has remained virtually unchanged. That's a trick. We saw again yesterday what frustration that leads to. The parties who do not want to reduce the number of animals in livestock farming are responsible for a reduction in the number of farmers, so is the Minister. Fortunately, the PBL has been very clear about this in the new report this week: do not bet on expensive, technical stables if you know that you have to buy them out later. And be honest. Why didn't the minister tell the fair story? Of course, I am also looking at the role of the Chamber, which has adopted this objectionable law. Where was the Minister of Nature in 2020? While the urgency of the climate crisis, the loss of nature and biodiversity, the mess in nitrogen policy, the manure fraud and the seriousness of the organised suffering caused by animals in livestock farming, calls for swift and far-reaching action, 2020 turned out to be a year behind the facts and put out fires. That's not just in the figuratively sense. In 2020, more than 100,000 animals were killed during barn fires. They burned alive or suffocated in the smoke. Year in, year out, this is a recurring fact and we are constantly shocked by horrible images of stables where the flames break through the roof, while we know that in the stables many thousands of animals are kept with no possibility of escape. The Minister writes in her annual report that she wanted to prevent barn fires by including fire safety as a condition for subsidies for new stables. Can the Minister explain why she has done nothing to take fire safety measures, or rather to set fire safety standards to protect these animals? Sitting still isn't progress. How does the Minister himself look back on the lack of protection under her regime, now that we also know from the report of the Research Council on Safety that fire safety for animals in livestock farming has only decreased, with many casualties as a result? Why? Because the Cabinet felt it cost too much money to better protect these animals. We therefore call on the Minister to quickly give effect to the legal capacity that has now been given by the Chamber to effectively protect animals from barn fires. Mr. Chairman. Economic interests prevailed over those of animals, but also over the importance of public health. After last year's corona pandemic had broken out and many people's lives changed dramatically or even stopped, one would expect that the cabinet would be more cautious in dealing with zoonoses. Especially now that the cabinet is being advised by virologists who warn that the Netherlands is the most cattle-proof country in the world a ticking time bomb for the spread of animal diseases to humans. The report of the expert group zoonoses, published this week, also states that the Netherlands is a potential hotspot for zoonoses outbreaks. But when the Netherlands had the scoop that corona broke out in livestock farming, in a mink farm, the minister responded to his janko whistles. Where in Denmark direct intervention was taken when it appeared that the mink breeding was a breeding ground for the virus mutations, Dutch mink breeders were allowed to just let the animals grow, to pull the skin over their ears in November to make a coat out of it. Unless companies got infected with the corona virus. And that's what happened. At 70 mink farms, more than half the number of farms, all mink were gassed early: nearly 3 million animals. Recently it appeared that no fewer than 42 of these companies also infected people with a corona variant that was created by mutations in the mink breeding. People also appear to have been infected with the mink variant of the virus outside the mink breeding. People who have nothing to do with this sector, but who have become sick of it. Something that has been swept away over the past year, because this risk would be virtually nil. How does the Minister look back on this? Does she recognise that there has been a considerable risk of waiting so long to intervene? Was this worth it, according to the Minister? Mr. Chairman. The mink farming and mink breeding ended happily. A morally reprehensible sector which, moreover, should not have existed for a day without corona as far as the Animal Party is concerned. However, nerts were not the only animals that were gassed in 2020 due to zoonoses at the same time. Avian flu was also found again in poultry farming last year. As a result, more than 800,000 chickens, ducks and turkeys have been gassed. The lock-up duty followed. The lockdown for hundreds of millions of animals, which cannot keep a distance of 1.5 metres, was finally lifted this week after eight and a half months. However, the prospect is not rosy. If you do what you always did, you get what you always got. The approach has been the same for years. We let it happen, and if it goes wrong, we gas all the animals in the entire stable plus the animals in the nearby stables. This autumn, cracks in stables will be re-sealed with purfoam, gas installations will be installed, and the stables will be gassed with gas when the animals are disposed of by thousands at the same time. Because that is how it is, so that the stables can be filled with joy again with thousands of young animals who are at the same risk again. The virus has now jumped from birds to foxes and people can also get sick from certain avian flu viruses. They could even die from it. Virologists warn us that it is a matter of time until the avian flu virus mutates so much that it is contagious not only from animal to human, but also from human to human. And then, Mr. Chairman? Why does the cabinet only listen to the experts when we are in the midst of a health crisis? Why does the Minister not take the warnings to heart and take no precautions, such as reducing the number of animals in poultry farming, the number of animals per farm and the number of animals and holdings in an area? This also advises the expert group zoonoses. Reducing the number of poultry farms in wetlands is also an advice of the expert group. Or a stop on the export of hatching eggs, which also keeps the poultry industry in infamous avian flu lands in its legs. Or the closure of infected chicken stables, to prevent the emergence of new infections that are dangerous to humans. The Minister keeps saying that public health is first and foremost, but why do we not see that in the government's actions? Why doesn't the Minister close the duck farms that are 23 times more likely to get bird flu than stables with chickens? In the field of goat farming, too, there has been a standstill in the last year. After Q fever, RIVM speaks of a possible new zoonoses in goat farming. For ten years, studies have shown that residents living within a 2 km radius around a goat farm are at greater risk of pneumonia. The GGD warns that lifting provincial goat stops would be medically unacceptable. The cabinet still does nothing to limit the number of goats in goat farming. And it does nothing to keep the provincial goat stops. In which dictionary is that covered by the precautionary principle? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of precautions... There was one that the minister did last year. After years of warm summers, we count tens of thousands of animals each year dying from the heat. In the extremely hot summer of 2019, at least 163.000 animals died from heat. Exact numbers aren't even recorded. Last year another extremely hot summer followed. This year will be no different. I call on the Minister to keep these figures up to date and to make them public. For example, Rendac's figures, which make extra trips every summer to pick up all the animals that died in the stables. Animals in the Netherlands are also transported to slaughterhouses during heat waves in cattle cars without ventilation and in which the temperature quickly rises extremely high. If it's almost 35 degrees outside, it could be 40 to 45 degrees in a truck. Animals can't lose their heat. They barely have room to move or to lie down at all. They're gonna breathe and dry out. A large number of animals die of misery. Every year, the Minister promises to take additional measures to prevent animal suffering during heat waves. Then sector plans will be reviewed and sometimes they will be tightened up. Then there are some unfortunate proposals, such as the suggestion that animals should be transported to the slaughterhouse earlier, or that they should be given less food. These are examples of measures to prevent heat stress in the pigs sector's heat protocol, which the Court of Auditors spoke out against last year. In the meantime, it is clear that no-binding agreements do not work properly. This was also concluded recently by the Animal Protection and Eyes on Animals. Only one measure was not voluntary but legal. After, in particular, the poultry sector did not want to comply with a non-binding agreement not to transport animals at a temperature above 35 degrees Celsius, the Minister made this legal last year. That was a very important step. But the transport of chickens for fattening in trucks at an outdoor temperature of 34 degrees is still dull misery, especially since these transports take place without mechanical ventilation or air conditioning, which means that the temperature in the trucks is 5 degrees to even 10 degrees higher. Chicks, because they are bred on their heavy weight, suffer from heat stress more quickly and they also produce more heat because of their metabolism. This allows these animals to experience heat stress at an external temperature of 20 degrees. The temperature limit of 35 degrees set by the Minister is therefore far and far too high. This also applies to other species, such as pigs. They can't afford to lose their heat either. They cool by nature by rolling in the mud and thus, via evaporation, losing their heat. Can't do that in a truck. And so the animals can't lose their warmth until it makes them miserable. It is not for nothing that the Minister is committed in Europe to putting an end to unventilated long-distance animal transport at outside temperatures of 30 degrees or more. So that's 30 degrees. But why should we maintain a temperature of up to 35 degrees in the Netherlands? I would ask the Minister not only to argue in Europe for a maximum temperature of 30 degrees, but also to start with it in the Netherlands, with all animal transports. I shall table a motion for this in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The animals that arrive alive at the slaughterhouse are then waiting for a long time in hot trucks. Or the trucks have to keep going in circles until it's their turn. Lower the slaughter rate in slaughterhouses so that fewer animals need to be landed. Is the Minister prepared to set a maximum waiting period of 15 minutes? The quantity of animals loaded into trucks on hot days is also subject to only non-binding directives, which are inadequate for a number of animal transports. Ensure a legal obligation to reduce the number of animals that may be transported by truck. Ensure a structurally lower housing density in the months in which the chance of it getting hot is very high. Then you prevent animals from getting into squirt-hot stables or being transported into blood-hot trucks to the slaughterhouse. Begin to stop the sector from keeping more animals in those bloody hot days than usual. Why didn't the Minister choose these measures last year? I shall also table a motion for this. Now that summer is waiting for us, I, too, am afraid to look forward to all the misery that this brings to the animals. Mr. Chairman. Then the pig's rights. That is a word, of which my heart begins to beat faster. How nice it would be if pigs had rights. But in this case, pig rights are human rights. How many pigs may be bred or killed by a pig farmer is laid down in a quantity of pig rights. Because we keep too many pigs in the Netherlands, we have a nitrogen problem, there is a nuisance and there are health risks. Mr. Chairman. What can you do? Then you can buy up pig rights as a government to reduce the number of pigs in livestock farming. And that happened, in the regions of South and East, where there is most smell, paid with tax money and a big loan. Then the minister had pig rights in her stomach, because in order to repay the loan, to the Rabobank in this case, the pig rights had to be sold in other regions, but almost no one wanted to buy them. So what did the minister do? Instead of choosing nature and removing rights from the market, the minister chose Rabobank's interests. She gave them permission to resell the pig rights to exactly the same regions, South and East regions, whose rights had just been redeemed. And she sold them at a discount. That's a weird story. We just bought the rights with taxpayers' money, and it still stinks. That's weird, but it gets worse. The Minister had another mission to buy up pig rights. 'Cause, yeah, it still smelled. The climate targets were not met, nor were the nitrogen targets. So the minister said we're going to buy up pig rights in the regions of South and East. There we asked the Minister: you're not going to sell the rights to the same region, are you? No, that was not the case, so the Chamber was informed. But the General Court found that none of that was true. Why hasn't the Minister been honest about this? And why did the Minister choose Rabobank's interests instead of the interests of nature, climate and nitrogen, for which she is responsible? What does the Minister himself think about the fact that this ill-thought-out policy has allowed farmers to expand cheaply, while taxpayers have double-crossed it? And can the Minister exclude that pig farmers who are currently being bought out can still resell some of their rights? Mr. Chairman. I'd also like to talk about the goats' kids. Boxes are born as by-product, as residual waste from a dairy goat farming. A number of years ago, in 2017, Eyes on Animals revealed that the mortality of goats in goat farms was alarmingly high. The sector was allowed to make an improvement plan, but real improvement remained, and last year corona caused even more misery for the goats. It's time to intervene now. We will put to the vote this evening an detained motion calling on the government itself to come up with a plan to prevent disease and mortality among the goats. Mr. Chairman. What the Minister really lacks is the implementation of the Party for Animals' motion adopted last year to stop shooting the hare and rabbit for fun. The House of Representatives asked for a hunting stop. It is about pleasure hunting, to understand it and the Minister comes with an investigation into the state of conservation. Did the Chamber ask you to do this? No. And is that knowledge already available? Yes. Then what is the Minister waiting for? The hare and rabbit are not doing well, partly because of how we set up our country, and mainly because of the intensive agriculture. Since last year these two species have been included on the Red List of endangered species, as populations have decreased by 60% to 70% since 1950. That's worrying, and so did the Minister. Nevertheless, last year hunters could continue to hunt the hare and rabbit for fun, so without reasonable purpose. The rabbit hunt can now, this summer, take place again. Why should we put further pressure on species that we know are in bad shape by using them as a target for the hunters? And why doesn't the Minister simply carry out the motion which clearly instructs the hare and rabbit to be removed from the list of species that are free to hunt? Does the Minister share the view that killing animals for pleasure is not justified when there is no need to? Does the Minister share the view that the killing of animals deviates without purpose or necessity from the precautionary principle when these species are poor and deviates from the legally recognised intrinsic value of animals? More people share the view that animals should not be shot for pleasure. Almost 45,000 people signed this year's petition from the Animal Protection Department to stop hunting for pleasure, such as hunting the hare and rabbit. Further research into the state of conservation is fine with the Party for Animals, but that can and must run in parallel with the implementation of an adopted motion. Can the Minister therefore promise that she will carry out the motion immediately before these animals are once again destroyed? Is it necessary to remind the Minister that a wish, an assignment, of the House of Representatives should be taken seriously? Finally, Mr President, I will end with more hunting, the Oostvaardersplassen. That's a shooting tent where defenceless healthy animals are shot in bushes, some newly born and some even pregnant. Konikhorden stand in the burning sun for weeks waiting for them to be taken to the slaughterhouse and the hunting of the heckrunderen has also been opened. What about the animals? They can't go anywhere. If I were born in 1983 and the Animal Party existed then, we would have voted against the Oostvaardersplassen plan. But now that the animals are there, we need to get the animals the peace, the space and the shelter they need. Gateways away from the Oostvaardersplassen! It almost worked, if it wasn't for former Secretary of State Bleker pulling a line and leaving the animals behind. And we all know what a mess that has become and what a mess he has made of nature policy at all. Meanwhile, the Minister has also taken her hands off the file, now that the policy responsibility for the well-being of the large graziers in the Oostvaardersplassen has been transferred to the province of Flevoland. And, Mr President, this cannot continue! Flevoland, my own province, has repeatedly proven not to be able to cope with this great responsibility. Is the Minister prepared to evaluate the agreement with the province of Flevoland and inform the Chamber about it? I will table a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. Progress you book when every mistake is a new one. Let's learn from the mistakes made so they don't be made over and over again. We have seen this week that at least the CDA is trying to do so. So, Mr President, I am hopeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u4	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought Mr. De Groot was gonna make it through, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u6	He's given up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u7	Yes. I wanted to say something, but let's not do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u8	The night's a long time. We'll have 200 more motions to vote on later. There's still time to say goodbye to this house. We're getting a farewell speech from the chairman. So, Mr. Boswijk, burn loose!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u9	Well, I guess I'll cut it down a little bit. Mr. Chairman. If anything leads to mistrust in the agricultural sector, it is mainly the government itself and that farmers are no longer able to rely on the government and sometimes do not have the courage to count on it. Yesterday at the Malieveld there was a young farmer from Brabant who told me he was about to buy a machine to start using fewer plant protection products. That was a very big decision of over 3.5 tonnes. And we're talking about a farm boy in his mid-20s. He actually said very strikingly to me: no one can guarantee me that I will be able to use this machine in three weeks. Mr. Chairman. Take Marije Klever. After joining me as an agricultural spokesperson, that was the first farmer I went to internship with. It has built a new stable with low-emission floors, a floor currently under fire. Who's gonna hold onto these young farmers anymore? Stable and long-term policies can be quite ambitious as far as the CDA is concerned. It is therefore also one of the key points in the vision that we have presented over the past week. When I handed this vision over to that same Marije Klever and to Roy Meijer, the chairman of the DAJK, they again called for certainty. If there is such certainty, they would very much like to be part of the challenges we face. But we also need to provide security to the many interim workers who currently do not know what they are up to, because, for example, they cannot get funding to make their business more sustainable. And that is something we all want very much. Mr. Chairman. This week we have presented our agricultural vision, and I have indicated that in recent years the agricultural debate has been polarised at an accelerated rate. Visions are burned down unread and many remain in their own trenches, in their own equal. As a result, we are doing nothing, and yet maintaining the status quo will not help us any further. That is not in the interests of nature and the climate, but certainly not in the interests of the farmer. If we do nothing to improve the prospects for farmers, half the farmers will have stopped in ten to fifteen years' time. These are not easy choices to make, but right now we need to show leadership and also that clarity. Mr. Chairman. The agricultural sector faces considerable challenges. Firstly, the right of the farmers to exist is under pressure. Farmers are actually trapped in a non-future production system and in a complex regulatory system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u10	Mrs Bromet, I see you at the interrupting microphone, but I do not have you on the list of participants in this debate. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u11	Yes, but, Mr President, if you give up zero minutes of speaking time, I think you're entitled to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u12	I don't have you here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u13	Oh, I'm not there at all? Well, that's too bad, because I had a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u14	You always have good questions! You can put it to me like this, off the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u15	I'm sorry. Mr. Boswijk, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u16	The motto has always been: more, more, more, triggered by governments, banks, exporters and supermarkets. In agriculture, normal market forces are lacking. A shortage is not an option socially; it would mean hunger. But this system is at the expense of farmers' right to exist. Only thanks to their motivations and their motivation, despite all the negativity and despite all the setbacks they are constantly being processed, food supply has so far been maintained. Secondly, we are facing major challenges in terms of climate and environment, and in some places in our country soil quality and water quality are under pressure. Thirdly, space in the outer area is also under pressure. With 17 million people on a small piece of earth, it's usurping with scarce space. Mr. Chairman. We will have to look for a new balance, one that does justice to the value of the agricultural sector and to the capacity of the earth. Now agriculture and nature are often faced with each other. Our spot on the horizon is an agriculture that thrives as innovative and clean top technology in the hands of our stewards. Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain the term "rentmasters." As far as we are concerned, the performance of stewards consists of a balanced mix of three elements. First of all, a steward must act with common sense. He uses his sense of farming every day. He weighs everything soberly and does not get carried away in the delusion of the day and keeps his eye on the long term. Secondly, the steward has historical awareness. He knows that he does not live in a vacuum and has a connection with the history, the people, the nature and the land he has on loan. Third, the steward has empathy with the other. He's got a heart for the one he meets on his way and he's having a hard time. He takes into account the capacity of people and their environment. That is real sustainability. After all, truly sustainable means: intertwined with the human environment, responding to its possibilities and taking into account its limitations. Mr. Chairman. From this perspective of stewardship, we advocate the drive and strengthening of three hopeful renewal movements, from regulatory to breathing space, from market value to social value, from soil depletion to soil health. Today I want to highlight the second aspect: from market value to social value. We want us not only to look at the direct added value of the agricultural sector to our economy, which is a big business, but also to take into account the indirect social effects, positive and negative. Think of the value the agricultural sector has in preserving our cultural landscape, our food security and the production of renewable energy, as well as the loss of soil quality, biodiversity and emissions. We want to set up the future of agriculture in such a way that the agricultural sector's contribution to the common good is given a place in the farmer's business model. If farmers provide public services, they must also be rewarded. Examples include nature and landscape management, water treatment, carbon capture and other ecosystem services. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, I would like to make two concrete proposals. First, the sharp distinction between agricultural land and natural land. In the vicinity of nature reserves in particular, it seems that buffers are needed between nature and agriculture, where more and more nature-inclusive farming can be carried out. Now it is crazy that we only know two options in the Netherlands, which know their own laws and regulations, namely agricultural land and natural land. In fact, we should find a kind of intermediate variant, in which, for example, more animals can be kept than now on natural soil, but less than on agricultural land. We call this variant "landscape land." In this way, the right of existence for farmers can be properly implemented in the buffer zones between nature and agriculture. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. A second proposal concerns the earning model of the natural soil. What I often hear is that large-scale organisations receive compensation from governments for the management of natural land. Then they sold the land to a farmer. The farmer then does the actual management. That farmer also pays the landlording organisation rent money. This actually sounds kind of special. The land-use organisation receives twice money and the farmer pays money to carry out management. As with the supermarket, the role of a farmer in relation to land-based organisations is complicated. After all, they are also dependent. I would therefore like the Minister to explore the sustainability of this system and whether it is possible to ensure that the management funds received by the land-based organisations can be passed on to those who actually manage it. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Finally, Mr President. The PBL report concluded last week that we had already drawn in written questions. The CDA thinks nature is extremely important. We must also do much more about this than we have done, but we must also recognise that creation is much more ingenious and that the quality of nature cannot be measured on the basis of one indicator, the KDW. There are several facets that affect the quality of nature: the composition of the soil, the state of groundwater, the quality of water, the quality of air, but also, for example, the effects of climate change. We want policies that succeed, that are effective and that really contribute to more and better nature. That is why we want to come up with a proposal not to go blind to the nitrogen targets, but to keep the broad nature objectives and the future of agriculture in mind. Because if we only stare blindly at the nitrogen targets, we will soon have an empty landscape and not the nature quality that we had in mind. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u17	Thank you to Mr Boswijk. I call Mrs Van der Plas, BBB. Let's see if the table of the speaker chair is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u18	It looks good, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u19	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This last day before the recess, which does not mean holiday, at least not for me, I also look back at the past period. The final law before us gives us a glimpse into that. For example, we see that a number of subsidy schemes have not been fully used. For example, the subsidy amount for the Source-based Approach Scheme has not been fully spent. The subsidy scheme also proved less successful than hoped, in order to reduce odour and no nitrogen. Moreover, the subsidy scheme for the restructuring of pig farms was devised by the sector itself and was not imposed by any Ministry. The pig farmers had already warned: not all applicants would use it. But who listens to the professionals, the farmers in this case? They don't know anything about it, we seem to think around here. We are looking at experts, such as recent human health experts, who are also going to judge animal health and the so-called forced shrinkage of livestock. That's fine, but then we're gonna have vets look into intensive animal husbandry and then we're gonna have vets advise on the shrinkage of the human population. Everyone would think that was weird. Well, the other way around, it's just as weird. But it is signs that there is a gap between what we are thinking of here and what farmers and gardeners need. That rift became painfully clear on the Malieveld yesterday. Politicians claim they feel the pain of the farmer. There is no MP here, no minister, no Secretary of State or any official who feels the pain of farmers. I can't feel that pain either. I can listen to the stories about the pain they're feeling and trying to express that pain here. And even though you often go milking on Friday mornings on the farm and even though you visit 100 farmers in 100 days I think that's a really great performance with the busy Chamberwork in The Hague, because that means one farmer a day that doesn't make you a farmer. That doesn't make you feel the pain of being accused of everything that doesn't go well in the Netherlands for years, and that doesn't make you feel the pain of being put away as a fund-raiser, as an animal executioner, as a poisoner and as an environmental criminal, while you are busy providing people with that first need for life: food. That you can't even get your income out of that, because the prices have been too low for years. The supermarkets that have been giving a perverse stimulus to food and citizens every day for 20 years: you don't have to pay much for food, food is cheap. Supermarkets selling fair trade products for which farmers in Africa and Asia get a fair price, fair trade. And with our own farmers, failure trade is done. It saves one letter, but it's a world of difference. Nor do we feel the pain of the towering fines here in the Chamber if you have accidentally mischecked or filled in a wrong manure code in the huge pile of records. We do not feel the pain of paying the account of the farm consultant who forgot to press a button which makes the farmer loses the income allowance, with the result that the same farmer has no idea how to live that year. The income bonus is, however sad it sounds, necessary for many farmers to make ends meet. Yeah, but all the farmers are millionaires. No, farmers aren't all millionaires. Capital is often in their soil and stones, but we all know you can't eat soil and stones. We need to see what a farmer's disposable income is. Yesterday at the Malieveld I spoke to two farmers who have to live from €1,200 to €1,300 in the month. They work 80 hours a week. A third of farmers even live below the poverty line and then I hear people talking about feeling pain, earning power and doing side jobs in landscape management. That is the management they should be paid for with subsidies and then these farmers depend on the government for how much they get for that landscape management and whether that amount will always remain that way. In the meantime, some parties are calling for farmers to only want subsidies, that they are on the subsidy infusion. You'll only work 80 hours a week, earn too little money from it and then learn that you can manage the landscape subsidised. Like that's a disgrace. If the local café boss has to maintain the square for this, do we expect him to pay for that maintenance himself? Mr. Chairman. I can also understand the fact that there is a commitment to landscape management, because there are many millions of grants to be paid. That happens, but especially by NGOs. They know how to find the way to the subsidy jars very well. Grant for farmers is a dirty word, while subsidies allow them to make affordable food for us. Subsidies for NGOs are never under discussion. I'll question that. Every year, these organisations receive tens of millions of euros in donations from, for example, the Postal Code lottery, which sometimes seems to be the 151st MP in sponsoring the green lobby that some political parties then have children at home, parties implementing the green agenda of the same NGOs. Mind you, since 1990 natural, environmental and animal organisations have received EUR 1 billion from the Postal Code lottery alone. And what exactly are these landscape managers doing? Are we gonna get our money's worth? Because according to them, things seem to be getting worse with nature. Is that why they point so hard at the farmers and therefore conceal their own failures? Mr President, this week, for example, I learned the word 'crap-cake trees'. The word indicates the random planting of trees that do not belong at all in the place where they are planted. Then that tree doesn't want to grow and everyone gets blamed, except those who should never have put that tree there. Mr. Chairman. There is no gap between farmer and citizen. There is a gap between farmers and the government. That gap just seems to be growing. It is necessary to draw up rules in conjunction with the sectors, but above all to remove unnecessary and bureaucratic rules. It is necessary to look closely at the objectives of the subsidy rules. For example, pig farming has repeatedly warned against the abuse of the nitrogen clean-up scheme. The subsidy scheme was originally not about nitrogen, but about smell. Let me say again: it is a scheme designed by pig farming itself. They do feel responsible for a good living environment. In the end, the goal is not achieved and not the Minister, but pig farming is in a bad light. Why don't we listen to each other better? The farmers are our experts. They have ideas, but they're crippled, they're tired, they don't know where they are and they don't feel heard. Mr. Chairman. "The fewer farmers, the better": I know there are parties that would love it. They think our country is better off without farmers. I predict that without farmers, things will get worse. The relatively cheap farmland will soon become expensive building land. Our country is closing down, the environmental burden is only increasing, land management is becoming priceless and the countryside is disappearing. Every year, the Netherlands loses 7,000 hectares of agricultural land, mainly to urbanization and roads. Do we find it strange that biodiversity is reduced with the advent of homes, industry and all tile gardens? Farmers' landbirds and meadowbirds aren't called that for nothing. In recent decades, agricultural land has fallen sharply. Since 1950 the Netherlands lost 525,000 hectares of agricultural land. And if it goes on like this, another 300,000 hectares of agricultural land will be lost until 2050. Partly it is also for nature, but meadow birds are not found in an oak tree, and a grutto is not found on the heather fields either. Or do we think there will be more meadow birds if you convert thousands of hectares of farmland into roads, construction land or nature every year? For biodiversity, nitrogen is not the determining factor, but primarily the habitat. Too small a habitat makes species disappear. Strangely enough, we hardly hear that message, because this means that we need more rural areas instead of less. That is an uncomfortable truth for some parties. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the final act. Let's make good use of the money we have available. It is bad news that a subsidy scheme for source-based approach to emissions is not being used up. What is the Minister going to do to better involve the sector? Or let me put it another way. Will the Minister listen better to the input from the sector, so that together we can take steps? The farmers need our help very much and cannot do so alone. I'll come back to the PBL story. The Planning Office for the Environment does not say that livestock farming is unsustainable. The PBL says that cramping to critical deposition values is what makes laymen fall: this is the precipitation in the nature reserves, which leads to the disappearance of open livestock farming and arable farming from the Netherlands. That's what the PBL says. If we stick to that, open farming and arable farming will disappear. The PBL did not say: the livestock must leave the Gelder Valley, the Green Heart and North Brabant. That's not in that report at all. Martijn Vink, senior researcher of PBL, and lead author, even says that a focus on those critical deposition values is unnecessary. The Birds and Habitats Directives do not even mention the word nitrogen at all. It says that the Netherlands needs to maintain nature reserves well. There is nothing in the Birds and Habitats Directives about how the Netherlands should do that. That is up to politics; that choice is up to us. We choose to do so. You can also say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u21	Mrs. Van der Plas, I'd like to interrupt. You have started a subject which, in my opinion, does not quite fit in with the final act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u22	Well, it came along here, so I thought I'd say something about it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u23	You can add one more sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u24	In fact, I would like to add one more sentence. The same main author of the PBL also says: do not set the lowest KDWs as a long-term goal, but do whatever the Birds and Habitats Directives require, namely improve nature quality. It is not nature that suffers from farmers, it is farmers who suffer from politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u25	Thank you. Mr Boswijk has a very brief question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u26	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick to one interruption tonight, but it's a fundamental one. We've been here 100 days and I hear descriptions of the sector... There are very big challenges, I can see that. But if we don't do anything at all, the sector will automatically halve. And what bothers me so much is that you're constantly torturing people. Take LTO. It came up with an ambitious plan on May 25th. They stick their necks out and Mrs Van der Plas responds as follows: "BBB is bewildered that a farmer's organisation is coming up with such a plan." On that day on Twitter I did not agree with the whole plan, because I think it is brave that they break the status quo at this time. Then I get a response from Mrs Van der Plas: 'Maybe they should demand that more be measured'. Well, the good thing is, this is exactly what's in the LTO plan. Then the tweet was erased. Luckily, I saved it. A few days later...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u27	Mr. Boswijk, please...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u28	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but I'm gonna finish it anyway. My question is: please read first and do not torch everything every time, because that only polarizes and does not bring a solution forward. On June 25, Ms. Van der Plas posted a video online on Facebook: "Dear Mr. Veerman, dear Mr. Erisman, I read your plan through the media that the peasants must be chased away from the Veluwe and the Gelderse Valley." First of all, read reports yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u29	No, your question is clear, your message is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u30	...and not through the media. There's no plan of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u31	Mr. Boswijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u32	...Mr. Veerman and Mr. Erisman and it didn't say at all that there should be wiped clean. Then you were on the stage yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u33	Mr. Boswijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u34	I stuck my neck out. You were on the stage yesterday. You yourself say that I do not have ready-made solutions. That makes me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u35	No, I'm really sorry about this. Yes, it makes you very angry, but you also know what night it is. Then your interruptions can be a lot shorter and a lot more concise. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u36	It is a pity: Derk, Mr Boswijk and I were supposed to drink coffee yesterday, but that could not happen because of debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u37	Maybe you should do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u38	I think it's a good idea to do that. I'd like to respond to one thing. I do object to the word "flaring" because I am not finishing the torch, I am critical. Everyone can be critical in this country. We live in a democratic rule of law here, and I can just be critical of plans. You cannot agree with that; I am totally fine with that. But again, I'm not gonna blow anything off. I'm critical. In fact, all over the nitrogen phenomenon: it is just in our election programme that we think that this whole nitrogen law should be removed. So you will never hear me say in a plan that we are going along with the nitrogen measures. You'll never hear that we're okay with that, because the whole nitrogen bill has to be removed because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u39	Mr. Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u40	...the measurements are wrong, because there are assumptions and models. That is what we want: to return to the drawing board first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u41	I think it's best that you have a cup of coffee with each other instead of here... Because this can go on forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u42	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u43	One final point. I don't think it's just about nitrogen. There are very big challenges...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u44	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u45	... and the sector is counting on perspective and not polarization. Our words matter and that is why I really call it "flaring."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u46	Your point is clear. That's what you're gonna have a cup of coffee about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u47	One final comment on this. Our words matter? No one said your words didn't matter. I, too, can be critical of those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u48	Okay, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u49	That seems to me to be a very healthy understanding in the Netherlands, that we are critical of each other. We never have to agree. You can also say: let's agree to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u50	Look, and that in plain Dutch. Finally, we go to Mr Van Campen. I look forward to your contribution after this intermezzo. Okay, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u51	That's always important, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President. The emotions are high, and it's not that crazy. We saw this yesterday on the Malieveld; a number of colleagues also referred to it. Entrepreneurs, farmers, young, old, extensive, intensive, organic and in what forms agriculture is still rich, who came up and made themselves heard about their future. I was allowed to be there and I found that very inspiring. I saw people there who were deeply concerned about their business, about the tasks we have to discuss with each other now only 100 days in this mandate and hundreds of days in front of us, if it is right. We read report after report. Some of the reports have already passed this evening. I hope that there will be an opportunity, as a committee, to discuss this further, in detail, because the reports are so technical that they ask for nuance. They are not contained in a headline about the survival of an entire sector, because it is not just a sector, it is about the lives of farming families. It's about conversations being held at the kitchen table. Am I taking over my parents' company? Do I dare to enter into this obligation now? And if so, can I still make a living in that agricultural sector for the next 20, 30 years, on that farm? These are urgent issues that we will have to discuss in this House in the coming years. It's not just about the farms, it's about communities, about noaberdom, about looking at each other and about the countryside and agriculture as part of Dutch culture. But we have to deal responsibly with the agreements we have made with each other. We must also note, see the problem of nitrogen, that over the past five, ten, twenty years we may not have realised what we have achieved. Perhaps in the coming years we should find solutions to problems that we should have solved before. We all might own a little bit of that. But that also creates the responsibility to look each other in the eye. That is what I hear Mr Boswijk say, what I hear Mr Van der Plas say, what I hear Mr De Groot say, each in his own way, with his own solutions, but looking for that honest story. I hear the Minister say that, and I see the Minister doing so in writing and defending the nitrogen law and in the final act. How do we deal with the means for the warm clean-up of pig farming? Can that mean something for quitting calves so that it might give room to other farmers in that sector to give perspective and space? I think that is the expensive duty that awaits us, to look together at the task ahead, to seek the space, to take the measures that outline the perspective for the agricultural sector, which we all feel about, but ordinary farmers' families, people at the kitchen table, are talking about their future. I wish the Minister much wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u52	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u53	I'll give the Minister the floor. I hope that it will be able to answer briefly the many questions raised by the Animal Party in particular. I have agreed with the Animal Party that a maximum of three interruptions are taking place. Let's see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u54	Mr. Chairman. I don't know about you, but one of those last nights, just before you go on recess, always makes me a little bit melancholic. Then you will indeed look back: how did the year actually go, did it go well or did it go less well? For many of you it is indeed the first time you have been sitting in these benches. It's kind of special. I didn't count them, you did. 100 days. I can only imagine that on such a night, I'll do that to look back at everything that's happened. Tonight that's extra special, because it's really the last time we're standing here. It makes me a little melancholy, I must say. I've been here since 2006. There are those who walk around here a lot longer, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u55	Well, then you are one of the elders among us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u56	Well, rub it in one more time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u57	2006?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u58	Yeah, as an employee, huh? I have to be honest with you, Mr. Chairman. That's when I was an employee. There's literally a lot of history in this building. Tonight we actually have a sort of look-back debate. At least, it's about the final law and the annual report and then you look back, but that's also literally done by some of your members. Mr. Chairman. When I heard that, I had to go back to when I was standing here three, almost four years ago. In one of the first debates, I put some kind of credentials on the table. What was my purpose as Minister of Agriculture? What did I want to achieve? As a new minister, you have all the good ideas and good courage to go for it. What I said in one of the first debates was: it is my ambition not to break up parties, but to see what connects us, to see how you can get along in an already polarized field instead of naming what the other does not do well. I think I literally referred to it as that at the time: do we have it in us, do we have the ability to get rid of one's own tile, step on the other's tile and think what exactly drives the other? Not to agree with that right away, because I think that is very often not the case. But in life, it's very often about understanding first and then being understood. It is precisely as representatives of the people that we have, I am now a minister, so I am not a representative of the people; by the way, I am formally both at the moment, but I am only here as Minister on the one hand, the opportunity to conduct the debate sharply and really challenge each other: where do you stand and what do you really want? But I believe that we, as representatives of the people, all have an expensive duty to look for ways forward. And that shot through me tonight when I heard all the stories. Then I thought: have we been in those four years, have I been in those four years, let me keep it to myself? I'm not gonna answer that question. By the way, I have had a lot of rhetorical questions for myself this evening. I do not know whether I was supposed to give a substantive answer to each question, because I had the impression that the answers were all fixed. I will try to answer some questions later............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Not at all. I'm here to answer. I am here to say what may not have gone well, but also to say what did go well and, at least, what I have tried. The only thing I want to say is that if you have some time left this summer, you will consider how we can move forward with this country. Do you think about how we can move forward with agriculture and nature? Think of what might drive the other one you disagree with at all. Maybe you should ask the other guy for that cup of coffee to find out. But remember above all: what does this country need and how can we play our part together in this? That is the only thing I really hope for following this debate. Then I've had a few more questions. I have to answer the President's question very briefly. I'm gonna try. None of that will succeed and will raise sharp questions again, which I will try to answer with love. Mrs. Vestering is asking for the nitrogen bill. Does it go far enough? Hasn't that ever been pointed out? In fact, I pointed that out to the Chamber myself. I said that we knew that the objectives of the law, which were initially set for 2030 and then for 2035, were not enough. So I myself was the one who said that this law does not go far enough and that we need to go into further detail. I would like to point out, however, that steps have really been taken, that one might find them too far, that the other might not be seen as a problem for years, but was tried to circumvent it, so to speak. I would also like to say to Mr Van Campen that we have sometimes looked too far away on some points, and we now have to acknowledge that there are a number of things that need to be taken up. This law has begun to do so. That was much needed, too. Then I come to the question of whether there has been any learning in the field of improving fire safety. How do I look back on that? I've told you before that every barn fire is horrible. It's terrible for the animals. It's terrible for the farmers, too. I don't know a farmer who thinks, "Well, that's too bad, we're just gonna keep going." It hits everyone. I have, also in response to the report of the OVV, put my hand in my own bosom. I said: yes, I should perhaps have been sharper on that and I should have taken more steps there. I have also indicated that we are now working on a response to the OVV report and that I will use that look to formulate the response. He'll be coming to your room very soon. Then you can again judge whether it is sufficient or not. The mink farm. I'm just paraphrasing what Mrs. Vestering said about that, so don't take it too literally. She said I've run big risks because of my policy on mink breeding. She also referred to Denmark. I happened to have a word with the Danish colleague last week to look back on this dossier. We met in Luxembourg. The Danes have had a very big problem. They've barely been able to solve that problem. That's where mink are buried. They had to be dug up again, because it affected water quality. You can take it as an example of a country where it all went very well. It's okay. I believe that, in the way we have dealt with it, we have eliminated the risks of covid in mink breeding. I think that, as requested by the Chamber, we have done so in a way that was right for the farmers involved. We took care of that in a very short but tidy way. All this will have been too little for Mrs Vestering, but if I compare it with other countries, I think: there are times when I am more upset about myself. I think we really have taken steps here that have done justice to both of them. Then the heat stress. We do not know how things are going this summer, but we are seeing more and more summers where there is a problem and there are always real animal welfare problems. Hence my plea in Brussels, in Europe, that we should really take more action, especially in the case of long-distance transport. It's a poachy road, but we're going to go one step at a time. I would point out, by the way, that it is not only about transport by road but also about transport by boat. Over the last few weeks, we have worked very hard to move forward in Europe to make long-distance transport by ship more stringent. I should like to point out that it was thanks to the Netherlands that this happened, because many Member States thought it was okay the way it was. Here too, I have already indicated that we are constantly looking at what measures are needed. This concerns, for example, the heat plan, the use of NVWA to monitor how animal welfare is handled at high temperatures. It has been specifically asked why action in the Netherlands is only at 35 degrees and not at 30 degrees, as in Europe. That's because it's about shorter transports in the Netherlands. In Europe, it's about eight-hour transports. That is not the length of the transports we have in the Netherlands within the country. Once you have longer transports, that limit is 30 degrees. Mrs Vestering has announced a number of motions. I'm just gonna wait and see. She'll be filing it in a minute. It has made a number of comments, including those on the motion on the hare and rabbit. She asked, "Why doesn't the Minister carry it out?" I told you how to do it. The Chamber has also been informed about this, so you know exactly what I am doing in it. Then I come to Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u59	But not after Mrs Vestering has asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u60	Thank you for the comprehensive response to the questions asked, the sharp questions as the Minister said. I have a specific question on the implementation of the motion on hare and rabbit. The Chamber is asking quite clearly for these two species to be removed from the list of species that are free to hunt. We're not asking for an investigation, we're asking for nothing complicated, we're asking purely and simply: Minister, take these two species off that list. The Minister doesn't do that. Before I come back to this in the second term, I would very much like to know if the Minister is going to do so. As of August 15th, the rabbit is allowed to be shot and hunted again. Will the Minister carry out this motion as intended by the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u61	The hares and rabbits have entered the list in the lowest category "sensitive" because their populations have decreased. However, the populations of hares and rabbits are still numerous. It's not like there's no hares and rabbits out there anymore. A Red List listing is not equal to a bad state of conservation. If I were to close the hunt, which is a legislative amendment, I would have to prove that the conservation status is at stake. That's why I'm investigating that. If it turns out that the state of conservation is at stake, I will take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u62	I think it is wonderful that the Minister wants to do further research into the actual situation with the hare and rabbit, but that is not the task of the Chamber. I ask the Minister once again to take them seriously in order to prevent us from shooting rabbits again from 15 August. Otherwise, we will again have the situation that the Animal Party will have to table motions or amendments on one eve in order to amend the law itself and remove these two species from the list. So again the question: is the Minister going to carry out that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u63	Mr President, I have just indicated how I am doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u64	Then you don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u65	One last question. I also specifically asked what the situation is with regard to pig rights. I said that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u66	I don't think the Minister has gotten to that in her words, have he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u67	Well, I had to answer all the questions briefly. I'll try, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u68	That's true. What is your question, Mrs. Vestering?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u69	I have clearly explained that a very strange kind of recycling system has been created by the Minister for the ransom of pig rights. In the south-east region pig rights are bought free. Elsewhere she doesn't lose them to the pavement. Then they'll be sold to the southeast region again. Now we are back in the same situation and we are again buying up pig rights from the same region. That does not seem to me to be the kind of cycle the Minister provides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u70	The pig rights referred to by Mrs Vestering come from the so-called ROK scheme. The ROK scheme is pre-existing in this cabinet. It belonged to a previous cabinet. The scheme was established in the years 2016 and 2017. It was filled with crisis resources, crisis money, from Europe that was released there. The implementation of the scheme was at the time invested in a development company. That development company bought those rights. These could then be redistributed to sustainable companies for a fee. That was in the ROK scheme. Again, it's not mine. It's from before that time, but it did exist. With ROK regulation, you could just re-expose the rights. Pig prices fell after that. Therefore, phase two of that scheme was at risk. That was the re-expenditure of rights to sustainable companies. It was therefore decided that the rights could be resold in phase two. That was all within an arrangement that already existed. That was before we started with the Srv, the current system for buying up pig rights. We have also learned from this, because the warm clean-up of pig farming has a very different design. That is where it was decided to go through rights, as Mrs Vestering also knows. That is quite different from what the ROK scheme was about. Again, that was an arrangement that already existed when I took office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u71	Mrs Vestering, briefly on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u72	The Minister himself has given permission to resell the rights that have been redeemed in the area where they were previously bought, even with a discount. That's double tax money paid for these pig rights. So my question is: why did the Minister give permission to do so? Are the pig rights which are now withdrawn from the market 100%? Or is it still the case that when pig rights are bought up with tax money, pig farms can simply expand elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u73	The pig rights that are bought up are being removed. It is true that some companies have leased pig rights. I can't buy them, because they belong to someone else and they are returned to the one who leased the rights. The rights held by the pig farmer from whom they are bought are removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u75	Yes. Then I come to Mr Boswijk. Mr Boswijk tried to make a binding speech. He has also been looking over the past period for: how can you actually come up with solutions to the major problems that exist? I am referring not only to the major problems of the environment, climate or whatever, but also to major problems for farmers. I recognize with Mr Boswijk that the worst thing that happens to farmers is that they have a lot of uncertainty. That they don't know what they're up to anymore. That's what I care about. I also think that we should be more clear about this and, therefore, give more direction to the way in which you move forward in a number of discussions. These include climate, soil, water and nitrogen. I see that Mr Boswijk is doing the same, including with his vision. I haven't quite read it yet, I have to confess. I had some busy days, but it's ready for the weekend. Mr Boswijk himself has already made his contribution this evening. That's what I've been trying to say tonight: when you first put down your motivation and your motivations, you can look for what connects to the other and what you may have to ask each other a lot of questions about, to see if you can move on. I recognize a lot of what Mr Boswijk says, for example about being a steward, about the long-term perspective and about keeping an eye on the historical perspective. But also: having an eye for the living environment. What I think is courageous of him, let me put it this way, President... is that he says: the system we are in actually does not bring anyone else forward. That's quite a complicated message if people don't know otherwise than that they have to work in that system. Then I'll come back to my starting argument: it's our job to make sure we take the right steps to adapt that system. That really is a process of looking for the right steps to be taken. On the one hand, we must ensure that the farmer gets a better price for the valuable food he makes and that he gets recognition for it. On the other hand, we must do justice to nature and to soil, air, water and living environment. As long as it is given to me to sit in this place, I will gladly go on the search with Mr Boswijk. He still had a number of specific questions, including the landscape grounds, as he called it. He referred to it as a kind of intermediate form between land that is genuinely for agriculture and land that is designated only for nature. I am interested in Mr Boswijk's ideas on this. We have already said, of course, that you are also going to have transition zones in the nature route that surrounds the whole nitrogen approach. These are areas in which you allow agriculture and nature to merge much more. There are ideas on how to do that, but I am also very interested in Mr Boswijk's ideas for combining functions there. In some places in the country that will be necessary. You can search for and offer perspective to the farmer, perhaps in a different way than he has always done, and contribute to nature. Mr Boswijk tied the management fee to that. He asks me whether I would like to examine whether you can get that management money, which now, for example, ends up with the TBOs, the land-based organizations, to the farmer more if he does work for it. I find that an interesting thought. I'd like to see what the possibilities are for that. We have to take a close look at the amounts, because there is often also the problem. I'm just saying that right away, not to kill it right away, but state aid issues often come around here. But I do find it a challenge to see how you can find more combinations there. I'm willing to do that. Finally. It seems a bit clumsy this evening with Mr Boswijk, but I also share the impression that the PBL report that has been issued can give the impression that there is no farmer left in three provinces. That is what I heard Mrs van der Plas say, by the way. However, I do not think that this is the point that the PBL wanted to make. The PBL said, in your approach, not only rely on nitrogen emissions and deposition, so the precipitation, but look at the state of conservation of nature, because that is what is called for in the Birds and Habitats Directives. That is exactly what we are working on with our policies. I've also released $5 billion for nature. That's what's in there. This is, for example, about the height of the water level. As I said in reply to the parliamentary questions: at the moment when there is enormous dehydration and I have reduced my nitrogen completely, nature is not getting any better either. You're gonna have to look at the whole complex of conservation. Yeah, that's nitrogen part of it, but there's a lot more business to it. It's precisely in that combination that you have to find the solutions. I was right to respond to a comment made by Mrs van der Plas, because she had also asked questions about it. Mrs van der Plas also asked a specific question about subsidies not all of which have been used. Do I ever intend to shape these subsidies with the farmers? I must remind her of a slight inconsistency in her speech. She also said that the Svb, the reform of pig farming, is a regulation of the sector. This was precisely about the unused funds for the Svb. I think it shows that we really did shape this arrangement in discussions with the sector. So it is not entirely true that we are not looking for contacts. I believe that Mrs van der Plas recognizes this also when she says that this regulation was actually from the sector. The resources that are not all being used now, for example for low-emission stables, are therefore not gone. When we set up a number of programmes, we already knew that it was dependent on many factors whether farmers wanted to participate. For example, when adjusting the stables. That has to do with uncertainty, as I have just mentioned. If you don't know exactly what the plans are or what your future looks like, then you're not going to make any big investments and you're not going to apply for a grant for them either. For me, it underlines once again that we must offer that perspective and also give it more clarity, otherwise we will leave those farmers in the dark with all the consequences. I have already said a few words about the gap that it finds in my introduction. I have always sought in my policy that we have respect for what farmers do and that we appreciate that our food is being produced. Sometimes we may not give enough thought to what a privilege it is that we have so much food. Sometimes we forget where it comes from. But there are also challenges that we have to face with each other, including nitrogen. Mrs van der Plas is critical of this. She says she can't find the law and never go along with it. I would like to call on her to come and think about how she thinks it should be done and how it should be reduced. This is not only because of agriculture, because there are other sectors, but also because of agriculture. We need to translate that message. I hope Mrs van der Plas will join me in thinking about how that might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u76	Thinking with me can always be possible; I am always open to that. Just like I'm open to drinking coffee with people. I am not the pissed off one in that regard, and I am not the pissed off one in other things, by the way. On the subject of uncertainty, it is not that uncertainty is so bad because farmers don't know when to stop or how much money they get when they're being bought out. The uncertainty is that farmers are thinking about the question: can I be a farmer at all? That's it. Can I still be here? Am I still wanted? That is what it is about, and not about the period when or about whether their child can still take over the company. Of course that also plays, but even more so the feeling is: can it still be? Do people still want us? That's what's going on. I just wanted to clarify that after the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u77	That is also one of the questions about uncertainty. Sometimes farmers come to me who are not very happy with what I am doing. That's their right. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Those farmers are here, and I find them. But at the same time, they also ask me if I can tell them what it's gonna be. Actually, they think that's even more important, even if it's not such a nice message. At least they know whether or not to make a particular choice. That's also the honest story. If we pretend like nothing's going on and nothing has to change, then maybe we'll stretch out that uncertainty just as much, so they don't know if they can take over a company, whether they have to invest in their company or whatever. Sometimes you better be clear and think along about the options instead of saying that it doesn't have to and that nothing is going on, because it just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u78	Mrs Van der Plas briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u79	It could be. We can continue to have this discussion for a very long time, but it all builds up. That is why the farmers were on the Malieveld yesterday. That was actually for a very different reason than that on 1 October 2019, because then it was purely about the nitrogen rules. Why they were there yesterday is because report after report comes out, even in the past almost two years, and it becomes increasingly clear to them that they really need to leave. Everyone can say that there is no need for fewer farmers, but that is how they feel, whether it is right or not. But those feelings are justified. That's why that protest was held yesterday. I hope other people can see that, too. They do not want to have a discussion on a stage about a vision A or a vision B. They feel it's getting worse. They thought it was bad, but it gets worse every year. That's what they feel. That is the last thing I want to say about it - that feeling is taken seriously. The number of suicides in the agricultural sector is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u80	Sorry, Mrs Van der Plas, I'm really going to interrupt you, because I have the feeling that the Minister is hearing very well and understands what you're saying here. So I really want to finish, because this isn't just any night, unfortunately. I think your point will come across quite well. I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u81	I endorse what Mrs van der Plas says, namely that your words matter, and that whatever is written about them also matters. That goes for everyone. Then it is important, on the one hand, for us to engage in this debate with empathy, but not to avoid that discussion either. That's the combination I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u82	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u83	From that perspective, I think Mr Van Campen has also made a number of comments. He is particularly concerned with providing perspective for the sector. There's a lot of work to be done. I would also like to thank him for the more collective self-reflection he tried to do: did we not sometimes look away from major problems, and did we sometimes not start too late? Those are questions I'm asking myself, too. So that's not just a question for the Chamber, but, I think, for everyone involved. At the same time, the only answer we can give is to take the right steps. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a close. I look forward to it, too; I don't know how much longer it's gonna take. But as long as it takes, I also look forward to taking up these duties with your Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u84	Thank you for your answer. Then we go to a short second term, because I understand that motions need to be tabled. So, Mrs Vestering, you first have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a total of EUR 483,4 million of taxpayers' money is being made available for the Provincial Purchase Scheme and that more buy-out schemes are likely to follow;]] [[noting that it is not yet clear whether these buy-out arrangements will remove all production rights from the market or allow them to be resold so that they can be extended elsewhere;]] [[states that it would be absurd to spend nearly half a billion euros of taxpayers' money on moving a problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u86	Next up, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the Minister imposed a ban on the transport of animals at a temperature of 35 degrees Celsius or higher;]] [[Whereas animals in livestock farming can already suffer from heat at 24 degrees and can already suffer from heat stress between 26 degrees and 29 degrees, which makes the standard of 35 degrees far too high;]] [[noting that the Minister in Europe calls for a ban on long-distance transport if it is 30 degrees or warmer somewhere during transport, unless climate-controlled transport vehicles are used;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the maximum temperature for animal transports to 30 degrees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that animals still have to wait in hot trucks in front of slaughterhouses for a long time on hot days, or have to continue to drive in circles until they are unloaded;]] [[calls on the Government to establish by law that the waiting period at the slaughterhouse may not exceed 15 minutes until the start of unloading,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u87	A fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to establish legally that at an external temperature of 21 degrees Celsius at least 10% and at a temperature of 25 degrees Celsius 25% less animals may be transported per truck,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is estimated that tens of thousands of animals die each year from heat during transport and in stables;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan of action to ensure a structurally lower housing density in the months in which the risk of hot days is greatest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the policy responsibility for the well-being of the large grazers in the Oostvaardersplassen was transferred from the Empire to the Flevoland Province College at the end of 2016.]] [[Whereas, since then, concerns about the well-being and reports of serious suffering of the large grazers have not diminished, but have increased significantly;]] [[considers that responsibility for animal welfare exceeds the interests of the province;]] [[Calls on the Government to evaluate the transfer of the policy responsibility of the well-being of the large graziers in the Oostvaardersplassen, and to inform the Chamber about this before the winter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u88	Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u89	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, but before I submit them, I first thank the Minister for her commitment and the difficult time she has had. I'm sure I'll have a cup of coffee with Mrs. Van der Plas. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current system of subsidies for nature and landscape management in the provinces only partially compensates for the management costs of nature reserves and that this system does not provide any incentive to manage nature for farmers who lease plots from the land-based organisations;]] [[calls on the government to explore further with the provinces, land-based organisations and farmers' organisations what the legal possibilities are, in addition to the current system of subsidies for nature management, profitable for farmers to manage nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the PBL notes that a choice of strict nitrogen targets, such as obtaining KDWs throughout the Netherlands in 2040 or 2050, would result in a historically unparalleled transformation of "farming country Netherlands";]] [[Whereas recent emphasis has been placed solely on reducing nitrogen, which does not fully reflect the future of nature and agriculture;]] [[Whereas, in the nitrogen debate, extensive farms outside the cows appear to pose a threat;]] [[Considers that support for and action perspective for a potentially far-reaching policy approach are important given the potentially very far-reaching implications for the rural area;]] [[calls on the government not to ignore the nitrogen targets in the area-based approach, but to bear in mind the broad nature objectives and the future of agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently two options, namely agricultural land or natural land;]] [[Whereas it is important for the future of agriculture in the Netherlands to bring agriculture and nature closer together;]] [[Whereas farmers do wish to maintain the agricultural value of the land while maintaining nature conservation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal for a third option involving the natural management of agricultural land and to include in this proposal how the destination is regulated, how an optimal balance is found between nature and agriculture and how the farmer's income model can look like;]] [[calls on the Government to send this proposal to the Chamber for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Boswijk and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35830-XIV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u91	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am going to pass the motions briefly and I have one more appreciation for a motion tabled by Mrs Van der Plas the night before last. I don't even know what debate that was in anymore, but I do know that it was with the Minister of Finance. The spring note, I hear. Okay. I haven't given that appreciation yet, and I'm sorry. I'll try to fix that tonight. The motion-Festering in part No. 9 is a speech-expression. It's not up to me. The motion-Festering in part No. Ten, I'm telling you. We just adopted that scheme last year. The motion-Festering in part No. 11, I advise. The motion-Festering in part No. 12, I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u93	Mrs Vestering, I would like to hear the judgments on all the motions and then I will give you the floor, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u94	The motion-Festering in part No. 13, I advise. The motion-Festering in part No. Fourteen I advise. The Boswijk motion in part No. I've got to get my records on it. I can give judgment Chamber. The motion for a resolution by Mr Boswijk/Bisschop on part No. 16 I can also give judgment Chamber. Sending on broad nature objectives is what we do, but that also includes nitrogen, I say at the same time. It is not true that there is no nitrogen problem in this, but we are right here reasoning from the nature goals. It is also not the case that socio-economic reasons should not lead to these objectives not being achieved or adjusted downwards. This must also be taken into account in the choice of measures. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can give her judgment Chamber. The Boswijk motion in part No. I have just had that mentioned in my reply to Mr Boswijk's questions, and I can also give a ruling on the Chamber. Ground is an important subject. If your Chamber adopts the motion, the Cabinet will take the proposal as part of a wider proposal to see how you can come up with a sustainable perspective for agriculture. I shall therefore refer that to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u95	I understand that everyone is in need of recess, but I would like to invite the Minister to come to our tile in the context of tile wisdom, and to give a little more explanation than purely and "I advise against" at the moment when she advises on motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u96	I think I have already made a number of points in the debate. Above all, I hear Mrs Vestering say what is not good enough. I can imagine that more needs to be done from her point of view, but I have just indicated that steps have already been taken, for example around animal transports, the reduction, that we are really drawing the line at 35 degrees. She's asking for 30 degrees. It's okay. Then we have to split it all out by animal category, because it is again different by animal category. It's also in the length of the transport. I have just explained this in my speech and we have just established the scheme last year. That's why I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u97	That is not a substantive reaction. It's mainly: "We did it last year and now I have to go all the way for all those animal species..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u98	No, I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u99	Well, I listened in and at the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u100	Mr President, I would like to object for a moment, because I have the impression that I am responding to Mrs Vestering in substance. I have said that it must then be determined by animal category which temperature at which time. I think I'm giving a substantive judgment. I only believe that Mrs Vestering also does not intend to approach things from my perspective. She doesn't have to do that, but I'm not gonna take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u101	Mrs. Vestering, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u102	We are talking about millions of animals here, and I am talking about the approach from the animal's perspective. It must be at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u103	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u104	Mr. Chairman. I am still looking at Mrs Van der Plas' motion. She has tabled a motion for a resolution. It is perhaps a good thing to say this here for the Acts on the socio-economic and financial consequences of the possible disappearance of ten thousand livestock and arable farms in the provinces of Gelderland, Overijssel, the Green Heart and North Brabant...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u105	Maybe you have a number, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u106	That's the motion in part No. 13 (35850).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u107	Okay. Submitted to the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u108	At the spring note, yeah. Mrs Van der Plas would like to know what all the consequences of this are, as in the report To a relaxed Netherlands by Mr Strootman and Mr Erisman and a PBL advice... No, To a relaxed Netherlands it is PBL... No, the PBL advice came out 5 July and To a relaxed Netherlands is from Mr Strootman and Mr Erisman. She wants all the consequences to be made clear. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. They're not all necessarily reports that I'm asking for or anything like that. PBL also produces self-reports. For Erisman and Strootman we have given subsidies, but it has really been on their own initiative that they have done so. Nor can I anticipate at all whether we are going to do something with these reports and, if so, what we are going to do with them. I just got them. They are also on the pile "to study well," just like Mr Boswijk's vision. I agree with Mrs van der Plas that it is essential that the next steps we are taking include a sustainable perspective and support for the agricultural sector, but I cannot yet judge these reports. We really need to look into that. That is why I would ask her to hold this motion. If we look further at what is in those reports and say that the cabinet is going to further shape policy, then I think that is the discussion Mrs van der Plas wants to have. If there is a policy, what impact does it have? These are reports that outline directions, but as has been said, the cabinet has not yet chosen a direction and the cabinet has not said "we are going to do something about this right now" or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u109	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u110	I would like to change the motion in itself in order to map out the same consequences as I call them in the motion in the case of tens of thousands of companies, and I would like to add a number of them and what that would have to do with it. I also see that, for example, the CBS is already responding to this and says: the sector is good for so many billions of economic value; it would have a huge impact on jobs, because there are 300,000 jobs in livestock farming alone. So there is a lot to be said about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u111	Mrs van der Plas, but then you propose that you really amend your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u112	In my opinion, Mrs Van der Plas wants to know the following: if we were to make policies, what impact would this policy have? Because at the moment there are quite a lot of reports coming through, all of which come from a different approach. I have just said that the cabinet still has to make a judgment on this. I would advise her that she asks what the impact is when policies are in place or are being proposed. But yes, to calculate what 10,000 companies do, it seems to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u113	The Minister would very much like you to hold the motion. You can also choose to put the motion to the vote, but then it will be dissuaded, so I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u114	What matters to me is that it is a good thing that this Chamber, before any policy is made, is informed about the possible consequences, or with a factsheet with facts and figures, so that this Chamber is simply well informed before any policy is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u115	I'm going to see the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u116	We go seven weeks with recess, so it also seems nice reading food for the next few weeks. I can see why it's not on the table tomorrow. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u117	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u118	I'd really like to ask you to hold the motion. I hear Mrs. Van der Plas very well. She says: if steps are taken, I also want to know what the possible effects are. But as the motion has now been formulated, we should also do so on the basis of things that may not become policies at all. If I have to respond to every report, it's gonna be a lot of work. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u119	Mrs. Van der Plas, it's up to you. Either you hold the motion, or you put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u120	I always think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u121	Very good. If you put the motion to the vote, she will be denied judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u122	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u123	I thank the Minister for her reply, for her coming to the Chamber and for her fine words about this building, which we are about to close behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-63.u124	I shall suspend for a few moments and then we shall go to the final two-minute debate for this recess.
