ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we will continue with the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change. Welcome to both directors and my colleagues. Everyone is fresh and fruity again, so we're going to have a nice day. We are going to listen to the two directors and answer them, but only after I have given Mr Van der Lee the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a point of order. That has to do with what's going on in Glasgow at the moment, especially yesterday. There has been a wonderful initiative from the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Together with other countries, he wants to call for an agreement to end the funding of fossil fuels by the end of next year. Our Prime Minister, who was present in Glasgow, responded by saying that we are not going to do that. I don't understand. More than three years ago, in 2018, a motion of mine was passed asking the government to identify those financial incentives in favour of fossil. That motion also called for a phasing-out path. There isn't even a path down there yet. Now we hear from the media that the government does not want to participate with other developed countries that want to make that promise. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet, during this debate, on why that position was taken and how it relates to a motion adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear your request. I look at trade-K with a slanted eye to see if there can be some kind of reaction from the cabinet somewhere during this day. That's the request. I see noding in agreement, so your request is granted, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Eerdmans also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	I've been in the House of Representatives since March. I'd like to talk to you about the order. I also have my questions about things that I have just read in the newspaper and which I would like to submit to the cabinet to get a response today. What's going on here isn't part of the order, is it? I'm okay with that, but you're just gonna do that on your own term, right? Or are we all gonna ask all kinds of questions and ask letters here? That's not part of the order, is it? I think it's just politics. It's fine. I get it. But then I also have five questions that I would like to put to the Secretary of State and to see answered today or within an hour. But I think that's just part of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's your point of view. Mr Van der Lee has made the request and the cabinet has responded positively. They're gonna respond to that. How the Cabinet does that, we'll see. I understand your point, Mr. Eerdmans. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	I wholeheartedly endorse Mr Van der Lee's appeal. I really think it is crucial for this debate that we get this information, because it is so decisive for the climate crisis that we join in. I would like to ask: can that letter really come sometime in the morning so that we can talk about it in debate? I mean before noon. It's a very important discussion point. If we get it at the end of the debate, we won't be able to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	We said "during the debate." We're gonna give the Cabinet some space to give you a response that will help you. We shall now proceed to the response of the two directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Strien on his maiden speech. Forgive me if that brings some melancholy to me. The first budget that I myself was allowed to treat as a Member of Parliament on behalf of the VVD Group was also the Economic Affairs budget. As so often in life, you see such a circle playing out in front of you. The melancholy became even greater when I heard from Mr Van der Lee that he was saying a kind of goodbye. He's going to the Finance Committee. He can't hear me right now, but I'd like to compliment him on that. Economics is of course the beating heart, but finance is also beautiful. I have also made this change on occasion and my experience is that you can also be active in the beautiful area of Economic Affairs and Climate. By the way, you were able to outdo me by telling me that you have been here since 1989. I have been since 1998. I always feel like I've been here since the old Stone Age, but Mr Van der Lee has seen the dinosaurs walking around here, so that indeed fits some melancholy. But, of course, we cannot linger in the past; we must move quickly to economic topicality. Of course we look back briefly on the very special last year. I sincerely believe that a compliment should be given to all those entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who have gone through this very difficult period of corona, who have repeatedly been confronted with difficult measures and have shown enormous resilience. Fortunately, we can also see that the Dutch economy as a whole is in good shape. This does not, of course, detract from the fact that there is a great deal of individual suffering and that there are entrepreneurs and workers who have been severely affected. But as a whole, we are happy to see that the enormous unemployment that was feared a year and a half ago at the start of the crisis did not occur. We also see that economic growth rates are good and expectations are good. So we can look forward with peace of mind to the undoubtedly difficult time ahead. Particularly at this time Mr Azarkan went on to say that inflation is rising sharply. It was extended in the news this morning. The government has, of course, taken action on this with the recently announced energy tax measures. Furthermore, of course, we always keep our finger on the wrist. There are several times when we look at purchasing power development. Mr Azarkan asked if I had any concerns about the impact on the economic climate and specifically on competitiveness. It is not the case that inflation will hit the Netherlands along the line of competitiveness. It does have an impact on the wallet of people, hence the measures taken and the finger we keep on the wrist. Then back to the question of the Dutch economy. There is reason for pride, but not for complacency. Mr Van Haga had a reflection that I found very bleak, about the state of the Dutch entrepreneurial climate, the state of the Dutch economy and the results of the current cabinet. I would like to mention some figures, which will also appeal to Mr Van Haga with his exact background. The Netherlands is the 67th country in the world in terms of population, but in terms of economy number 17. That's really impressive. That's just a compliment to over 17 million Dutch people, who collectively fight way above their weight. This also makes it possible to carry all the valuable facilities we cherish with each other in the Netherlands. Of course, we also look carefully at the annual rankings on economic strength and competitiveness, in addition to all the other important rankings on health and happiness, where the Netherlands is also always high in the top ten. But the Netherlands is consistently high on the economic rankings that are important for today's debate. It is very important that we are on the World Competitiveness Scoreboard in fourth place. That's really impressive. As far as I am concerned, that does not lead to complacency, I shall say a little bit more about it in a moment, but also not to the conclusion that I noticed a little bit from Mr Van Haga, namely that it would make the Netherlands and entrepreneurs permanently unnecessarily difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Van Haga has a question. I forgot to tell you that I am in favour of all the groups today. That's a lot. So keep them short. You don't have to use them all. Mr Van Haga for his first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's a lot more than yesterday. Then we only had four and it still lasted until 02:00, but okay. Of course I agree that the Netherlands is doing very well on all rankings. That's worth a compliment. That is the result of a hundred years of hard work. We should be proud of that and we should cherish it. We will. I have to admit that many cases come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs which are completely compos mentis and are good for the Dutch economy. So it's not all gloomy. However, there are a lot of entrepreneurs under attack who are constantly getting a stack of measures from many other departments. That needs to be taken into account. The funny thing is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs often presents a report, such as the report on those qalys, those 520,000 years of life, which I mentioned in my contribution. A lockdown is well calculated by the Ministry of EZK. The Ministry of General Affairs then agrees to this. We discussed the QR code in detail yesterday, which is likely to be introduced in the workplace. Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs agree with me that this could have an incredible impact and that we should also consider in advance what the collateral damage is? Yesterday, I asked the Prime Minister, and he didn't know what the collateral damage was. It just wasn't in the picture. No, we're trying to do the right thing to fight the corona crisis, but the collateral damage isn't calculated. So my question is whether you have that in view. If not, can we figure that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr President, the answer to Mr Van Haga's question lies in front of me. I'm at the introductory section. After that, I usually answer in cubes. I've liked that for a lifetime. The first block will be, I shall mention them all in a moment, the measures announced yesterday and their impact on the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, by the way, for the words Mr Van Haga just said before the Ministry. In all collegiality, and by the way, that also says state law, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. Of course, we're all people, so inside there are discussions. What comes out is common cabinet policy, whether it's about corona, regulatory pressure or whatever. That's cabinet policy. I'm going back to that Dutch position anyway, and at the same time I want to watch for complacency. The fact that you belong to the Olympic champions means that you have to keep training hard every day and improve yourself to be this next year. This means, therefore, that we must always keep an eye on whether it is feasible and what it means for competitiveness in all those areas of interest to entrepreneurs. Think of education, the tax burden, the regulatory burden that some of you asked for and the way in which we implement energy and climate policy, which is, of course, a very important issue. Not to be less ambitious, but to always keep in touch with the reality of entrepreneurs and the reality that there is competition between countries in business plans and investment plans. In that sense, I'm also going through a bit of a circle. I am now to my great joy again with many companies around the table, big and small. At the beginning of my career, when I was a banker, so did I. In both roles, it has not changed that companies use lists in investment decisions. When asking whether a factory comes in the Netherlands, Germany or Belgium, there are always lists. These include the combination of quality of education, the rule of law, the tax burden, the quality of infrastructure. And since it's always on the basis of lists, you have to ask the question, with every measure you have in mind, whether it's specific in the field of economic affairs or one of the other departments: does this affect the question whether this new plant for hydrogen, biofuel, aluminum or steel comes into the Netherlands or just across the border? This is a truly continuous task, and we take it very seriously in the case of Economic Affairs. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction I come to the cubes. The first block will indeed be the economic consequences of the measures just announced. Then there are the questions relating to labour market and labour market shortages, which many of you raised. Then there are the questions relating to the sustainability of industry. In the wider area of economy and climate, Mr Yeşilgöz will go into; I will do this part. Then there are the questions of innovation, including space. Finally, the questions relating to the Growth Fund. First of all, the renewed corona measures announced yesterday. Mr Van Haga also asked in the event of interruption whether there is a calculation of the costs, i.e. direct costs, but possibly also turnover consequences of introducing a corona access card in those sectors where this was not yet the case. the enlargements. There's no precise calculation of that. I doubt you can make it. Before the measures were brought out, I myself have been in contact. Of course, there has also been extensive official contact with the sectors concerned, which indicate costs to be expected. There is no precise calculation of this and is probably very difficult to make. For those sectors where there is currently no possibility of obtaining a corona ticket, there will be legislation towards the Chamber, at least if we find that there is reason to do so next Friday. In dealing with this legislation, your Chamber and the sectors concerned will, of course, play the role that should be played. The practical consequences of such an introduction can then be discussed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	Well, I'm a little surprised. At the 620,000 years of life negative and 100,000 positive it was estimated fairly accurately. You can never make a very precise calculation, but I find it strange that if you ask for a QR code at work, you can't estimate: how much is it going to produce less infections on the one hand? Well, that's what the VWS Department can do. But the Ministry of EZK must be able to determine: so many hours of work are lost or not. You've got to figure that out in advance. The same applies to the gyms. There has to be an estimate: so many people do less sports, and that has a certain impact on public health. I assume that there is a certain desire to make that calculation or at least an estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have already indicated that, when dealing with the laws, it is possible to go into more detail about expected effects. I am happy to see in Mr Van Haga's contribution that he does realize the limitations of modelling here. Trying to model what the effect is on life years of applying a CTB in the gyms, which seems like a nice graduation thesis for an economist, but it won't have great reality content. I've honestly been in the conversations... I don't want to take it off as if there's no point, but don't tell yourself you can model very sharply. Take, for example, the catering industry. That's what I've been talking about myself. The hospitality industry is faced with measures which they find quite understandable and which will undoubtedly stop some of the people. At the same time, the hospitality industry is facing enormous staff shortages. When I walk through the city, I see signs "people wanted" all over the place. Try to model which part of the disappointing turnover is the result of handling a CTB and which part is the result of the fact that when I'm in the hospitality industry, they say to me: we're closed on Mondays these days, because we don't have people anymore. You can't model that exact. I do not deny that there will be consequences. I'm not denying it's just annoying. No one wants to take those measures. But you can never be very precise in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	It threatens to become a debate on whether or not modelling makes sense. I'm a little surprised. When it comes to nitrogen, we have the most insane, disproved models that will make half of the peasantry disappear. At corona we are looking at every technical briefing on the RIVM models, which do not go far, yet also turn out to be a blow in the air and almost never come true. In this area... Take indeed the catering industry; 1.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry and we are going to do so anyway. So it was for a marginal effect. But the damage to the catering industry was enormous. Now we see another moment in the time when the cabinet takes certain decisions that are going to have a marginal effect. Then I would like to know: how big is this marginal effect? And I'd like to know what the damage is. Then we can get bogged down in a discussion about whether it makes sense to model; I think we should skip that step. Let's at least make an estimate, and then I have more confidence in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to make that estimate than in the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thanks again for that compliment. Again, when dealing with the specific legislation... No, for the catering industry not, there is existing legislation for that. For corona access cards workplaces, however, specific legislation is needed. We will, of course, try to identify the effects of this. Moreover, the sectors themselves will undoubtedly do the same. So we can put that next to each other. I have made the comments on how exactly you can calculate that. Our assessment is that these effects are not such that the turnover of the sectors in question will be seriously affected. Mr Eerdmans and Mr Azarkan asked: do you intend to create additional aid packages on the basis of the measures now announced? No extra; there are a number of existing measures, which have also been discussed extensively with you, that go through: the specific measures for nighthoreca and events in the fourth quarter, the refund schemes and the tax payment scheme. Arrangements around government-supported lending are ongoing. The transition support, for example the retraining packages we announced in the fourth quarter measures, will also continue in 2022. However, we do not intend to create specific new packages under these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally. So the minister says: it's the Ministry's assessment that companies aren't really affected when the QR pass is introduced into the workplace. That's a statement. I would like to see the basis for that. Can I see this as a commitment that if we really go so far as to make that QR pass mandatory or if it is introduced for the workplace, at least an estimate from the Ministry of Economic Affairs will be made to see what this will mean in terms of missed working hours? Not so much in order to determine the aid, but in order to assess whether that measure makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	I've already indicated that this requires a change of law. So there will indeed be a basis, to the best of our ability. Then we need to look into the debate to see if that "best ability" is enough to convince the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	Then I have completed the block on the measures announced yesterday and their economic impact, and I am going to look at the questions raised about the labour market and the shortage of technicians. Mr Boucke, Mr Thijssen and Mr Amhaouch spoke about this. When you sit around the table with entrepreneurs, that's usually the first thing they put on the table. I usually do the conversations in such a way that I ask: I can ask you all kinds of questions, but what do you really want to discuss with me? Almost all of them start talking about staff. That is not just about technical staff, by the way. There, of course, the connection with the energy transition is very large, but it is really very wide. So there's a big job there. This was already the reason for the cabinet to present a really huge additional social package of 1.4 billion in 2020. When I went into the pieces in preparation, I asked if it was really 1.4 billion. That was really 1.4 billion. That is a very large amount of money which also underlines the urgency of labour market shortages felt by the cabinet. This includes, for example, retraining to ICT and technology, but also the wider use of employment services throughout the country and the measures announced at the beginning of the fourth quarter on corona. The question was: how do we ensure that the companies that suffer the damage and the workers who lose their jobs can be helped? Not for nothing was a very large part of these measures aimed at retraining and support. So we are very well aware of this broad labour market issue. Specific to the shortage of technicians there is the already existing Technics Pact, where there is cooperation between our Ministry, Social Affairs and OCW. That also makes sense, because they are the most concerned ministries. Among these there are a number of measures, ranging from investing in technical education to the regional linking of companies and educational institutions. It is a whole package of measures, some of which are specifically focused on the energy transition. Because some of them have been deployed quite recently, it is still difficult to assess what the effects are. Here again, I believe that we are often going to look back today and look back with a positive note. Mr Van Haga had a nice look at the role of engineers and then a large part of the room turned out to be engineers. Well, I may not, but I may have finished my beta exam. At that time there was also a campaign Choose exactly. That was a long time ago, of course, but it worked, because I remember that the technical universities in particular received very little influx at that time, especially very little influx from girls. In the meantime, you can see at the technical universities that the interest has increased enormously, including from girls. That underlines that you can achieve real effects with these types of campaigns. I think that the great challenge is to apply these kinds of good examples to all other places in education and society, but once again, there is a really large package of money and measures, and great involvement of entrepreneurs and educational institutions. Because indeed, we need all the people. Then there was a question from Mr Graus in a very different area. He asked if we have sufficient contact with small entrepreneurs, craft entrepreneurs. He specifically mentioned fairs and bakeries. A full-bodied yes. This is particularly true at official level, where our people are, of course, in constant contact with large and small companies. I have organised a number of meetings together with Mona Keijzer, which she did before my time, of course, in which we invited groups of SMEs. That was often virtual, by the way, but I also visited them. That was with that question: we can ask you all kinds of questions, but what do you really want The Hague to do for you? It is therefore quite right for Mr Graus to ask that question. I also think it is constantly the duty of the Ministry, including us as rulers, to seek that contact, but really, we are doing so in good faith. If you have any signals that that doesn't happen properly, give them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Amhaouch has a question and then Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	However, we are still going through the labour shortage: this is not only true for the technical sector, but it is also true for technical-practically trained people, who you need everywhere. Yes, we can look back on a number of positive developments: more people study, including in secondary schools, when it comes to fluorescent subjects. But they don't all land in those professions; a lot is still being lost. I see all kinds of business plans coming along, such as ten-point plans, but the urgency is very high and transcends politics. If we do not force a substantial breakthrough here, we must adjust our ambitions. That's how bad it is. It is said by a large majority in this Chamber that the climate transition is very important. But there really needs to be a breakthrough in terms of technical-practical skills, despite the positive signals on this point. Otherwise, we will be discussing whether to change our ambitions. That's how close it is, and that's how important I want to make it for the relevant ministries. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	I know very well what Mr Amhaouch says, that many people with technical training at different levels often end up in other professions. They could even end up in the Lower House. It's part of a free country that people can make that choice. But there I am equally critical of employers: we do not have national wage tables or working conditions tables in the Netherlands. Ensuring that there is good or rather excellent education that enables people to participate in our complex society is, of course, a public task. Next, making sure those people want to work with you and stay with you is a task of individual employers that I can't take over from them. This is often partly a matter of salary, but often also partly of growth opportunities and feeling appreciated. As much as I consider companies and entrepreneurs to be high, I also began my speech with my natural tendency to cut very sharply who was responsible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	Of course, business itself is involved. That battle is indeed about whether you are a good entrepreneur for your employees. No one is going to work in a company where working conditions, environment or product are outdated and offer no future prospects. Young people are not going to work in an old industry either. But there is a private-public responsibility to achieve our societal goals. That's where we're gonna have to pull together and not say, "You're responsible for this and you're responsible for it." No, there's got to be a plan. I would like to steer a plan that is supported by the public sector, public authorities and business. Then we can say: if we do this, then together we expect the right outcome. Is that a 100% outcome? We don't know. But we'll stick to the implementation of those points. That's where I want to go. The Ministry of EZK feels the pain. We have had a lot of discussion about the Technics Pact, in which OCW is involved very well, and also Social Affairs very well, but now it is up to EZK to take control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	Yeah, we like to pick up that glove. That is not just theory; I have just given examples of the way in which we have used retraining in the most recent aid packages. I remember the debate on the last aid package, in which I mentioned examples of sectors where I have to say, however sad, that they will probably have to deal with less turnover for a long time to come. Far-away trips were discussed, but also incoming tourism. I really prefer that we retrain people to, for example, installation technician than we pay them to leave them at home, hoping that in two or three years' time the tourists will come back. So I very much agree with you, to which you can also address once again the EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	Then Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you for keeping the Minister in touch at least. What strikes me is... That's why I specifically mentioned the fairgrounds. They provide affordable entertainment for everyone, including for Jan with the hat, as opposed to those expensive amusement parks, which not everyone can afford. We sometimes forget that these bakeries... That word is not meant to be derogatory, but it is always about "the bakery on the corner" from childhood. That's what it's called. They provide a primary need for life. I'm really worried. I have been a Member of Parliament for 15 years so far, and I hope to be able to do so for a while. I suddenly got a message from the baker's foreman. He said, "I want to talk to you." Then I think something is wrong, because I haven't heard those people for 15 years. I am very concerned, even though this is more on the plate of my colleague Kops, who is already committed to this. How can those bakers, who have a very high energy bill through their ovens, pay it in a minute? The bread and everything they make is a primary need for life. That's nutritious and healthy. That's a primary need for life. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to it, even now and also on behalf of my colleague Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	First of all, the point of substance: the rise in energy prices. Of course, the measures announced by the cabinet through the energy tax also provide relief for SMEs. Once again, as we pointed out at the presentation, I do not want to give the impression that we can eliminate all the cost increases. However, energy-intensive SMEs will benefit significantly from this. Moreover, I do not want to hide the fact that energy prices are then partly reflected in a higher price of products, including bread. I do not see Mr Azarkan right now, but that is one of the driving forces behind inflation. Then there's the point about the contacts. The trade association and its chairman are, of course, very welcome. I don't want to hide the fact that I usually start my weekend at the local bakery in Enkhuizen on Saturday morning at 06:30. The dogs have to get out anyway, so I can hear on the spot about the sweetness and suffering in Enkhuizen and specifically with the bakers. But it's not about personal anecdotes. Entrepreneurs are welcome. Then I get to the point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Thijssen also has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	... of the sustainability of industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Thijssen has another question about the labour market, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yes, because to make industry more sustainable, we need more technical staff. I hear there's 1.4 billion and a Tech Pact. That's all wonderful, but in the meantime, there's a huge shortage. Meanwhile, we hear from Alliander that they have to choose: do we join a supermarket, a windmill or a residential area? We can talk to the Minister about this, so I'd be happy to do that. We have the Technics Pact and 1.4 billion, but we still have a huge deficit. So what's the Minister's analysis? Why is there a shortage? What does the Minister need to ensure that we get a lot more technical staff? Because I have the feeling that the minister is pointing a little too easily at the companies. They should ensure that people stay there, but those companies are not responsible for the CO reduction. The government, your colleague, the Secretary of State, is responsible for that. If there aren't enough hands, we're not gonna make that CO reduction. I still get the idea that CO reduction is apparently not a top priority of this cabinet. So I'd like to hear a little more reflection on why the Technics Pact doesn't work and why that 1.4 billion isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	There are a lot of announcements in this interruption by Mr Thijssen asking for some nuance. I spoke about the division of roles between the government and the employers, because Mr Amhaouch asked me to comment on the fact that many technicians are leaving the sector. I responded by saying that I look at the employers and I think that will surprise no one and say: you recruit people who are well trained, but then they leave. It's hard to put that in the government. At the same time, I have indicated that I think it is a crucial government responsibility to ensure good, even excellent, education, which is also focused on precise subjects. I have also indicated that I am happy to see success, but that the problems have not been solved. That is why the huge 1.4 billion package, and within it the Technics Pact, was created. I also indicated that the 2020 package did come into force last year, but we cannot yet see its precise effects. I just can't give it to you yet. I also think that we should be realistic that we can also say more broadly throughout the Western world: we see great demand for technically skilled people throughout the world, and that you actually see shortages everywhere. So I am not going to say that, thanks to our measures, there will suddenly be a Netherlands without deficits. Then I'm gonna go back to graduation. There was a part that did beta, a part that did alpha and usually a large group in between. But it really wasn't that you could make sure everyone in that graduation class got an 8 for physics and chemistry and math. The talents are also, as the mathematicians would say, divided according to a gauss curve. So you can try to help as many people as possible to one side of the gauss curve and to cherish the talents. But just as not everyone can become top footballer, not everyone who gets 7 or 8 for math 2 will either. In short, yes, great efforts are being made, and yes, I feel responsible for that. This is also evident from the great effort. But that always happens together with companies, who also have to ensure that they are attractive employers. Then to the sustainability of industry. I would first like to make a general reflection on the division of roles and then answer a number of specific questions. Some of the contributions suggested, at least, that millions of public money would go to business or the large industry, without any obligation to produce results. Mrs Teunissen was quite specific about this, among other things. I'm a little surprised about that reflection, because it just isn't. By far the largest flow of money from government to companies under climate policy runs through the SDE++. You are all well aware of this and it is based entirely on results. It's also a very competitive arrangement. Only the projects with the most contribution to the reduction of CO emissions will receive money. The other schemes that exist are really, with all due respect, small beer in financial terms compared to the SDE++ scheme. They also have results obligations, of course, but they are generally more focused on R&D. There is an announcement in the area of infrastructure. The Secretary of State will go into that more closely. By its very nature, you can calculate rates..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But the thesis that a lot of money goes to companies without linking a result obligation is really wrong. I'd like to take that off the air. Mr Van der Lee suggested setting up a climate obligation for companies in addition to existing obligations. That confuses me a little, because there are very strong existing obligations. There is, of course, the levy, but industry is also the only sector with a legally defined reduction obligation. So I'm just puzzled what should be stacked on top of it now. Mrs Teunissen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr. Van der Lee is going to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	Perhaps it is a good thing that I first mention Mrs Teunissen, who, if I understood correctly, wanted a tightening up of that. She asked if we could introduce a specific obligation for multinationals. I do not see why we should introduce different rules for multinationals here than for other companies. The undertone is a bit that it would not be good to be multinational. I myself was a bit of a deputy pride when I read that The Vegetarian Butcher has become a multinational. I think: well, a good Dutch initiative that can now be spread around the world. I live in an environment with top seed breeding companies. They make a huge contribution to combating hunger and malnutrition in the world. Some are still in the hands of Dutch families, and by the way multinational, because otherwise you cannot be active in seed breeding, because you have to have branches in every climate area. Some of them are listed on the stock market. I think it's all fine, and I think it's especially important that they create the very best tomato seeds and spinach seeds and the most disease-resistant crops. Why would you blot out multinationals or apply separate regulations to them, which would also be contrary to the principle of legal equality? Mr. Chairman. So much for climate commitments for specific companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	The Minister has already said a lot about this, so there is a lot to respond to. But let me try to be brief, to be at the service of the chairman. I do not deny at all that there is already reciprocity in the agreements that exist. I note, however, that enforcement has been an issue in the energy saving obligation for years. It is being tightened up, but the agreements and promises made in the energy agreement are not being delivered. We are lagging behind the goals that have been expressed there. This reciprocity is also clear in the SDE. You only get money if you actually produce renewable energy or reduce CO in the future. But we are now having a discussion about green industrial policy, with customization on clusters and with large additional infrastructure investments. When it comes to hydrogen backbone, they primarily benefit industry. My concern is that there will be insufficient reciprocity in all the additional resources needed for this. That will be public resources, especially at the beginning. Can the government promise that any additional measure taken will secure reciprocity? By this climate obligation, I mean at least the obligation for every company to draw up a plan which states how it will be climate neutral by 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	First of all, I think it is right that we should discuss further how we are shaping this reciprocity. Mr Van der Lee and I share the view that this is by far the largest arrangement, the SDE. Mr Van der Lee is also right to say that the maintenance of the energy saving obligation has been unsatisfactory. That is a reason for the cabinet to make additional resources and people available. Then there are the additional instruments. I have just described in a very rough way that they are more financially limited compared to the SDE. Part of this is a number of innovation-related instruments. In addition, we must, of course, show with you and with society what we will get for that money. I agree. Where there are extra plans and investments, it is right that you discuss with each other exactly what you get in return. This will, of course, also take place when discussing the specific underlying measure. I only point out that infrastructure is generally a collective asset, of which you cannot calculate exactly where the benefits fall. I assume that there are economists in the room, apart from engineers, who know the concept of "collective good." You can charge a fare on it. That's what we need to do. But calculating exactly where the advantage falls, whether it's from a road, from a railway line or from a pipe pipe, is very rarely possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	In general, that is a justified remark, but we are now talking, for example, about the backbone infrastructure for hydrogen. My party and, in my view, other parties feel that it is crucial to green the industry, because in megatons there are the biggest hits in the short term. This infrastructure is therefore given priority. It is mainly for the benefit of industry. This is not intended for the consumer, especially in the short term. In general, therefore, your statement is correct, but not with regard to the choices we are now preparing for. It must guarantee that reciprocity. There is one other argument. As the Netherlands, we have a unique position. We face huge challenges, but as a collection we can borrow a lot of capital very cheaply. It is not wise to immediately translate that into tariffs for users, because everyone stands for a huge investment. It is better for us as a State, as a collectivity, to arrange that collectively. But we must ensure that reciprocity is not lost and that industry pays a fair price in the end. So far, this has not been achieved in policy, and this undermines acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	Period. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	I agree that the costs of this infrastructure should be borne by the companies that use them. So, as far as I am concerned, reciprocity falls on the mat every month. This can be done very well with a hydrogen line or a CO line. The reason why you see, however, that a post of collective money has been taken up is first of all that no one is going to build these pipes in an environment as uncertain as we are dealing with today. If someone does not know in advance that these pipes will be fully exploited, the famous flood risk, it will require an investment in advance, which will eventually be recouped from those tariffs with a good chance. In my view, the precise design of these rates and the shares interest in them is a business sum. We don't have to work it out in detail here. On top of that, if you want to decide in advance which company will benefit from it, I think you are imposing yourself a very difficult task. The fact that collective investment is needed to build such a network indicates that at the moment you have no firm certainty as to who is going to use it to what extent. Well, I don't think the difference between Mr Van der Lee and me is very big either. Because once again, the cabinet thinks and I think you should just charge for this kind of infrastructure. Normally, you just end up seeing investments again. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs Teunissen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	The Minister dismisses my plea for a reduction obligation for multinational companies as a'reconciliation of multinationals'. I'll leave those words with him. But that's distracting from the point I wanted to make. There are a lot of polluting companies at the moment. The Innovation Monitor 2021 shows that a lot of these companies still emit CO at the end of this century. This means that we are now moving towards a situation where these companies are doing far too little. If we do not take additional measures, we run the risk of global warming at 2.7 degrees Celsius. That would mean an unliving earth. This also reflects the scale and seriousness of this crisis. I therefore call for additional measures to tackle this pollution. Environmental defense didn't go to court for nothing. Milieudefensie has received a very clear ruling from the judge: Shell needs to reduce extra. My question to the Minister is: what does he think of the proposal not only for Shell but also for other multinational companies? We have to do something extra, don't we? If he does not support this reduction obligation, what is the Minister's proposal to ensure that there is an additional reduction in multinational companies that are still polluting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	First of all, why did I talk about multinational companies? Mrs Teunissen's reasoning would mean that a major polluter who is not multinationally active would not be covered by that obligation. This seems to me to be totally contrary to the equality of law, but it does not seem to me to be what Mrs Teunissen wants either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	It is a reduction obligation, indeed for all companies. However, it is logical that companies which pollute must take additional measures to comply with this reduction obligation. I think it's obvious. I don't see any legal inequality there. We treat every enterprise equally. But we are combating this pollution, and that is why we are introducing a reduction obligation. That has nothing to do with legal inequality. This has to do with an effective measure to tackle pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'm picking up an inconsistency. Mrs Teunissen says in the same interruption 'we treat all companies equally' and 'I want a specific measure for multinational companies'. It can't be both true at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	I think it's a little silly of the Minister. This reduction obligation, of course, relates to pollution. That is what matters to me: that large companies, multinational companies... Of course we also have measures for SMEs. Everyone has to reduce CO2, but we see that multinational companies that pollute a lot are currently doing far too little to make that transition. Then I propose a measure, a reduction obligation, on top of what we have on ETS and additional CO2 taxation in the Netherlands. That's all far too little. That shows the innovative monitor. Then I ask for an additional measure, a reduction obligation. That has nothing to do with legal inequality. This has to do with an additional measure to tackle this pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	I will go into the idea of the reduction obligation, because that is what Mr Van der Lee was talking about. Again, you cannot say: we treat all companies equally, but not the companies that are also active in several countries. Anyway, the idea is a reduction obligation for all companies. We are very specific about the table in the Cluster Energy Strategies. This is on top of the general functioning of European and national levies. In addition, the industry sector is subject to a reduction obligation in legislation. There's a whole package for that. For companies not covered by all these measures, we have an additional package, ranging from the effects of energy taxes and renewable energy taxation there to innovation incentives. So there's a whole package for that too. If you really ask each company to indicate how they want to get to zero, you inevitably get to the large numbers of hundreds of thousands of SMEs. I will also address all the questions I have been asked about how I want to keep the life of SMEs in order in terms of regulation. But let me move into the local bakery, as in Mr Graus' example. If I ask every baker, in Enkhuizen or The Hague or anywhere else, how it goes to zero, the baker will say: "I use electricity for my oven here. I sincerely hope that with its measures the government will ensure that electricity production in the Netherlands goes to zero, so that my oven can run on CO-free electricity." But to ask every baker in the Netherlands to make a plan for that, I don't think it's reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	It sounds reasonable what the minister says, but at the same time it is of course not so that... Look, the specific plan is of course up to the company itself. I'm just asking the government to come up with a duty. How that company then does that, of course, is up to the company itself. One more point about this inequality of law: all the countries participating in the Paris Agreement have committed themselves to that 1.5°C. Then it is also up to the Dutch government to comply. So the Minister actually says: "I find it a bit difficult to introduce such an extra measure. Let's just not live up to the Paris agreement"? Everyone has to comply with that agreement. We have that responsibility to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	The Netherlands must comply with the Paris Agreement by means of effective measures. If we were to follow Mrs Teunissen's proposal... I gave the example of that local baker, but you can fill in any small business for that. It will answer: I depend on how my electricity supply becomes CO-neutral. That is also the correct answer. And there is indeed a challenge for the Dutch government and the energy companies. But then it only adds stuff for that baker or those hundreds of thousands of other SMEs when we ask them to fill out a pile of forms about it? We're not going to emit less CO, are we? That's what we're gonna make people happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would like to philosophize about Mr Van der Lee's question on reciprocity. My main question would be: is the minister more an Anglo-Saxon thinker or a Rhineland-Palatinate thinker? That's what I'm talking about. We now have a whole debate on green industrial policy. There is, of course, a certain philosophy behind that. The CDA has come up with green industrial policy, with tailor-made agreements and reciprocity. I am glad that this kind of terminology is now widely used in the Chamber. But of course there is a philosophy behind it. We are now often talking about green industrial policy. I think it's good that we fill out what that means with each other. Reciprocity is, in my opinion, very important, so that a company has a license to operate and also does something in return for society. I think it's about the role of the government, too. For example, do you accept a larger public role through state participations? Do you think the government should take more direction, for example in cherishing certain sectors? We've had a recent debate on Tata Steel. I have also submitted a number of written questions, for example on why the deal with SSAB has been canceled. The Minister then says: I am not going to actively mediate in that. I'd say, why not? Why does the Netherlands not cherish certain industries? Why aren't we on top of that? That's what happened in the past. Isn't there too much Anglo-Saxon thinking with this minister, and isn't that a missed opportunity? Are we not getting there with the Rhineland-Palatinate thinking, with an active involvement of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	I do not know whether the often somewhat schematic characterization of Rhineland-Palatinate and Anglo-Saxon thinking is very helpful. I was trained in Leiden, Groningen and Paris. So that must be pretty Rhineland. To be honest, I have never worked or studied in Anglo-Saxon countries either. I think it's a very careless characterization. Apart from the Netherlands, there are also France and Germany, very different countries, and Switzerland, with yet another tradition. That doesn't help much. What does help is a sharp definition of the role of the government in the energy transition. That is the block we were working on, but Mr Bontenbal makes it wider when he talks about the role of government and business. In an earlier debate, I have already said that I think it is crucial that the government first of all regulates the collective provision of education here, as well as infrastructure, the tax environment and the rule of law........................................................................................................................................................................... The primary task of government must be excellent. That's really important. Every time I watch the Netherlands score on those parts on the lists. That, by the way, is why I said: we should not sit back. Other countries also score well. The government has a hugely important role as a regulator. So was the debate on Tata. I am in favour of clear rules, which may be strict, preferably in a European context, because we are dealing with the conference between countries. If we lay down those rules, we need to maintain the rücksichtslos. I don't care whether it's a multinational or a national company, big or small: I'm in favour of rücksichtslos maintaining. When cherishing businesses, my first reaction is yes. That was my introduction, too. I am really convinced that the enormous prosperity, happiness and health that we cherish in the Netherlands really, we are the villa district of the world based on centuries of entrepreneurship, which has to invent itself every day. However, part of entrepreneurship is a clear division of responsibility. Companies need to identify markets themselves and innovate themselves. That has also brought us this enormous progress. This is often done in cooperation with the government, universities, knowledge institutes and ministries. But everyone must know their place in it. Cherishing can be done in a good way by constantly sitting around the table, whether with the bakers, the multinationals or everyone else in between. But every now and then you have to say: but this is what you are about. That is why I said: if you employ well-trained technicians, you have to make sure that they want to stay. If a company is no longer able to compete, because the world has changed and they have failed to respond, then there is a moment for me when the government can't do anything anymore. I'd like to be clear about that. Moreover, because in the Netherlands, as in other countries, we have learned about the steel industry, it is very specific because it is an industrial sector with a history of nationalisations. which can also lead to laziness, to insufficient innovation, to lag behind. That's why you use the word "crusting"... I'm very much of cherishing in general economic sense and climate and from sitting directly around the table with larger and smaller companies. But I am also making it clear that there is also an end to cherishing because you need economic dynamism. In addition to this, we cannot allow taxpayers to pay for entrepreneurial risks or wrong choices that may have been made. So that calls for an accurate balance that you can't just catch in what you started out with, either Rhineland-Palatinate or Anglo-Saxon, because those are also far too gross concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	I can imagine, so I admit that. They are, of course, big container concepts, but there is also, of course, some kind of philosophy behind the role of the government. I can, of course, see a great deal of the role that the Minister has described. It is a clear division of roles, and so on, but if we look at a country such as Germany, which is also very active in its car industry, we see that other countries also cherish certain industries. You are talking about a number of industries in the Netherlands that are flourishing, but they are of course also built at a time when the government had a very active role. We still benefit from that. Take a sector like greenhouse horticulture. I think we can be very proud of that in the Netherlands. Worldwide, we export technology, knowledge and so on. What is wrong with saying as a Dutch government: that sector, we are good at it, that is important, and so we are helping them? That's what other countries do. Are we not far too right in the doctrine of the Minister's attitude, that very pure division of roles? I think active government intervention is indeed important, especially when we have an energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yes, this is a nice debate, precisely because of the examples mentioned by Mr Bontenbal. Germany is a respectable economic power with an impressive car industry. A huge employer and a source of innovation, but then we will talk about cherishing again. When it comes to the European debate on tightening emission standards for cars, you can see that the German government has played a role for a very long time which could be regarded as cherishing in Mr Bontenbal's words, but which is not so sensible from the point of view of climate and environmental policy. That's just an illustration of why I'm saying you have to be very precise. That's the heart of the Rhineland model. The car factories are on that river. I did not think, once again, that the commitment to the European debate was obvious. That is why the Netherlands did not choose it. Dare to choose your role as a government. Then the example of horticulture, specifically the greenhouse horticulture. That appeals to me very much. I already indicated that I live in an area that is very, very leading in it. But there is also a lot of specific policy for that sector. One room down the road is an entire minister who is specifically concerned with agriculture. And there are also regulations specifically for greenhouse horticulture in there, up to and including in the field of energy. So, yes, it is. But there may also be a time when we say, in the context of environmental policy or climate policy, or market development: you have to do this yourself, we are not for that. I think that's very healthy. By the way, as I know gardeners, they are ideally people who are used to operating internationally, in a very competitive environment, and they understand this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Bontenball. Try to keep it a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yes, but I actually like this debate. We often have debates in this Chamber which, I think, deal with a few minor issues. In my opinion, this is a very fundamental point: how do you adapt your economy? The Minister gives an example. I came up with the example of the automotive industry. The Minister is right to say that Germany has also used it to perhaps stop certain emission standards. Of course, you cannot take N=1 this whole debate... I do not think you can use that example to say that a green industrial policy with active government involvement, including sectors, cannot go hand in hand with strengthening earning power and an ambitious climate policy. I would ask the Minister to look a little bit more broadly than that, because you can certainly let it go together. This may not be the best example. When it comes to greenhouse horticulture, it is interesting that in recent years ministers of the VVD house have seen an increasing public role in the energy sector, for example, in the past. Gasunie has started heat. EBN is in the geothermal and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Bontenball, can you cut it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'm gonna finish up. While we have not even had a very big debate on this, it was the Liberal VVD ministers who saw much greater public involvement in the energy sector. Isn't that really a very good way of shaping exactly what I am saying, namely a very active government with a green industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	That's why I'm so attached to precision. Whether or not there is a debate on measures is, of course, up to the Chamber. But I recognise that measures have been taken in the field of energy with which the public authorities have become more involved, because the energy transition is a major task which, especially in the case of infrastructure, we had just had a whole debate on the issue of public procurement. When it comes to regulation, strict regulation, regulation applicable to everyone, the government has a role to play. I agree with you, but it requires precision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	Innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	Innovation. Mr Van Strien and Mr Boucke asked whether it was true that the space budget has fallen. The answer to that is yes, but. That has fallen, but that is because in 2019 it was decided to raise the funds for 2023 and 2024. In literary spheres this is the chronicle of, well, not the announced death but the announced budget cut, which is indeed taking place now. Because it concerns the financial years 2023 and 2024, I, as the outgoing minister, fit in with some modesty here, because that really has to be dealt with in new budgets. Also under the innovation chapter there was Mr Amhaouch's question about the sale of the High Tech Campus Eindhoven. By the way, written questions have also been asked about this. I thought all these points were answered in the replies, but I would like to raise it again. High Tech Campus Eindhoven is indeed a pearl, a reason for pride. All the compliments to the founders. It originated from the NatLab. Philips has opened it up to other companies and has independent it. This has indeed created a very fruitful breeding ground for innovation and entrepreneurship. It is therefore right that Mr Amhaouch should speak with great appreciation. Of course, Philips himself made a crucial decision about the ownership of the campus a few years ago, namely by selling it. In a free country, that's okay. I can't remember either. I already outlined that I've been in politics for a while. I think everyone found at the time: "Yes, boys, it's their property. It's a private company. They must have thought it through." From that moment on, of course, the new owner had the right to dispose of it; otherwise he would never buy it. Against that background, of course, we cannot prevent an owner from selling his property. Then I come straight back to Mr Bontenbal's question: what is the role of the government? The first is that we regularly sit down with the companies concerned in the context of contacts with large and small companies. Indeed, we heard of this intention last summer. Now we have also indicated in those talks that we would check whether there were national security risks. There is a legal basis for this. Then you get to perform. We indicated in the reply to the letters that we are still mapping together with the companies concerned whether there are specific functions that can be identified as safety functions. There is a legal basis for that. Other safety risks have not been identified there. Moreover, the companies that were located there at the table indicated that they did not have these concerns. This therefore led to no other conclusion than that the government looks closely at national security risks. We are. But after the sale by Philips a few years ago, of course, it is also true that such a campus is further the property of those who then took over. That's the answer to the question about the High Tech Campus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	I do not think we should dwell too much in the past. Philips sold that campus in 2012. That was almost ten years ago. Over the last ten years, there has been quite a public debate on the vital sectors and how technical innovation has been given an important role in our society. We have had a lot of discussions about the Americans against China with ASML in between and so on. Our question, which we have also asked in writing, is that the Minister says it has nothing to do with national security. This can be done according to the current instruments. Surely I would like to know from the Minister: how did this process take place in practice? Now it's a Singaporan state company. If it had been a Chinese state company, what instruments would the minister have had? Or would the minister have said: it remains with a real estate transaction. The Minister acknowledges in his reply that the High Tech Campus is crucial for the national economy, though. But it keeps talking a little bit with flour in the mouth. I don't have a clear picture. So if the Chinese had bought it, would we have acted the same way we did now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	As-dan questions are always complicated. As Mr Amhaouch knows, there is existing legislation that really relates specifically to national security. It would also be applied. I cannot predict the result in this case, because this is a hypothetical case. In addition, there is legislation on additional tests on the way. It already exists for some sectors, including telecoms. It could be a lead here. I can't say that in advance. Broader additional legislation has also been prepared by Secretary of State Keijzer at the time. I assume it will be dealt with in the Chamber in the near future. The current legislation provides the points of reference that I mention with regard to national security. I do not think that this new legislation will do that in the case of real estate. But that law is still under discussion, so at that point that discussion needs to be continued in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then we've arrived at the Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	The Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	That makes two guys jump right up. Who was first? Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	When we finish the piece of "innovation," I still have questions about Wetsus. I asked you about that status of TO2. You have also partially replied in writing. What is our surprise about this knowledge institution Wetsus? I am glad that you said: it is true that less than EUR 5 million is needed in funding. That's on a budget of over 260 million. However, I am just as curious whether you would also like to reflect on the fact that Wetsus will have to be phased out from next year if we do not get funding. I am therefore very curious to see how we can look at the way in which we can resolve this funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	In the written answer I first indicated that I naturally think that Wetsus is doing a wonderful job. I refer to the Dutch tradition of expertise in the field of water state. Nevertheless, I would like to point to Mr Van Haga: I may not be an engineer, but I am a son and grandson of hydraulic engineers, so that creates an obligation. Then back to Wetsus. The question here is whether structural funding is possible. From the beginning, it was known that there wasn't. But I really think that such a question is of a nature that should be dealt with by a missionary minister. I do not think it is entirely appropriate for me, as the outgoing minister, to take a decision on structural funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	I understand part of your reaction. On the other hand, we have had this conversation with each other more often, including about Wetsus. You say that you acknowledge the importance and that it also emerges from research. You also acknowledge that it is a very small amount in the overall budget. You also say: yes, it is true, it is temporary funding and it will end next year. I hear you speak fine words about innovation. Then my question to you is as follows, also in view of your status. You want to leave it to a missionary minister who is not yet here, when choices can now be made which, as far as I am concerned, are within reach. Do you not think that we should look here as a outgoing cabinet and chamber in order to get that funding? That view of a missionary minister, which we all need very much, is not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	Then I wonder what I'm gonna find out about this. I've been around formation tables in my life, but not now. If one of the participating parties says this, I'm worried. Let me hope, however, that the negotiations will be concluded successfully within a reasonable period of time. Once again, I appreciate what Wetsus is doing and I appreciate Mr De Jong's commitment, but I have to say in fact that a outgoing minister is not the right person to answer this structural funding question, which has indeed been asked for some time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr President, I hope you do not see this as an interruption and allow me to reflect for a moment. Indeed, Minister Blok has been at the formation table more often. I stand before you as a Member of Parliament, nothing more and nothing less. In this capacity, I ask you the question. I'm listening to your answer. That is not the answer I hope for, but that is what I will have to do, so thank you for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	I hope that I can satisfy Mr De Jong in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you very much to the Minister for the warm words at the beginning of my maiden speech and for once again underlining the cycle of life. This is my very first interruption, which I'd like to offer you. We have received answers to the written questions. We felt that we had asked ourselves a very good question, namely whether EZK would like to be involved in the development of a campus strategy. You say in the answers that there is no need for that and that there is no reason for that, whereas we hear from the field that there is. A number of budding sprouts do not know which ministry to knock on in The Hague. Many of these campuses depend on regional funding, while they produce research and innovation that is of national importance. Where does the Minister see an opportunity for EZK to have that exciting role? It is also a compliment to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy that we are looking at him again to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	Again, I greatly appreciate the role played by the existing campuses. I can't rule out that you can apply this model to other places. In the knowledge agenda I thought that was the title of Minister Wiebes' offer, it is also addressed. But then, in parallel with what I said to Mr De Jong, I come back to the fact that I am normally speaking with you in a melancholy state because I will not be here in a few weeks. Also with this question, without having a financial claim, I am asked whether I want to fill in a long-term agenda, knowing that in a few weeks' time there will be another lady or gentleman here. I don't think that's entirely clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	Indeed, I see the parallel with the debate you had with Mr De Jong. But this is not a question of putting down a financial claim or a long-term strategy right now. In view of the importance of this and the budding sprouts that are emerging in the country, I would ask you to start with such a strategy to ensure that at least something is in place when a gentleman or lady arrives at the ministry, or gender-neutral, of course. It is therefore a question of starting a strategy of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	Yes. It is not, of course, the case that official thinking and writing is now standing still. The agenda there is, of course, being carried within the Ministry and leaving a number of questions open. Two of them are now, quite rightly, asking questions about Wetsus and the campus. I have some experience as a new minister. Then there are a lot of piles, but usually there is also a pile that is said: this really requires your attention. There are, by the way, a lot of them, but then you also have a stack where they say: this also has some urgency, at least if you come to the Chamber soon. So, yeah, it's on that pile. A successor is certainly fed by the Ministry, but again, the decision is really up to that missionary successor, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to join the Growth Fund. A number of questions have been raised in the debate, which I will deal with in a moment. In the public debate, in press articles, I have, of course, also seen some disappointment, not so much in the projects and the people involved who have received the funds, but a broader disappointment about the commitment and the size. I hope to put some relativity into that. I remember very well that Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes came into the cabinet with the first thoughts on the Growth Fund. That was a real breakthrough. I've been in the cabinet for a long time at a time when every euro was turned around. That was often with bleeding heart, because colleagues and I thought: there are real investments that we would really like to make, but the financial space for that is not there. Fortunately, as a result of the stoic work of the Dutch and the sensible financial policy, we quickly returned to a financially sound position and so there was room for an investment fund. I liked and liked that very much. I'm happy with it to this day. 20 billion is and remains a large amount. I was Foreign Minister at the time and was surprised by my French colleagues that these thrifty Dutchmen had set up an investment fund of 20 billion. 20 billion for a five-year term now envisaged means that you don't have to be an engineer for that. You don't have to be an engineer for that. The sum of direct awards, reservations or conditional awards is that 4 billion. So the picture that almost nothing was paid out doesn't make any sense anyway. If I then look at the way it is spent, it is indeed to the type of projects that, condition one, contributes to the future earning capacity of the Netherlands, but is also very innovative and contributes to the important tasks that the Netherlands stands for. The first awards include important topics such as hydrogen, which we have talked about before today, quantum technology, really a huge breakthrough technology that the Netherlands has fantastic scientists and entrepreneurs on, and regenerative medicine. The assignments and reservations are in line with the objective pursued. The fact that the Netherlands is fortunately such a breeding ground of talent and entrepreneurship means that you can make a lot less people happy than you have to leave disappointed, even if I look now I've just been informed about the large amount of proposals. I'm so impressed. I am also sure that we will have to disappoint more people than we can make happy. But please do not create an atmosphere that the Growth Fund is not being used, because it is being used, or that it does not contribute. The projects that can be done underneath, I really think are fantastic. There was a question from Mr De Jong and I also thought of others: isn't money being paid here that could have been provided from other sources? Really convinced no to that. Of course, people with good ideas often report to multiple points of contact, especially in an exploratory phase. Unfortunately, the reality is that you have often been told no. This certainly applies to the type of projects that will eventually be notified to the Growth Fund. They are very innovative, so the outcome can generally not be predicted in advance. The history of progress in the world is that a widely sorted bouquet of innovative and bold ideas always leads to some real breakthroughs. So no, it's not like the Growth Fund is funding things that otherwise would have gotten money. Mr Van der Lee asks whether there is enough going into the energy transition. That's one of the key issues. I just mentioned the example of hydrogen that was in here. It is not the only task, but there is now a significant part of the energy transition in the concrete allocations. Of the current investment applications, a great many are focused on the energy transition. It is of course up to Mr Dijsselbloem and his people to make the final choice, but there is enough on the table, related to the energy transition. Mr Van Strien asked whether the Heinen motion on the link to the growth strategy was being implemented in the payments from the Growth Fund and its monitoring. That is certainly the case. We will, of course, include you in the annual reports. Volt also had a question as to whether this money could really not be found elsewhere, but I answered it. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I hope to have answered the questions put to me in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	I'm gonna take a look at my colleagues and see if they are. I see Mr De Jong. Mr Graus also has a question. First Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	It is a list, but secretly I have the hope that the Minister will come back to it, even with the piece of motions, because there are two motions and there were also questions about them. I miss the part of the Growth Fund which I personally asked you to do: do you also think that things can be done differently or better with the Growth Fund? You must agree with me that together we can see that we are not yet allocating the resources we are aiming for. There are a number of arguments underneath that, but I am equally curious. Do you think that we are on the right track or do you think that things should be changed so that more projects can actually be financed from the Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	There is no doubt that things can always be different or better, but we agreed to evaluate the Growth Fund next year. I think that's very sensible. I want to be careful to make final judgments on the basis of a first round. I agree with Mr De Jong that we must always remain critical of whether things can be done differently and better, but this will be done in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	I take it for granted that the Minister will take the question about making business more sustainable and helping to do so with the response of my proposals to motions for resolutions. If not, I would like to ask you to look at the questions that are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	Officially, I don't know any motions yet, but I'm not entirely surprised if there were any. Then I'll respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think that's the right order. Then there is Mr Graus and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	In my first term, I had asked the Netherlands to deposit the remaining funds of the Crafts Capital Company with SMEs. SMEs The Netherlands represents more than 20,000 artisans, as I understand it. Some of my questions have been answered in writing. That's what I'm saying for the people at home who think, "What's he talking about?" HandbachtNederland represents just over a hundred of them. So why are the remaining funds not being deposited with SMEs in the Netherlands? At the time, the remaining funds of the Main Company Retailers were also deposited with a partnership of SMEs in the Netherlands. Why isn't that happening now? Otherwise, I will indeed have to table a motion to that effect. That's why I'm trying to get a commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	The question has been answered in writing and I really need the information. I would like to come back to that in the second term and then give a precise answer to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'll take a look at Mr. Graus. Is that okay? Yes. We'll get back to that. Then Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	In my first term, I had another question about the data governance regulation and preventing large tech companies from including consumers, precisely because they can pool data services. In the written reply, I read that the Cabinet supports the scope of the Council position and the neutrality obligation, specifically aimed at services that have the main purpose of sharing data, and that the Cabinet shares the interest that pooling of services by data intermediaries should not lead to lock-in for consumers or businesses. But isn't it the case, if we look at the data governance regulation in this way, that large tech companies are not going to be covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	I believe that the regulation is aimed precisely at the big players, with a possibility for smaller players to have more space. So it is not clear to me why Mr Dassen is concerned that the big ones would not be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	The problem is that it focuses on services that have the main objective of data sharing. It is precisely in this main objective that the problem arises, because that narrows this regulation so much that large tech companies fall out of it. If the cabinet says it shares the concern of the lock-in for consumers, then you should look at it in a different way: if you say that the main objective for large tech companies is clearly not to exploit data markets, they will not be covered by that regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	This regulation has been under discussion for some time and is, in my view, at the trilogue stage: the discussion between the Commission, the President and the European Parliament. I was not involved in this directive, but I was involved in a number of directives. In the end, of course, it is always a very legal discussion about what is the reality behind the words. There are now undoubtedly expensive lawyers again who are going to try to prove that large tech companies are not covered by this definition. Lawyers in Brussels will indicate that they are covered. I'm afraid we can't solve that entirely here. The reality is that with these kinds of directives, an apartment building is going to make a lot of money trying to find out exactly who is or isn't covered. But since it's text, you really can't completely brick it up. I suspect that lawyers are now submitting other text proposals here too, but it is too late, even in the course of the discussion of that directive, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	This is precisely the concern of the European Parliament. It is also the position of the European Parliament. So I think it's just part of the discussion that's taking place right now. That's why I'm bringing it up. Could the Minister perhaps promise me that the regulation will be structured in such a way that only the business activities that monitor the provision of data markets by companies will be regulated in the regulation, so that at least the large tech companies will remain covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	This is a bit of a weird division of roles. There's a trilogue going on right now. In short, the European Parliament is the move. I don't. I am the Minister for Economic Affairs of a Member State. Now I get the question from the European Parliament whether I, who is not sitting at the table, want to settle something for the European Parliament, which is sitting at the table. That's a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	No. You will be asked by someone who is in the Lower House whether you wish to make a firm effort from the Council position to ensure that large tech companies are immediately covered by this regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	But I do not need to explain to Mr Dassen that he is a great European expert at what stage this negotiation is at. I am not sitting there, and the European Parliament, which apparently has this concern, is sitting there. Well, then I can't help but say that's a bit of a weird division of roles. I don't do that out of unwillingness. I honestly believe that Mr Dassen and I do not agree, but we are playing another game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	I am looking at Mr Amhaouch, who also has a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	I understand the Minister was all done with the questions in his cubes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	I want to go back, because I missed a bit about innovation. I think this is my last interruption. You always have one last interruption and one last interruption, but this is my last. It's about space travel. I do not want to make it a money debate directly, but I do have a question about positioning space technology versus key technology. In the written reply, the Minister states that space is not referred to as key technology, because it is defined somewhere. I've seen that whole list, but space travel is an enabling technology. What does this mean, then, politically? I think we recognise the importance of space technology, but what does this distinction mean politically? And how do we give substance to this? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	Yes, of course I did a crash course terminology Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate. Of course, there are other advantages to key technology than enabling technology, but I have to find out exactly which ones. I don't know if I failed the exam right now, but I'll come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's good. Then I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Strien on his maiden speech. Partly because of his words, we could all reflect on the great responsibility that we all have here to represent in this place the voice of the people at home and to defend the interests of all the Dutch. Our democracy, our rule of law and our freedom are not self-evident. It is up to us to take responsibility for cherishing this freedom and our way of life. We can't be reminded of that enough. I thank Mr Van Strien for this important message. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Lee here. In my years as a spokesperson and also from my present role, I have come to know Mr Van der Lee as a substantive and very involved Member of Parliament. That involvement may mean that he occasionally reacts a little more grumpy than is strictly necessary, but I'll get to that later. Even at those times, I must confess, I listen with great appreciation to Mr Van der Lee for the enormous responsibility he feels to work for the world around us. I think he called it "making everything of value resilient" on Tuesday. I can only respect that. So thank you very much and very much success at Finance. Of course, I would also like to welcome Mrs Kröger to our committee. Mr. Chairman. Before I go on with the content, let me dwell on the process. Mrs Leijten is not here at the moment, but I am sure she will hear this again. She was right to say that items were still coming in on the morning of the debate. I can't tell you how much I agree with her that's really annoying. I think that applies to every Member of Parliament. As Mrs Leijten said, this is virtually impossible for small groups. This particular piece was concerned with the careful preparation of spending plans. It took a lot of coordination. I would just like to say that, on our part, it was not laxity or an attitude of: it will be okay. It was worked very hard, but this was the maximum achievable at that time. I was a Member of Parliament myself not so long ago, I know how annoying this is. I would like to tell Mrs Leijten and all the other Members in the House that we will continue to do our best to produce documents in time and, after these remarks, we will certainly feel the need to do so. Mr. Chairman. For the first time since I've been in this Chamber on this side of the table, I haven't had any cubes, although of course I'm always very inspired by my minister. Normally, the committee does work with cubes. But we have a chance with the budget to answer a lot of questions in writing, no matter what we have done. I would also like to thank the officials who did this yesterday and last night. I would, of course, like to deal with a number of questions in my speech, but I do not work with cubes. Let's see how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	Surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	Yeah, I think so, too. Kind of exciting, but I'm sure it's gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. We're in the National Climate Week. We just had Climate Day. Monday was the day of the Climate Agreement. The international climate summit in Glasgow is going on. You can't open a newspaper, you can't turn on a transmitter, and it's about climate. Climate is the subject of our time, and I think quite rightly. We have all seen the misery that the people of Limburg have suffered from the floods and the terrible consequences, with deaths, for our neighbouring countries. Science is clear: climate change is going extremely fast and man is clearly the cause. In addition, the heavy rainfall that caused those floods last summer has become more likely due to this climate change. By taking responsibility now, we can ensure that we leave our country and the planet in a good way for generations after us, so that we have not only increased the risks. Several Members of Parliament who said that climate change does not end at our borders and that only a change in the Netherlands will not make a global difference are, of course, quite right. For example, Mr Eerdmans talked about China's emissions, compared to what we are doing here in the Netherlands. I understand these comments very well. Although a country such as China can and must do much more in this context, the fact that China has recently set stricter climate targets and plans not to co-finance coal plants abroad is a step in the right direction. I will go to Glasgow myself on Monday and I am encouraged by Mr Eerdmans and, of course, colleagues to continue calling on other countries to provide their fair share. The only way to get the rest of the world is to join forces with our neighbours, in our case Europe, as a small country. The way to get our neighbours, Europe, to join us is by showing ourselves that we are willing to do what is necessary. Luckily, we can do that. We see a common target of 55% in Europe, but we also see good cooperation between the countries. In this context, Mr Erkens had a question. He asked about the possibilities for joint hydrogen production in the North Sea with our neighbouring countries. I think Mr Erkens has a very good point. In the future, energy production in the North Sea will be strongly interlinked internationally. We are already working with the surrounding countries. This year, for example, Germany and Denmark are looking at the intentions for cooperation. The cabinet, together with Denmark, is investigating what an energy hub between several countries can look like. Hydrogen production is also part of this research. I expect this to be completed in December, and then, of course, the Chamber will be informed. That is what I am saying to Mr Erkens and to those Members who had questions about it. As promised earlier, I will also send a letter to your Chamber in December on the government's hydrogen plans, in which I will also address my vision for the market organisation for hydrogen. So that's what's coming. I will also deal with the way in which public interests are protected; that was also a question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	Glad to hear that the government is looking at large-scale hydrogen production in the North Sea, together with other countries. Do we also take this into account in the locations for wind at sea? In fact, I can imagine that this could lead to different choices from national ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	That's a good question. I shall come back to that when we talk about the North Sea and wind at sea. I have said it before, and perhaps I can repeat it here again, after which I will stop: when I started here as Secretary of State, I thought the North Sea was huge. Within two weeks I had to work on the D66 motion on the extension of 10 gigawatts at sea and I thought: no, the North Sea is not huge at all. We have already claimed it in many different ways or we have to take into account nature and ecology. We are also taking these aspects with us, and I will ensure that we also deal with them in the letter. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, action means action at both national, European and global levels. Today's budget debate is about what we can do and what we are doing as a country. Most people in our country really want to contribute to a cleaner future. They just need help, because most people don't have thousands of euros on the shelf to make their home more sustainable or to buy an electric car. Most small entrepreneurs don't have the money for an electric van. With, among other things, the 6.8 billion package last summer, we are helping households and small entrepreneurs. Of course, we are also doing this in other contexts, including the 3.2 billion we have been talking about recently. With that, we help people with their rising energy bill. Mr Thijssen rightly called for attention to be paid to the costs of climate policy. With him I share that we really need to keep an eye on the fact that everyone must be able to experience this transition. It is up to another cabinet to come up with additional climate plans, also within the framework of the European programme we discussed last week. It is therefore also up to the next cabinet to take a good look at what these supplementary plans mean for, for example, lower incomes and middle incomes, which Mr Thijssen rightly calls attention to. We're gonna see what we can and should do for that. Mr. Chairman. But people also want to see the big polluters take their fair share and are right. That is why, for example, in the Climate Agreement, we agreed that the distribution of storage of renewable energy, the part we all pay, is no longer fifty-fifty, 50% for households and 50% for businesses, but two-thirds for companies and one-third for households. We expect large investments from companies in this transition. We also expect them to comply with the legal obligations that these steps must ensure. If the industry does not reduce enough CO, there will be a CO levy. That is what we agreed with each other two years ago in the Climate Agreement. Every year, we take away rights at European level to emit greenhouse gases. The Minister has already discussed this in detail and a debate has just taken place on this subject. I understand that there will be questions about additional targeted tailor-made arrangements with the biggest exhibitors. As far as I am concerned, a next cabinet could take this into account in the new climate plans, because that is where the discussion is ideally taking place. We see that with all the measures we have taken so far in our country, we are moving step by step towards our own goal of 49% by 2030. We're not here yet; that's obvious. That's obvious. But I think it would be a huge missed opportunity if we did not consider what we have achieved so far. It is very easy to stare blindly at the hole and where you are not yet, but then we do all the people at home, the entrepreneurs, the scientists, the researchers, the technicians, the builders and so on, because those are the people who work hard every day to make sure that we get closer and closer to our goals. They ensure that we have a thriving economy while at the same time reducing CO emissions. They ensure that the old-fashioned view that economic growth cannot go hand in hand with climate policy is destroyed. Ambitious climate policy and a thriving economy that focuses on progress and innovation go hand in hand. Mr. Chairman. We are the land of Lightyear, a Dutch solar car. The first 1,000 of them will be built next year. We are the country of StoneCycling, an innovative SME that makes bricks out of construction waste. We are the country of Circular IQ software, which immediately shows companies how to do more sustainable business without sacrificing sales and margins. More than 600 organisations in 58 countries already use it. We are the country where 1.5 million households already have sun on the roof and that number continues to grow. We are the world's leading country in the cover to electric driving. There is no other country with the same density at charging points as the Netherlands. We are the country where the first windmill park is built at sea without subsidies. I can go on for a while, but we'll still be here tomorrow. These kinds of companies, initiatives and developments help us to bring climate goals closer every day. They're showing us how to do it. This is so much growth and so many opportunities, that we even have huge shortages of suitable people for the jobs. The Minister also discussed this in detail. I believe that this issue will also remain a focus of the new cabinet. It is crucial to be aware of people who see their jobs in the fossil sector change or disappear. Climate transition will have effects on the labour market. To map this well and anticipate it in time will also mean that we will gradually see whether measures such as a working guarantee fund are needed. That is what I am saying to Mr Thijssen, who had questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	Before you proceed, Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	It's a fluent argument, I can see. So I have to be on time. Look, we're also the land of the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	We worked on that together. Now I am not going to read out the entire opinion of the Council of State, which, by the way, I find very readable and full of very good recommendations. But I would just like to read out one sentence: "The government's missionary nature does not, in the opinion of the Section of the Council of State, relieve the cabinet of the duty to do what is necessary." The Council of State does not believe that what is necessary is not happening. Is the letter and spirit of the Climate Act being acted on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	I remember our joint talks and negotiations well. We have, along with many other parties here, worked hard on a climate law. Why was it so important? So that we could show not only ourselves, but also in the country towards the people at home and the business community: this is where we are going; this is our commitment and everyone should go that way. And if you look where we are now, we'll get close to what we agreed. But we're not there yet. That's what I just said. And I think the Council of State is really showing with the advice what the urgency is, that there's no time to sit back and think: well, we're missionary and it'll come sometime. So we didn't. Last summer, we also released almost EUR 7 billion for additional steps to show that there is no time to stand still. I know, at least I suspect, that Mr Van der Lee is about to say: that is nice, but more is needed. 'Cause he said that before. And I share that with him. But that is what I sincerely believe is about a new cabinet, and I also hope that it will be there very soon, so that we do not waste any time in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	I believe that in my first term, I also indicated that this additional money, which is 6.8 billion, is, for the most part, the closing of financial gaps in the Climate Agreement. It doesn't lead to additional CO reduction. There are many more points on which the Council of State points: we need to act on them now. If the cabinet does not distance itself from the choice made not to act in missionary phases, we see a problem in Dutch history. The formations take time and again longer. Soon we will lose several years in the period we have to achieve our goals, because we do not act in missionary status as the climate law is intended to prescribe. Is the Secretary of State prepared at this moment to say: this was once never again? A missionary cabinet is also held to comply with the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	I am going to miss Mr Van der Lee in the EZK committee and in plenary because he always or often approaches it from the content. It's good to do that again. It simply doesn't add up to what Mr Van der Lee says. Firstly, he asks whether the cabinet is prepared to distance itself from the attitude: we will not act. I was just telling you that we released EUR 7 billion two months ago, Mr President. It is a step in the right direction, but a new cabinet will have to do much more about it. I also hope that this is an important subject at the formation table. So we don't act, that's not true. There may be criticism of the way we act: one thinks it is too much, the other thinks it is too little, and another will focus on the content. Mr. Chairman. If we focus on the content, it is also not true that most of the package is only meant to close gaps in the Climate Agreement. We've provided a detailed overview. It shows that we are investing a few hundred million to actually continue the steps of the Climate Agreement, but subsidies are also being increased to ensure that houses are isolated and that people can easily buy an electric car. Additional investments are being made in infrastructure. The SDE pot is being raised so that more subsidies can be provided. The PBL has not yet been able to pass it on in detail. That makes sense, because we just filed it two months ago. But the planning agency also says: all in all it seems that this will yield some megatons. Why can't that be calculated very quickly now? Because it also depends on how these programmes are then rolled out and how many people sign up for such a grant, for example. We're gonna check that out. We are moving forward on our side. The planning agencies will keep a close eye on that and calculate it. I hope we can get those few megatons in together, too. And again, of course, a next cabinet has enough work to do for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr Thijssen, or Mrs Teunissen first? Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	Once again, I hear a glowing speech from the Secretary of State. She says we do a lot like the Netherlands and we go in the right direction. But there's just a report from the Council of State, which Mr Van der Lee just quoted. There's also an Urgendavonnis. And the cabinet just consistently doesn't comply with that Urgendavonnis. By 2021, emissions have already increased by 5 megatons. The Urgendavonnis says: we have to go down consistently. From 2020 onwards, there should be a continued 25% reduction. I still haven't seen any additional measures that the Secretary of State will be able to achieve. So these are all very nice words, but we do not meet the goals set. They have been established here by a majority. Of this the Party for Animals already says: they are not enough, when you look at what science says. But besides that, we don't meet the Urgendavonnis either. So how can the Secretary of State make a glowing speech here on the one hand and say "we're doing well" while on the other hand we're only getting reports and advice saying that we're not doing enough? There's a huge contradiction in that, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	I will come back to this later, but I would really like to invite Mrs Teunissen to at least listen to what I am saying and criticize her. I think that could help the debate. Last year, we probably made it to Urgendavonnis. In addition, we were helped by the wretched condition around corona. That is also in our own pieces and in the calculations. We were also helped to a large extent by all the measures we have already put in place, such as the closure of a coal power plant. Mrs Teunissen says: I haven't seen anything else this Secretary of State will do. Just before the summer, we had a wide-ranging debate in the First and Second Chambers on the limitation of coal production. That'll give a few more megatons. That's going to happen soon. That too is going to count in the short term. That is just a concrete law; let me put it to the vote. In addition, there is the 6.8 billion package. There are measures that will bring us closer to the CO reductions we need in the relatively short term and in a cost-effective way. I say constantly: I am optimistic when I see how fast things are going and what is already being done. But I am also realistic by saying that we are not yet there; we will have to work even harder on it, and I expect that from a new cabinet too. The exact wording is up to the new cabinet, but I think that if we look clearly at what is on the table, it is only fair that we can be optimistic that we are moving in the right direction and realistic that we are not yet there. Those are the two things I keep putting on the table. I would also appreciate it if we could talk about it that way. I'm not saying we're already here; we can just rest, because we've already done everything. That's about the opposite of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	It sounds a lot more nuanced now than when you started. At that time we were mainly told what has already happened, that there is 6.8 billion and that there are also a few megatons before 2030. The opinion of the Council of State states that in the worst case, you lack 25 megatons. That 6.8 billion is far from enough, because you have been sitting on your hands in this cabinet for four years. No, you have not sat on your hands; things have happened, but not nearly enough. You're not complying with the Climate Code. You don't stick to the Urgendavonnis. Next year there will be 19% reduction instead of 25%. So, yes, you've done things for the Urgendavonnis. But just be crystal clear to the Netherlands and to this Chamber and say: it's not nearly enough; I've done my stinking best as Secretary of State, and I've come a long way, but it's not nearly enough. And don't say as in the answer to Mr Van der Lee: well, we're going to get a few megatons and we're going in the right direction again. This is not a political trade in which the right wants a little less and the left wants a little more. This is climate science! We can't miss the targets, because the Netherlands is falling under. Can you just tell the honest story? I mean, "We've done a lot and sorry, the Netherlands, it hasn't been nearly enough. I also expect all Dutch people to stop for every red traffic light and not half of them and the other half not. When I get into a new cabinet, I'm going to do my stinking best to make sure the goals are achieved." I don't want half the story, not putting people to sleep. There's too much need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	I hear Mr Thijssen say: 'I want the honest story. I want the numbers. I want science." I'll tell them next. Last year we thought of 30% to 40% reduction in emissions. Now that the measures at the time have been passed on to the board, it is 38% and 48%. They are huge margins, which we will always have to deal with in climate policy, because we also depend on what winter it is and what happens around us. We all know that. That's what we've got to deal with. We're at 38% to 48% now. PBL, the scientists, says in the same report: there are still other plans on the shelf, apart from the 6.8 billion. Take, for example, the CO standards for buildings that are not intended for living, such as offices. If you add up all those plans, you'll end up at two to four megatons. And the 6.8 billion is going to add up to a few megatons. I would like to say quite frankly: that, of course, brings us closer and closer to that 49%. At the same time, from the beginning, I am constantly not putting a point in this whole story. I keep putting a comma through saying: at the same time we know that we are not there yet and that more is needed. I have a lot of confidence in a new cabinet that's gonna come up with plans like that. I have been hearing Mr Thijssen say more for a few weeks now, and I appreciate that very much, because that is what I think is very important. That's where this story comes in, where we're honest about what we've been delivering so far. That is not what Mr Thijssen and I did. That's what all these people and businesses in the country have done. All those researchers, builders and technicians did that. That's why I called them. Let us also bear that in mind and be pleased with what has happened there. At the same time, let us also mention what more needs to be done. That's what I'm trying to do here. Worst case scenario, it's that margin and that 25 megaton. At best, it's 2 to 3 megatons. I prefer to look at what else we can do, rather than staring at numbers and then telling people that it's all enough. That's not how I stand here. But I'm not saying we're already here. I think I made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's exactly the problem. You're the Secretary of State for Climate Change. He's got to stare blind on those numbers, too. The Supreme Court made it very clear in Urgenda's statement: start from the worst case. In that we are not already at 48% and we cannot say: with a megatonne we are at 49% and we make it. In the Urgenda ruling, you have to assume the worst case. In the worst case scenario, you'll have a 6% CO reduction deficit next year. Shut down all the coal plants. Then maybe you'll be lucky to make it. That's what the Supreme Court says. That's sticking to the ruling of the highest council in this country. In addition, I fully agree with the Secretary of State: let's praise everyone who already has solar panels on his roof. Let's praise everyone who's already isolated the house. Let's praise everyone who's already taken steps. But we also know that it takes much and much more from the cabinet to ensure that everyone can do so. So, no, I don't think you're telling the honest story. I think you're putting people to sleep, like, "Oh, we're working so hard and we're coming up with a whole end." Yeah, we're coming up with a whole end. A lot of people have done a lot. This cabinet should have done much and much and much more. That extra package of yours is just not nearly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	Shut down the coal power stations. That is what Mr Thijssen says. In addition, he says to me: just tell people the honest story. Then there are reports of, for example, TenneT. These are independent reports in which the following are examined. What if you shut down the coal power stations? What does that mean for security of supply? What does that mean for the Netherlands? That's not possible. I wonder what Mr Thijssen expects of me. Does he expect me to say: I propose that we form a dictatorship here and that we expropriate companies? Because in a democracy, you can't just shut down companies. But what if we decide now that we're a dictatorship and we're gonna expropriate? Then, for example, Brabant gets to sit in the dark. You might expect that as Ajacied, I don't think that's such a point, but I'm sorry about that. I am not just going to compromise the security of supply for a large part of the Netherlands. We need another coal power plant because of the legal obligation to burn residual streams. We have already closed a coal power plant, including in the context of the Urgendavonnis. There's a call for proposal for coal power plants that are voluntarily shut down. That can also be done within TenneT's calculations. So that's where we're gonna do the best we can. We have gone so far in a country like the Netherlands that a coal power plant has already been closed. One of them says, "I'll do it voluntarily." We're now calculating what that would mean. We've imposed a production restriction. What I'm saying isn't new, because this is what I shared with the Chamber. Once again, at the request of the Chamber, we looked at whether it could be even tighter. We can't do that without compromising that security of supply. By the way, just for the people who listen at home and perhaps do not know the whole list by heart: we already have a coal ban in 2030, so that's where we're already working. We're doing it as fast as we can for that part. That sounds like the fair story to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	So the next cabinet can't do anything extra, because you're doing everything you can, even though you just said the next cabinet is going to do more. Sorry, I'm not gonna let you put me in the mouth that I want Brabant to sit in the dark, because of course that's not true. There are countless reports that show how Urgenda can be achieved if the political will is there. So you're doing scare-making now, you're sitting in the dark and the PvdA would want you to. That's not true. The PvdA has a plan, unlike your party, for how we can actually ensure a much more far-reaching CO reduction in a fair and effective way, whereby the lamps can continue to burn and the factories can keep running. So I'd say take that plan to heart again. Take all the reports to heart with which you can get Urgenda and abide by the law. There's a reason he's here. Stick to the Supreme Court's ruling. The water is on the lips of the world and the Netherlands. We can't do this a little right; we have to do this all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	Now we're getting somewhere. I like that, too. Firstly, I share the urgency which Mr Thijssen is stressing here. I can even imagine that he is convinced that it is still necessary to lay it down with me. I would like to reiterate to Mr Thijssen, as I have done from the beginning that I am standing here, that I really share that urgency. I really do share that. That's what the cabinet really shares. I think we're showing, too, with everything we've shown in recent times, that we share it. And I still agree with Mr Thijssen when he says it should be done better. I just can't. That could be a new cabinet. That's why I'm referring to that. Mr Thijssen literally said: shut down the coal power stations. And that puts security of supply at risk. I believe that we are looking at the facts and what is going on in this debate, whether it is about Urgenda, 2030 or whatever targets you want to focus on. Then Mr Thijssen is right. There are reports, for example of Laura of Spirit, but there are many more, about possible measures that bring us closer to 2030, but perhaps also to 2050. We have therefore taken the measures that we could now take in a missionary status. That's the 6.8 billion package. But a new cabinet, and I assume the negotiators, will have all these reports and measures in mind. I'm not sitting at that table myself, but I can't imagine it going any different. I assume they're looking at what we can do in the Netherlands to get closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	Still at this point. The Secretary of State acknowledges that there is more feasible than what is happening in the current cabinet policy. In addition, it is mantra: affordable. Laura van Geest's report, cited by the Secretary of State, indicates that the sooner you reduce CO, the more affordable it is. Delays only make it more expensive. That is precisely the argument that a outgoing cabinet should also do what is necessary and not wait for another cabinet. My call was, "Get rid of that mantra." The Secretary of State must explain: we do not mean that we will not achieve the goals otherwise. This already indicates that the mantra puts the Netherlands on the wrong track, namely that only what the cabinet does would be feasible and affordable. While the scientists, the experts, indicate: the faster you are, the more affordable it gets and the faster you reach the goals. Why doesn't the Cabinet abandon that mantra?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'll come back to Mr. Van der Lee's points later on in the NRC interview he mentioned. Two things. Yeah, the moment you set things up earlier, it could be more cost-effective. A large number of these cases are also included in the 6.8 billion package. So that's where we've already taken it. A lot of other measures must also be seen much wider than just climate policy. It is up to a new cabinet to weigh that, as you know, in full. That is, of course, extremely important, especially if you want to take into account those elements that Mr Thijssen rightly asks for, namely what it means for the people at home and for the small entrepreneurs. In order to weigh that integrally, you need to be able to do it wider. We can't just do that here in the climate budget process. Nor have we done so in recent years. Then when it comes to the fact that there is more feasible than current climate policy. That is why I also referred to the various investigations and measures that lie ahead, which call for political choices on follow-up steps to be made by a new cabinet. If, at the end of the negotiations, we know exactly what the European objective is going to be and how it can be translated back into the Netherlands, and whether we are going to be 50%, 52% or 55%, or with which the new cabinet comes: I think this can be done. If I were in charge here on my own, I'd be able to figure out how I think I can. But of course it doesn't work that way in a democracy. A new cabinet needs to weigh that up as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	Government isn't just forward-looking. It is also, as far as I am concerned, looking back and learning from mistakes we have made. I've been in the Chamber for seven months. I have said in every debate with this Secretary of State: you are a missionary but climate change is not. I didn't just do that. I did this because I felt that we had to push the cabinet from the Chamber to take the measures to achieve the goals. Yes, I agree with the Secretary of State that the cabinet has moved. There is indeed a package of 6.8 billion. And yes, more needs to be done. It's not enough when we look at the numbers. I agree with the Secretary of State. But I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what she thinks of what has happened in recent years. I ask that question because I think we should do it differently in the years to come, if we feel that we have failed to do what is necessary. In recent years, a lot has been done, but does the Secretary of State agree with me that in 2015 when the first sentence was in place, and 2019, when the last sentence was in place, we should have done much more right away? Why? Firstly, to achieve the goals, and secondly, to get them even cheaper, which doesn't seem unimportant to me either. So I'm expecting a little reflection from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	That is, without Mr Boucke knowing, what the rest of my text would be about. Mr Boucke asks specifically about the past few years when it comes to measures and targets; the numbers, so to speak. I would also like to give a broad reflection, if I may. But I agree with him. Without having an evaluation of where it could be better, I do not think that is Mr Boucke's question either. I think it would probably have been better if you had gotten things smoother or earlier on the table. What is not true is not what Mr Boucke is saying, but that is how, at the time you put this on the table, the discussion often goes on and on is that we have stood still. That picture is being sketched, but we have not stood still all these years. Could it have been faster and better? No doubt. I would like to take a longer look at that with each other, to learn real lessons from it. I'm not ready to know exactly: well, in 2018 we could have done that and that better. Undoubtedly, it can even be done at that level. There are undoubtedly a lot of lessons to be learned. If this is indeed the biggest renovation our society is going to experience in our time, I think this is it, then it means, firstly, that it takes longer than one cabinet period and, secondly, that we are going to learn things gradually. A few years ago, we could not have expected to build the first wind farms at sea without subsidies. A few years ago, when I was a climate spokesperson, I went to visit Delft and several places to see how it should be if you wanted to convert and use gas pipes for hydrogen. I know people said to me, "Are you crazy or something? That is not possible at all, that is far from being the case." Well, we just cleared money for the first steps to convert existing gas lines for hydrogen. So the faster the developments go and the innovation goes, the faster we have to get back to it. Yeah, that's a huge pace. If you look back, I'm sure there are things you can learn from that that could have been better. So I am glad that we are constantly overtaken by the innovations and the thinking power of all those people outside this house who are doing so. That too is a fact. It's going much faster than we anticipated. Hence, among other things, the pressure on the nets. Those are all kinds of things that we will have to relate to in the years to come, because this major renovation does not take place overnight. And it doesn't go spotless either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	Thank you to the Secretary of State for this reflection. I'm glad to hear this, but now the next step, because we need to look to the future. History has shown that my party, as well as other parties here in this Chamber, had to draw very hard to an ambitious climate agenda and action. It took a while, but the State Secretary's party is already on a better track. Looking to the future, my question is to the Secretary of State to also keep her party in mind. 'Cause I said it in my first term, we're gonna need from left to right all the parties to get this renovation going. We don't have much time for that. So my request to the Secretary of State, please keep your party in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Boucke is absolutely right that we need everyone from the left to the right. We need everyone in the country. It would also be my wish that we should also bear this in mind in the debates that are to follow next, with whoever is in which place, and that we should remember that we all need each other. I said earlier: then I hope that we will also fill in the debates, as we are doing now, with facts, with what we stand for. And as far as I'm concerned, really less dogmas, less ideology, but what is needed to move our country forward? Then I am also convinced that we will soon see that it is not a story of the left or the right. If you look at science, at the facts, and then look at how we can move forward in such a way that everyone can experience it, that the jobs stay here, that our country also gets better, you might find each other faster than if you just stick to dogmas and ideology. That's not gonna help us anymore, and that's not gonna happen anyway. I want to move on, but I also see people threatening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	Threateningly not. Mrs Teunissen is still smiling. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr. Chairman. I think it's kind of funny that someone typifies me as threatening. I don't mean it like that at all. I don't want to look like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	No, Mr. Stoffer also stood up, so I wanted to make a funny joke, but that didn't quite work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State is hiding too much behind that missionary status. It's not like we didn't see it coming. Much too little has been done for a long time. The Secretary of State just quoted the report of Laura of Spirit himself. There are measures in it. Yes, these are far-reaching measures, but that is, of course, because the cabinet, successive Cabinets, all this time, have largely blown those reports into the wind. So there are measures such as shrinkage of livestock, inevitable to meet the climate targets. So I ask the Secretary of State: what is she going to say to the young people if we do not meet the climate targets now, which we are not doing now? What is she going to say about the fact that the state still stands for the rule of law, when we ourselves do not comply with the rule of law? She says: keep it feasible and affordable. But it will be unfeasible and priceless if we do not take the measures that we have long known should be taken. Does the Secretary of State therefore see the possibility of allowing this missionary status to be a little less important than the crisis we are currently in? I would ask her once again to come up with additional measures to ensure that we do meet that 1.5 degree. Now, if you look at the 6.8 billion, we still don't know how much CO2 reduction that's going to produce, even though we're already in a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	A little shorter, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yes. So I would like to ask: give some extra importance to meeting the rule of law and the crisis we are in. Well, I'd say you should take that missionary down a notch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	If we were to hide behind the fact that we are decommissioned, I would not have stood here before the summer to defend a law that would achieve a production restriction on coal. We would have said: a production restriction in a sector is so severe, that leaves you to a new cabinet. If we were to hide behind the fact that we are expelled, we certainly wouldn't have released nearly 7 billion for climate action, a large part of which come from the reports of Laura of Spirit. So there's no one moving things aside. We're just trying to figure out what to do while you're a missionary. A 7 billion-dollar package while you're a missionary is a hell of a lot. Fine if people think it should have been more and fine if people criticize the content, but I don't think anyone expected us to come up with a 7 billion package. I'm sure Mrs Teunissen doesn't mean it, but I'd like to record it here for the P.B.L. She says we still don't know how much the 6.8 billion is worth. The PBL cannot pass that on now, because we only submitted it two months ago. Just because we are not hiding behind the missionary, we went to work hard and said that we would come up with the Millions Note with additional measures. It's all been done recently. I do understand that the PBL then says it takes more time to figure it all out. It also depends on all kinds of things, for example how subsidies are rolled out and how many people are going to sign up for them. I hope we don't blame the planning agencies for not knowing that yet. They say, "A few megatons." I'm happy about that. I hope that we will get to the top of this'some' and that a new cabinet will come up with some nice additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	I actually went to get a cup of coffee, but now that the Secretary of State for the VVD finds the SGP in the area of climate a greater threat than the Party for the Animals, I cannot leave an interruption. It triggered me that the Secretary of State indicated that dogmas should be removed. I am actually very curious to see which dogmas she thinks are still there that need to be removed from the table in order to get this right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	There's a lot of them. I think we had a debate last week or the week before; I thought last week. There we had another discussion about a particular technique. Some parties said you can't use that technique anymore. Facts and research show that if you don't use the technique, for example, you're not going to achieve the goals in the built environment and that it's going to be much more expensive. Instead of having us look at the facts with each other, that was a call from Mr Bontenbal, apart from what everyone thinks... We all like it, me too. But then when you look at the facts, it's also a fact that I want to achieve the goals in a way that everyone can experience and what it takes, then you really have a different conversation than when we remain ideologically opposed to each other here. In itself, that is a good result, but it is not going to manage this big renovation, certainly not in a way that everyone in the Netherlands thinks: I am part of this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr. Stoffer is going to get a cup of coffee. The Secretary of State continues her speech. We're not going to have lunch for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the SGP is not known for cutting videos, because otherwise the sentence Mr Stoffer started with would not have been so beautiful. Mr. Chairman. I have a further comment from Mrs Leijten, who is undoubtedly looking back on this. She mentioned that it is extremely important that people can really be part of the decisions we make with each other. That has to do with what we were just talking about: this big renovation. Of course, you want people to feel like they're part of the solution, that it's not being poured over them and that they don't know how to contribute. It has to be the other way around: everyone is part of where we're going. It is extremely important that people, entrepreneurs and governments can jointly take control of this transition. That means talking along and deciding along, both nationally and locally. It also means that municipal councils should be set up to guide developments in their municipalities. These are all important elements of these regional energy strategies, to which Mrs Leijten referred. Very nice ways to really involve people are, for example, cooperative projects and other forms of financial participation. I know that there are many parties here, such as the Christian Union and other parties, which consider this to be very important. Take, for example, the search for 50% local ownership or the expansion of environmental funds. In addition, people benefit from subsidies, such as the netting scheme for sun on the roof and the Grant Scheme for Cooperative Energy generation. I call this all in order to balance the picture a little bit more that was outlined on Tuesday as if companies on all sides were getting free money without obligations and people are not being helped at all. I think it's a whole lot more nuanced and we should just do it together. It's not gonna work if we keep standing opposite each other and are more busy with who does or doesn't, instead of listening to what the other person really says. As I said, we have nice debates here, but I think the people at home are really falling apart. The basis for sound climate policy is therefore completely disappearing. Then it will be a difficult process where we will never take advantage of all the opportunities. Mr Van der Lee gave my interview in the NRC last Saturday. He said that I am committed to keeping our policies viable and affordable. I hope he didn't mean make it as unfeasible and priceless as possible. I'm watching over claiming higher goals, if at the same time we don't know how to achieve these goals. To Mr Van der Lee I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, art is not calling for a higher purpose. That's why I said the same thing in the paper. It wasn't a megalang interview. In that context, I say the same in that piece. We have a responsibility here to consider whether it is feasible in a way that everyone can experience at home. We must keep all the techniques on the table, do not drive away the companies with the jobs, endanger our security of life, and so on. And yes, we have over and over again debates in which motions are tabled in which the techniques we need to achieve our current goals are beaten out of our hands, or that an attempt is made to do so. I am talking about motions that say that we should not use CCS, that the CCS ceiling should not be raised, that biomass should not be allowed, that wind on land should not be good, that solar fields should no longer be allowed, that manure fermentation should not be excluded, and that the residual heat from biomass installations should not be considered renewable. Give it a few months and I can probably make this list longer. The truth, however, is that if we really want to achieve our goals, we don't have the luxury of excluding techniques. The truth is that it's not always going to be easy. It's not always going to be spotless. We're gonna have to help each other. I think the people at home deserve that we work together and we always have an eye for everyone, because everyone is part of this transition. They must be able to experience this change. We must be guided by facts and not by dogmas. I will repeat that not only today, but as long as I am Secretary of State. I really think it's gonna go wrong for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	I also like facts, but in the interview, the Secretary of State literally says that there are a lot of adopted motions that get out of hand techniques. That's just not right. All kinds of attempts are being made in every discussion to stop things, but most, even more so, are not being carried out at the moment. I mentioned two that were adopted, namely a motion for a specific phasing-out path for the use of a particular type of woody biomass and one on manure registers. They're not even being carried out yet. We have all this other discussion, but these techniques are simply open. They are available and used. In the case of nuclear energy, it is now possible for 12 years to apply for a nuclear power plant licence. It just won't happen. There are other reasons for that. Then be precise. Stick to the facts and do not use the tendency that we already have so strongly in this Chamber that it is only about imagery. In the imagery it is suggested, also by you, that techniques have been declared taboo, but that is not the case. The majority of this house didn't do that. That is why much more can be achieved than is currently the case. The mantra "feasible and affordable" suggests that this is not the case either. You are putting the Netherlands on the wrong track. By doing so, we undermine the basis of support rather than strengthening it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	I very much agree with the essence of Mr Van der Lee's story, even if he says: we need to be more focused on the imagery, but more on the facts. That's my story, too. Then he says: there is not even a phasing-out path for biomass yet. No, but that's because the Chamber has declared it controversial. I can't come up with a phase-out path for biomass. I don't know if there's anyone at home who's watching right now, having fun sipping, sticking to this and thinking: a exhaust path for biomass, I really like that. I don't know if people know what it's about. But what matters to me is that we really think about the facts. I have here a long list of motions that are submitted over and over again. When Mr Van der Lee says "be honest, they won't make it all," I say, "happily." But the whole point is that they could make it, because there are parties here, from left to right, who are constantly saying, "Fine, of which we are aware. Think of the targets. It's cost-effective. People at home should be able to experience it all, but we shouldn't be using these things anymore." I'll respond to that. I think it'll help us all. I have said in several places I like to do so here; that is also a call for myself... that it is really about the facts. I'm talking less dogmas and less imagery. I think that Mr Van der Lee and I can find each other on that in our last debate. I'm sure we would have found each other on that in the first debate. Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Van der Lee is right: climate policy is not a left or right issue. It's not something from the opposition or the coalition. It's not something young or old. It's a task for all of us. It is up to all of us to take responsibility for passing this country on well to the generations after us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	Before you go any further, I'd like to see how far along you are, also in view of the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	If the MPs think it's a brilliant story, I'll be done pretty soon. Because this is my last page.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	But if they don't find it, it could take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	We're gonna find out. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	I think this part can be pretty quick. I would like to dwell on the fact that we, as Dutch people, really know what it is like to have to fight the sea. Our years of fighting against the water have been won by the Delta Works, by laying dikes and by draining pieces of water. If there is a country that is ready to tackle this next task, then we are. We can't sit still. We have to continue to work like hell to reduce our CO emissions. At the same time, we must continue to adapt to these changing circumstances. That's what we saw last summer. As the Prime Minister said in Glasgow earlier this week, we can, too. That's in our Dutch DNA. As a small country, we have grown internationally. We can do that now. We can come up with solutions to the challenges that the whole world is struggling with. Mr. Chairman. It is not the only thing that has made the Netherlands strong. What has always made our country strong is that as a society and as a politically willing to finally compromise, to feel each other's pain and to help each other find the best solutions. That will also have to apply to climate change. Let's not make it a story of damnation and misery. Let's not say it doesn't exist. Let's work it out and make hope out of it. We can do that. Mr. Chairman. The questions put by the Court in the first period were either answered here or in writing. I see that in the Chamber almost all the questioners are looking for the best solutions. So I'm very hopeful. I can imagine that Mr Van der Lee wanted to dwell on today's treaty and on COP. I would like to respond to that. That might start lunch a little later, but it seems relevant enough to me to do so. I have two amendments that I can already respond to, but that can also be done in the second period. I'd like to hear what you think is best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	I think it's okay if you respond to that, too. If it eventually takes too long, then we'll just suspend and then we'll continue after lunch, so try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	Let me begin with Mr Van der Lee's question this morning. He says: why is the Netherlands not signing the statement at COP in Glasgow at the moment about stopping the financial incentives for fossil fuels? He is, by the way, making a fair reference to his own motion. So maybe I can start with that. The Van der Lee motion calls for a step-by-step reduction of the incentives for those fossil fuels. In response to this motion, the cabinet indicated its commitment to this. Financial incentives for fossil fuels do not ultimately fit in with the transition. We're not different in that. For the price formation of energy, including giving the right incentives, it is important to reduce fossil energy use. In response to Van der Lee's motion, the cabinet indicated its commitment to this in the forthcoming revision of the Energy Taxation Directive. So that is one of the important issues in the whole Fit for 55 section that we will also be working on. We see that there is a proposal from the European Commission to align taxation on energy products and electricity with EU energy and climate policy and to reduce the number of exemptions. I know that this is also a great wish of Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks and other parties. I hope that we have been able to make it clear in that BNC sheet how we are in it and that we also feel supported and pushed by Mr Van der Lee's motion. Now I come to that statement in Glasgow. We have not been able to support them, because this statement concerned a specific point, namely the end of direct public export support to fossil projects by the end of 2022. In May of this year, the current outgoing cabinet sent a reconnaissance to the House of Representatives with options on how the next cabinet can bring export credit insurance in line with Paris' climate goals, including the reduction of support for fossil projects. It was sent to the Chamber in May. This indicates that it is up to the next cabinet to determine the level of ambition for phasing out the support for export credit insurance for fossil transactions. So that's how we agreed in May. I think it went through the Minister of Finance, so that was agreed in that committee, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	That motion is three years old. It hasn't been followed for three years. It is linked to a discussion in Europe. The special thing is that one of our Member States, Italy, is now out. Italy, the media report, will sign that statement. Not only the United Kingdom, which initiated this, but also countries such as the United States and Canada have indicated that they are going to sign, while their goals are still far behind those of Europe. As far as export credit insurance is concerned, we have been calling for years not to give it for fossil. Don't do that! I think it is very unwise that with this excuse the Netherlands should withdraw from such an important statement, which sends a signal, globally, at the time it matters, at the Glasgow conference. So I call on the Cabinet to return to that and to sign that statement. Find allies. Increase the pressure in the Union to speed up the implementation of the Energy Regulation. Deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	I understand very well what Mr Van der Lee is saying. I'm afraid I'm not gonna make him very happy here right now. But perhaps I can indicate that we are not just leaning back here. On November 24th, this is the end of the year, but there we are almost already organising a second summit of the Export Finance for Future coalition. We're part of that. This is a leading group of countries that want to better integrate climate targets into export credit insurance. That is where concrete steps are being taken. We are organising this second summit on 24 November. In several ways, I think that shows our commitment to doing so, but I would like to do so internationally. The implementation of this is really up to a new cabinet. Hopefully that's just really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	This is my last interruption, so I am not going to debate content anymore, but I am asking a political question. We're talking about a new governance culture all the time. Is there an agreement in the coalition about this? Or is it free for the coalition parties to vote in favour of the motion that I am about to table in which the call is made to just sign that statement as the Netherlands? Is there such an agreement or is there room for coalition groups now in Rutte III and possibly in Rutte IV?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'm not in a position to dictate anything to the coalition groups. In fact, I'm not a Member of Parliament anymore. The Chamber has had this discussion, this debate especially with my colleague in the finance sector, so this is what I know about it. I'm not now insisting on the coalition spokesmen that they should do as I say. I've never done that before, and I wasn't going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u155	One time this cabinet is missionary and the other time it's missionary. You have released 6.8 billion in missionary status and taken all kinds of steps. But if it is said that it is not enough and that there really should have been more, you say: I am now expelled, so that should be the next one. Now Glasgow is a super important summit. We have a prime minister standing there calling for action, action, action. A statement like that comes along. Then why doesn't the Secretary of State come to the Chamber and say, "I'm a missionary. It's a really good explanation and it's really terribly important that Glasgow be a success. Can I get a majority to sign this statement?" Why didn't the Secretary of State do that? Is she prepared to do so now, to present it now to the Chamber: can we now arrange for a majority, can we give this signal this afternoon, this super important signal, in Glasgow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr Thijssen said: I hear the Secretary of State say missionary one time and the other. We're always missionary. That is why I am also saying at this point that this is up to a new cabinet. I share with the Chamber what my colleague from Finance agreed with the Chamber in May on a letter on how we deal with export credit insurance and how we organise it. That's what I found. Then there will be various initiatives and the weighing up: is it in line with what we have agreed with the Chamber on what we can do or is the exact interpretation better for a new cabinet? I do not know if Mr Thijssen means that, but I think he does, because I have it very strongly myself. We have had these debates together for five months now, and with my predecessor he has had them a little longer. It's time for a new cabinet, so we don't have to say this anymore. I agree with that, but I can only say now that this is really up to a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u157	Then what's our prime minister doing in Glasgow? He calls for "action, action, action" and looks at other countries that need to do more. But then there's a very simple explanation. It does not even cost a euro and the International Energy Agency also says: no more investment in new fossil. There's a statement coming along that we can sign, but then suddenly we're missionary. Why don't you come to the room? Are you now prepared to ask this Chamber: shall we sign this statement, is there a majority for that? Then we're gonna take care of that majority this afternoon and then we're gonna help Glasgow. There is still so much to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u158	What we are doing in Glasgow is joining forces like Europe. This applies to the Prime Minister and my colleagues who are there, but actually to everyone in Europe. We are jointly setting a target, a clear target of 55%. We'll make sure we do our homework at home. That is what we do at national level, and that is what we do at European level. With this we try to form a front and say to other countries: you must also deliver your share. It is sometimes very complicated to get criticism one week because we say 'other countries should too' and then get criticism because we do not say that. That's kind of the reality I'm in. I think you should do what is necessary in your own home so that you can say in Europe: I need leaders or all of Europe behind me for 55%. That is what you need so that you can say worldwide: I call on other countries as well. That's the essence of Glasgow for me. For the rest, I do not believe that I am going to deal with what the Chamber itself decides and what motions are being tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u159	I'll take a look. I believe that Mr Kops was there before Mrs Teunissen. Mr Kops looks very happy, because he still has a lot of interruptions. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u160	That's the downside that the Secretary of State doesn't work in cubes. I still have a lot of questions and I'm gonna ask them anyway. The first question is about nuclear power. I have already said in my speech that the cabinet is rather selective. When it comes to climate policy, an additional EUR 7 billion will be made available, and when it comes to nuclear energy, the Secretary of State says: no, that is up to another cabinet. The State Secretary writes "thank you for the written reply "that the scenario study is expected by mid 2022. Can you do that faster? Because I really feel that it is being put a bit on the long track with those many studies, those studies that are being done. Can you do it faster? I'll ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u161	In my opinion, the scenario study is a good example of what steps you take in a missionary status to avoid standing still on every domain, including this. It's an independent investigation. I don't do it myself, and I can't force it. But I fully agree with Mr Kops. As far as I'm concerned, it's not gonna be us. As soon as it's ready, we'll share it with the Chamber. I think the researchers are now also hearing that we are all waiting for this with sorrow. It is a major research project, in the sense that it is really about the added value and the role that nuclear energy could have in a healthy energy mix of the Netherlands between 2030 and 2050. But I'm telling the PVV, I'm not doing that investigation myself. They are independent people, who should also be able to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u162	I understand that, but could we, as a Chamber, perhaps expect the interim results of that study before the end of this year, so that we can find some of them in the meantime? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u163	I'm gonna check it out. I honestly don't think so. You'll agree that there's going to be a scenario study. Then you decide the problem statement and what questions you turn off. Then you point out independent investigators who can do it. Then we are in the final stage of that process. But I will certainly ask where we stand and if anything is possible in the meantime. If it's okay, I'd like to get back to that in second term. Then I know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u164	Thank you for that. Then there's another question. It's about the energy supplier Welcome Energy. It went bankrupt. The customers have been taken over by Eneco. Those customers indicate that they're going to pay twice as much each month, pay three times as much or even more. We read that gas trader GasTerra, half owned by the State, refuses to release a batch of gas purchased by Welcome Energy. The curator says: "We want the gas to be released, because then we can sell it. Especially with the current gas prices, we can use that money for the injured." But that's not gonna happen. The result is that the State, which owns half of GasTerra, will be able to make millions of dollars. That's right, that's how I ask the Secretary of State. Surely it can't be true that the victims have to pay a lot more for their energy and have to switch to another supplier, and that on the other hand the State itself is going to make millions of profits? Can't we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u165	I understand that question very well. The settlement of the bankruptcy of Welcome Energy is still ongoing. That's especially really incredibly annoying. That's a little understatement for all those customers who are dealing with that right now. So I understand the question very well. There's a dispute between two parties. They've signed a private law contract. In that case, the proportions are such that I cannot interfere. GasTerra applies the same conditions to all customers. It is not specific per contract to say what the securities are for GasTerra and the State when a contract is dissolved. So we can't say that at all right now. I also have no knowledge of this particular contract. It depends, among other things, on developments in the market price and that kind of thing, and how long the contract would last. I think Mr Kops understands that very well. I have wrestled with this myself, because I also have these questions. But it is true that the role of the government is that we are responsible for a level playing field. That means that we cannot interfere with it when there are private agreements, because that is what is going wrong. So right now, I really need to leave the dispute that's going on and the private parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u166	Yeah, I get that, of course, but still. GasTerra is half owned by the State. Should it then be the case that ultimately the State is going to earn from this simply; so, as a result of the bankruptcy of Welcome Energy, millions of dollars flow into the state treasury, does the Secretary of State think that that money should be returned to the doomed? Is she gonna take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u167	Since there is a dispute going on and I really should not interfere with it from my part, I would like to agree with Mr Kops, if I may, to see how this ends. We also don't know what kind of contracts there were, what kind of contract there was with GasTerra, what was delivered and when that contract was concluded. I honestly don't know any of that. Let's agree to see how this ends. Of course, there is another case going on now. I have already indicated in a letter that was a response to a motion by Mr Omtzigt from last week that we are looking at how we can strengthen the supervision of the ACM. I will also deal with energy suppliers, because I think we will eventually share the goal that should affect as few people as possible. So those are things I set up. Let's just say that that's the maximum I can do right now. If this has come to an end, then we'll see how this worked, what happened here, what we think about it, and what the possibilities are for doing something else with it. I can't interfere with it right now and I can't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u168	Finally. I understand, of course, that it's all very complicated with contracts and the like. But can the Secretary of State promise that if the State simply gains from this and earns from it, then that money will at least go back to the victims? Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u169	I'm sorry. In relation to this case, and to cases like this, I can't do anything. So I can't make a commitment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u170	I shall look at Mr Azarkan, but Mrs Teunissen has been waiting for you for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u171	It's about this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mrs. Teunissen nods in agreement, so go ahead, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u173	What an extremely beautiful gesture by Mrs Teunissen. Thank you. I had asked a number of questions on this point. The Secretary of State has said that she has asked her officials to contact Eneco. I read that. The question is, what did that get us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u174	I want, of course, to be able to go much deeper into this, in this Chamber and from my own role, because it is a lot of people who are being hit. But we have the ACM here as an independent supervisor. I can't interfere with that. The ACM therefore also ensures that this security of supply is guaranteed for people, but in a time like this it unfortunately also means that people end up in a contract with which they will pay more. I hope that the billions package that we have set aside for households will provide some relief, but people are already approaching me and saying that, of course, that will not be the case for everyone either. So that's what we're worried about. As far as possible, because of course it is all business sensitive information again, I would like to return in writing to what has been put on the table in the talks with Eneco and what we have shared. An example. People are ringing now. It's nice that they're not without a contract and without a light, but I'd like to keep giving them the freedom to switch in a few weeks if they don't want to go to Eneco. These were certain questions for my part, but I am more than willing to say to Mr Azarkan that he should come back to this as far as I can share it, because it is not about the contracts we have; it is also a commercial business. It is perhaps a good thing to say that I am wider with various energy suppliers, of which we have quite a few in our country, want to sit down or at least my officials. These are two cases, but we have already said at the beginning of the process that, if you look at the market, it could become more. So I don't want to do it in five years' time, but I want to see what happens right away, what we can learn from it and what other conversations we can have within the limits of what I'm allowed to do, because ACM is of course in the lead as an independent supervisor. I'll come back to that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u175	That is an extremely long answer. There are also very nice words, but I do not know what the stakes were when officials were asked to contact Eneco. I got the prizes. For the sake of transparency: I'm also with Welcome Energy, but I'll figure it out. So you don't have to do it for me, but I do have people around me who have that $400 on average because of that $3 billion, which is really good. It's good that that's done after a month. On average, gas prices are charged from €0.75 to €1.80, plus delivery for €5.95. Electricity goes from €0,22 to €0,50. This is going to cost on average €300, €400. There are really households that are deeply affected by this, especially those who have little, also in combination with rising inflation. I regret that the Secretary of State says: I will talk to them and also the ACM. I think we can also expect our cabinet to do so proactively. If we see these problems a few Mondays ago, we should not wait until the ACM takes away that licence, but should we take stock where it goes wrong in time, what is the role of the ACM and how can we ensure that people can still pay for the messages every month?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u176	Just because we saw this coming months ago and asked several parties in this Chamber, including the VVD, to pay attention to this, we also started to work. Firstly, with that large package, which we have said quite frankly that it will be too high compensation for some people and too low compensation for others. That's what the discussion was about. For us it was very important to at least offer some relief and to set it up so that we can carry it out quickly, so before 1 January. Well, that's what we're in the middle of right now. If I'm right, it'll be established next week around the Tax Plan. My officials have been sitting in this situation with the energy suppliers at the table to ensure that, if this package comes through the Chamber and starts working on 1 January, the energy suppliers will be able to process it in advance as soon as possible in order to provide people with some relief. So we haven't been sitting still for months. Again, I can talk to the ACM what I want, but it's an independent supervisor. The letter you received on Monday, following a motion by Mr Omtzigt and one of the SP, addressed the question of how to strengthen the supervision of the ACM. So we do all kinds of things on all sides. Against Mr Azarkan: precisely because we knew this was coming, we have cleared the package. But this is not going to stop other companies from getting into this situation. That's the reality we're in the middle of. Hence my answers are sometimes a little longer, but this is a very important subject with a lot of different elements, which I cannot flatten into one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u177	Mrs Teunissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u178	I would like to go back to the previous point about this cabinet refusing to sign the Glasgow agreement to withdraw/stop state aid for fossil fuels. The most effective measure you can take in a climate crisis is to leave fossil fuels in the ground. Not tomorrow, but now. Reducing the use of gas, coal and oil is the most effective measure. The Netherlands presents itself as a leading group and then says: we are not signing the most effective measure currently proposed by Glasgow. However, non-binding measures are signed. I see a trend for the Netherlands in this: non-binding agreements, such as that pledge in Glasgow against deforestation, where we still have ten years to deforest after which we will see, will be signed. But when the point comes to mind and there is a very concrete agreement to stop public support for fossil fuels in 2022, this cabinet refuses. Is my analysis correct that if the cabinet is going to hurt a little before the polluting companies say it's not going to start, and does it support non-binding statements? Of course, that transition is gonna hurt. We can't escape that. That's what's gonna get us to a better world. It's gonna take harder choices. Is it true that the Secretary of State is now making the economic importance of these polluting companies outweigh the importance of a viable earth for our young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u179	I have just spent two hours trying to argue that this is a contradiction that I think is super old-fashioned and just doesn't go up. I'm not putting these interests against each other. I'm not here to defend fossil companies. I think that Mrs Teunissen would still be happy to see how much I agree with her that we are still very dependent on fossil, although we want to put that behind us quickly. That's right. If we decide that we are not going to use gas, oil or coal anywhere in the Netherlands tomorrow, she will not say so, but if we say so, then the country will go black, because that is not possible at all. We're in the middle of that transition where we're investing billions. That's why Mr Kops keeps getting so angry. We've been converting to clean energy all along. That is precisely why we see that the use of fossil decreases. But you do have to discuss this with each other. That's to a new cabinet. That's what the level is, just like a phase-out path for biomass. What is a wise level to reduce, so that you can ensure that security of supply and quality of life are maintained? That's really up to a new cabinet. I do not recognize Mrs Teunissen's approach to me, but I do recognise that a new cabinet has to decide this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u180	I am disappointed that the Netherlands, that this cabinet, is losing the opportunity to join the leading group to abolish subsidies for fossil projects. In my speech earlier, I indicated the enormous urgency to tackle climate change. The Secretary of State agrees. So I am looking for what we, the Chamber and the Cabinet, have to do to ensure that we are going to take these important steps and that we are working to reduce subsidies for fossil. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. One. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, in order to tackle the climate crisis effectively, we should at least be in Europe's leading group? And does the Secretary of State agree with me that, if we want to be fossil-free by 2050, we should get rid of subsidies for fossil-based projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u181	Two things. Mr Boucke says that we want to get rid of it. The way in which we are doing that, we are quite encouraged by D66 in recent years, is in a European context, with high goals and the way in which we achieve that 55% target. There are all these elements in it. We are saying, in an international context, that we are a block and we are building it up. As far as allowances and the ETS are concerned, we are reducing the ceiling more and more and we are reducing those free rights. This also makes it less and less profitable to remain in this sector or this angle. So I think we're already doing that, encouraged by a party like D66. This is an initiative. I understand very well that there are groups in the Chamber that would have preferred to see things differently, but fortunately there are several initiatives. I mentioned the Export Finance for Future Coalition initiative. My colleague from Finance is part of that. That's what we've been in since spring as a country. This is a leading group of countries that want to better integrate climate targets into export credit insurance, which is a very important part. The Netherlands is the host of the next summit on 24 November. We are drawing this towards us because we think it is very important. I understand very well when there is a critical note to what is happening today and that parties say: I would have preferred to see that differently. But at the same time let us not pretend that there is nothing, because good things are happening in this context in which the Netherlands is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u182	Mr. Boucke, I'm afraid you're out of interruptions. I see Mr De Jong negotiating, but if we count it correctly, you have committed eight interruptions. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u183	I asked a question about the contribution that the major polluters in this country are now making to the energy transition. The principle is: the polluter must pay. We want support, and that means that citizens must also be able to see that the major polluters in this country are making a fair contribution to the transition. Of the 6.8 billion from the Millions Note, 3 billion has been released from the general budget. My question was: what is the contribution of the major polluters to these 3 billion from the general budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u184	I just want to make sure I understand the question perfectly. The question is what the big polluters, the industry, the big companies or whatever you want to call them are contributing. It has just been discussed in detail with the Minister. They pay two thirds of the ODE, there is a CO levy, the European allowances are decreasing and there will be a review of the energy tax at European level, which will make the major polluters pay even more, in order to continue to speak in these terms. So that's what's going on. There is also an additional subsidy from the general budget, which comes to the SDE from the general budget of 6.8 billion, because we want to be able to take decisions or raise them for geothermal or CCS, for example, so that we can also reduce more emissions in the relatively short term. So that's what that's like. And then I don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u185	My question is as follows, and your predecessor has answered it. By 2020, billions of SDE grants were spent, which were collected through the so-called ODE levy. The 12 major polluters, not SMEs, have contributed less than 100 million. Suddenly it has been said that we are no longer going to finance the SDE from the ODE levy, but from general funds. I have a strong suspicion that the large polluters are now contributing much less than the 100 million, so they have started to contribute much less. Here we are doing the opposite of 'polluter pays', but this measure actually means 'polluter is relieved'. That undermines the basis of support, and I think that also means that you cannot or do not want to make the commitment that low and middle incomes are improving on it. So I just want to check how much the big polluters are contributing to the general budget. So this was a question I didn't get an answer to, so I hope this doesn't go away from my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u186	When you hear the question like that, you might think that the 3 billion increase in the SDE grant goes directly to companies and that they just get subsidies. But that's not how it works, of course. It is still about companies saying 'I want to green; I want to make it more sustainable' or 'I am submitting a project for CCS, which is a transition technology, in order to at least contribute to the reduction of CO emissions'. That is being critically assessed, not by us, but we all have techniques for that. For example, when it comes to CCS, it really looks at whether it is the most cost-effective technical option available. That's how it's filled out. When you hear these questions, perhaps that is why I am confused by the question, because I think that large companies can simply make a request and then receive subsidies. But that's not how it works, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u187	Mr Thijssen, I also say to you: your interruptions are unfortunately up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u188	Yeah, but these are questions I can't get an answer to. Then I think it's a bit of a pity that I have to waste my interruptions on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u189	Yes, but I also just told Mr Boucke that he could not do another interruption, and eight is quite wide. So I'm going to be consistent in that now, because if I say yes to you, then I have to say yes to others. So you have to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u190	The rules in this house are that when I ask questions, I also have to get the answers from the minister, and not that I have my interruptions there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u191	Maybe it's not the answers you want to get, but you've got enough room on this subject. Mr Bontenbal also has one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u192	I hope that the Secretary of State will give me a real answer because I have only one interruption left. And I hope she'll give me the answer I'd like to hear. I asked for an optimization study in a motion, but I do get the feeling that you are interpreting this motion in such a way that it is actually an extension of the scenario studies that have been done, namely the II3050 study, carried out by the network operator. But that's not what I asked. I really want a separate optimization study that doesn't just build on that II3050 story. I ask a rather technical question. For example, TNO has done such an optimization study, TRANSFORM and ADAPT; I know they still can. I think TNO also has a contract with EZK to do some of those things. Would you like to invest that assignment as explicitly as well? 'Cause I think how you do it is just a little bit different from what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u193	I can assure you that I will take a good look at this and try to set it up as Mr Bontenbal says it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u194	Mr. Dassen. Or Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u195	I was just talking about it in an earlier interruption about Welcome Energy. People see their energy bill rise enormously, see their monthly amount double, triple. It's all happening. How bizarre is it, then, that no other party in this Chamber is talking about the government's intention to spend 1.3 billion on something called "climate development aid" next year? So 1.3 billion Dutch taxpayers' money is so, huppetee, thrown over the fence abroad, I know what is being spent on, while the people here in the Netherlands themselves can no longer pay the energy bill. That's weird, right? Is the Secretary of State going to reverse that, will the Secretary of State who spends 1.3 billion on combating energy poverty in his own country or not? And another question: what is the 1.3 billion actually being spent on? What is that, "climate development aid"? Can the Secretary of State give an example of a few projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u196	We have also discussed this a little longer in the written set, so I will reply a little bit more succinctly, so that the President does not look at me too harshly. For the people who come into trouble here in our own country, whether it's with their energy bills or a poorly isolated home, we're making a lot of money. Of that 3.2 billion, 2.7 billion goes to households to help people at home to compensate for this huge increase in energy bills. As has been said, this will be far too much for some people and too little for some people, but I am glad that we have been able to take this step so quickly. Then we released 150 million extra. That goes through the municipalities towards the people to help them with isolation. Why is that so important? To make sure... one moment. I come to the 1.3 billion, but it is important to say what we are doing in our country for Dutch people who are getting into trouble or could get into trouble. The 150 million from the municipalities is there to make sure that people who want to do so can also isolate their homes. Hopefully that also saves in that energy bill, besides that it is more comfortable, I think. Last summer, we released more than 500 million to isolate the 20% worst homes. We have shifted the ODE, the storage of renewable energy, so that the people at home only pay one third of it and the companies two thirds. That way we try every time to see what we can help people the most. I am convinced that a new cabinet will also keep that sharp. In addition, in 2015, when we signed the agreement in Paris, we indeed made an agreement to help countries that need help. 1.3 billion is the part of the Netherlands. Now Mr Kops usually says that he is against all climate plans. Sometimes he also says: what is it about, because the Netherlands is only such a small part of the whole. On the contrary, we want to ensure that all countries can deliver their share. In other countries, it can often be even more cost-effective and perhaps more low-threshold than in our country, where we are all on such a small piece and with all the sectors we have. This can help them deliver faster. Mr Kops then asked what was happening there. That's part of my foreign trade and OS colleague's portfolio. I will try to get back to that in the second term, because that will allow us to continue the debate on this issue. But I will at least get him on paper how that is monitored, what kind of programmes they are and what they look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u197	Your last interruption, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u198	I regret this, because in my initial contribution I asked very specifically what would happen to the 1.3 billion. That is not in the written reply either. And it's a crazy lot of money. 1.3 billion is thus transferred abroad to Eastern and Southern Europe, to Africa; I do not know what is happening with that money. And now the Secretary of State says, "Yes, I don't really know." That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u199	No, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u200	I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to talk to you. It's Dutch taxpayers' money. Isn't it bizarre that 1.3 billion is being transferred abroad? For what? For windmills in Africa? Is that it? For solar panels in Eastern Europe? And that while hundreds of thousands of households live in energy poverty in the Netherlands. That's impossible, isn't it? It is their money, and that is why the Secretary of State is going to ensure that this 1.3 billion is not used anywhere in Africa, Poland or Italy, but in the Netherlands, to combat energy poverty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u201	As I said, it is part of an international agreement, with 100 billion in climate finance going towards third countries. I will ensure that Mr Kops gets the information that will allow him to follow that very closely. By the way, I don't think he'll say: oh, in that case I think it's a good idea. In fact, it is still helping other countries to ensure that they can also meet their own climate forecast. I hope that with my introduction, in which I said what we are doing here in our own country for Dutch people, I will also give Mr Kops the confidence that you do not have to confront each other. We are releasing a package of 3.2 billion to slightly reduce the energy bill. We invest so much in isolation. And I am convinced that a new cabinet is going to say: this is an important subject; we have it back on the formation table. Then I hope that Mr Kops will at least agree with me that these things are not opposite each other, that we are a rich and prosperous country and that we can assume our responsibilities both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u202	We started the debate, among other things, with Mr Rutte's 'action, action, action' and the refusal of the Netherlands to join the pledge to reduce or stop subsidies for fossil fuels. That debate has continued a number of times here. I was wondering if the Secretary of State could at least give me an overview of all the financial incentives that stimulate the use of fossil fuels in the Netherlands and how they relate to the "Fit for 55" package. Can she also promise to give me an overview of how all these financial incentives relate to other European financial incentives for fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u203	Yes. It's a very broad question, but I'm going to do my best to get back to that on paper. Then I hear from Mr Dassen whether I interpreted him correctly or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u204	Can we do that before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u205	Let me say this in the second term, because all officials who have not slept for two nights now hear this. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u206	Fine, thank you for the commitment. Secondly, I would have liked to have promised that, in relation to this, we will have an update of the phasing-out path that Mr Van der Lee asked for three years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u208	We have one more colleague... Ah, Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u209	Because it went so smoothly, I thought maybe I could get another one. It's about the RRF program. We read in the answer to the questions that the funds may be used to pay for investments that are already planned. I was wondering if the Secretary of State could give a reflection: where does she think the money should go? I read that it's on the formation table, which is why I'm asking for a reflection. A second question I have is whether the consultations with municipalities and other parties are sufficiently guaranteed, even in the future? At least 37% of the RRF is available for climate. We also need to start these consultations as soon as possible in order to ensure that the implementation is going well. I would like a commitment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u210	I see the Minister listening critically, or no, neutrally. It's the minister who's talking about that. I suggest we come back to that later. In any case, the Minister may explain to what extent he can or cannot reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u211	I see that Mr Van der Lee and Mr Dassen are all dressed the same. That leads to joint interruptions. Only the shoes have a different color, yes. We now have Mr Eerdmans at the interrupting microphone. He has not yet addressed the floor to box K. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u212	That's right. It's not about an insignificant subject. It's about the Borssele nuclear reactor. I have received a text from your late-night officials, to name them, for which I am grateful. The point is, I actually asked for a letter. When I tabled that motion to the General Reviews, you said: how about it, because for the budget you will get a response on the state of affairs. We haven't had any. We're in touch with your officials. They all say "mea culpa, sorry, sorry." It's a little unclear why it didn't work out six weeks later. Let me say this. We've been there. EPZ says that we must make an investment in extending the duration. An initial study must be carried out. Those are stress tests. They're very valuable. That's gonna cost you millions. The question is, who's gonna wear that? If they say: we will have to wear this as EPZ and then the cabinet will say that it closes Borssele. In short, in the short term, is the cabinet going to pay for the research being carried out in Borssele into extending the duration of the nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u213	Let me say from this place that I am sorry that we did not succeed in time. I promised it would be there for the budget. Mr Eerdmans knows that I think it is important to be clear about this myself. When I was in Borssele, they showed me and told me this, and they took me in. The letter that has been promised deals with a number of issues. This means that the alignment will eventually take longer. I'm not going on all these subjects alone. For example, a large part of this is covered by IenW's colleague. But it's wider than that. That is the shortest variant of the answer to the question why it did not succeed in time. If I may put it simply, I didn't want to take it off with a letter of formal notice, but I really wanted to go into elements. Then I just need more time. That's actually the only reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u214	Clear. Well, then that's a map. So I will split it up into this question, which is most urgent, namely who is going to bear the costs of that stress study, that research into renewal. Can you accept the EPZ in that by saying that the Empire is in favour of carrying out that investigation? Because that is one of the short-term activities to keep this plant open from 2033.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u215	There are two motions before us in this context. One belongs to Mr. Eerdmans with, if I may say so, the SGP. It calls for the closure of that nuclear power plant to be postponed. And there's a motion from the CDA and the VVD from a while ago. It calls for the necessary adaptations to nuclear energy legislation to be designed to extend the duration of the operation. I can't say from my position here right now that there's money for it. That is not up to me, especially since it is not up to me to fill in what the role of the government will be in this. So I can't do that this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u216	Well, I guess Borssele's gonna have a problem with it. That is my understanding, because they insist that in the short term it becomes clear who will pay those millions. If they don't, it's gonna be in danger. I do know that motion. I think you mean the Mulders/Harbers motion. So there's pressure on the kettle. I would ask the Secretary of State to think about this with the officials and to inform me, if possible for the second term. That may be tight, but at least during the afternoon, before my turn. Let me put it this way. Well, then I'd like to know a little bit more about that. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u217	What I can do is I'm gonna check if there's a hard deadline. As far as I know, there isn't one like that. I know in Borssele they'll tell you they need to know where they're going soon. I understand that very well. In my view, Mr Eerdmans is asking for one more punch, or at least to be sharper. Then he can politically do with it again what he wants to do with it. In any case, I can promise to pick up whether I can say that in the second term. Let me set it up nicely, so I don't promise something I can't deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u219	Oh, the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yeah, if you can still respond to that, that would be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u221	If it's okay, I've got two, in part no. 14 and item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u222	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u223	Yes. The amendment in part No. 14 belongs to Mr Erkens and Mr Dassen. Let's see. They want to free up funds to set up a programme of knowledge and innovation in the field of nuclear technology. The amendment concerns both energy and the wider application of nuclear technology, such as medical isotopes. This is also a component in which the Netherlands is at the forefront worldwide. We don't want to lose that knowledge infrastructure. We know it's under pressure. We have also read reports on this, for example from the 2019 Van der Zande Committee. But I can, especially given the coverage, only deal with the energy and climate components. So if I can read it that way, so I can focus on what we can do about it in the house and in that case pay for it, then I can give the judgment Chamber. If I can interpret it that way, at least we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u224	This is about the amendment to item No. 14. I'll take a look at Mr. Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u225	Is it possible for the Secretary of State to talk to the other departments, to see what is possible? Because as far as we're concerned, it's wider than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u226	I understand. I can do that anyway. If I can interpret the amendment in such a way that we get to work on it in this way, then that is how we do it with the amendment. Then, of course, I can continue to talk to my colleagues, which I am also talking to from other motions and requests in this context, to involve the knowledge infrastructure. We'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u227	Okay. Then we have the amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u228	15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u229	That's now 16 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u230	Okay. Is that Mr Boucke's, Mr Bontenbal's...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u231	Yes, from Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u232	Okay, great. It asks for the grant scheme to open up cooperative energy production with an additional amount. I know that your Chamber has always been very enthusiastic about this arrangement. I understand that, by the way. It is also very good in society. That's why we're always talking about getting cramped. In terms of content, therefore, I think it is a sympathetic arrangement. I would like to make one comment about the coverage. Then I'll do it right. Then I give the judgment Chamber with this remark. It is about an amount to come from the 6.8 billion of the Million Note. That is still in the supplementary heading, but it is clearly intended for climate action. The amendment contributes to this, so I find cover acceptable in this way. With this addition, I have also understood from the financial people, I say it correctly and I can give the amendment judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u233	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-04-tweedekamer-4.u234	You've earned a lunch. I'm suspending until 2:30 p.m. Then we shall first have votes on the motions that have been tabled in the Corona debate. Then we'll continue with the second term.
