ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Gijs van Dijk and Maatoug amending the Law on minimum wage and minimum holiday allowances and some other laws relating to the introduction of a uniform minimum statutory hourly wage and some other amendments. I would like to stress this because at the time when the first term of office of the Gijs van Dijk Chamber was still the sole initiator. I would like to welcome both initiators. They are supported in Box K by Mr Elwin Wolters and Ms Meike Hellevoort, staff members of the PvdA and the GroenLinks groups respectively. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first deadline on the part of the Chamber took place on 9 September 2020 and we are now ready to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It's good to be standing here, not because we like it, although it's fun, but because it's a very important subject that affects a lot of people in the Netherlands: the minimum wage, to be specific: the hourly wage. If you look at what has happened in recent years, you can see that the richest 500 Dutch people, who are still working on the corona pandemic, have become richer, with almost 4%. If you add up their assets, you'll come up to almost 200 billion. Of course, I'd like everyone to have a great fortune, but on the other hand, you have more than a million people living in poverty in this country every day. There are 240,000 or 250,000 children who grow up every day in poverty, who know nothing but financial stress from parents and choices that are mostly not made. That's also a Netherlands. You see how incredibly well people are. The economy thrives, despite corona, companies make a lot of profits, the public finances are doing well, the government has something to spend. We were able to ensure that companies could keep people in service and keep companies alive with billions of public money. So it's a huge wealthy country, with a huge potential. The labour market is crying out for people. In fact, there are more vacancies than people to find. The other side of the same labour market is that there are some 220,000 people who work every day, have a good job, in the hospitality industry, as a supermarket employee, or with a combination of jobs, but who do live in poverty. We've been calling that "working poor" for a number of years. We should really be ashamed that we have invented it at all; working poor in the Netherlands, in this prosperous country. On the one hand, the wealthy are getting richer and, on the other hand, there is a large group, which is not shrinking, which is slipping away, living in poverty, working, but does not reach the end of the month, has to make impossible choices for the family and, above all, cannot make choices. And that is why it is important that we talk about minimum wage here. Here in this house, we can change this twin that we've known for years. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has been warning for years and pointing out that there is a division and growing inequality in this society. We can change it in this house. We can close that hole. We can fight inequality. That goes right here in this house, with the good political choices. If it's up to us, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, we're going to do the same today. We see this law as a first step to counter this division, which is growing inequality. Think of it as a first, modest step: the hourly wage. Before I answer the questions asked by the parties, I would like to thank people in particular. We have fantastic support from Social Affairs, that has to be said. What would we be without them? But also from Bureau of Legislation, in this house. We have a fantastic employee from GroenLinks: Meike. She's pulled over and she's doing a fantastic job. And, last but not least, Elwin Wolters. I've known Elwin for years, even from the trade union movement. He's really an expert on social affairs. And what would I be without him? Nothing at all. So also special thanks to Elwin Wolters, who did most of the work. I must also thank the parties. I must say that you have sincerely asked good questions about this good bill. We will do the answer in a number of parts. We're gonna split it up, too. Senna, Mrs Maatoug, will also do a number of parts. I will deal with the need for the legislative proposal. Questions have been asked about this, of course. Furthermore, I am aware of the clarity and persistence, the time for submission and the freedom of negotiation of the social partners. Mrs Maatoug will then comment on the effects on employment, the 36 hours, working hours, the financial coverage of the bill and some other matters. What I would also like to mention here is that MEP Agnes Jongerius is currently presenting, as we speak, a package of minimum wage guidelines in Europe in Europe. It is not that Europe is going to determine how high the minimum wage should be in each country, but the directive must be there. And, very importantly, the union power must be strengthened. This concerns the freedom of negotiation. We do not know the pressure on this in the Netherlands, but in other European countries it is certainly known. It is beautiful, and coincidental, that we now have this on the agenda both in Europe and in this House. Mr. Chairman. I told you, 220,000 workers live in poverty every day. They work hard, but they don't have enough to make it to the end of the month, to pay the rent, to make ends meet. That is the reality for thousands of people in the Netherlands. Apart from being difficult to live by, poverty, of course, leads to many more problems. Poverty makes your world smaller, leads you to make impossible choices and lets you live in stress every day. The Labour Party and GroenLinks believe that we need to tackle this poverty in the Netherlands fundamentally. Increasing the minimum wage is one of the fastest and best solutions. It's not the only solution. Of course, we also have to deal with the supplement system. We need to look at the design of social security, and we need to see how we can divide prosperity properly. But first of all, it is very important that we raise the minimum wage. And today we start with the hourly wage. We're not alone. The Nibud, the employers of VNO-NCW is now the trade unions, but also many aldermen in this country, such as Alderman Heijkoop van Dordrecht: they all argue for an increase in the minimum wage. In its recent opinion on the working poor, the Economic and Social Council also stated that the income of workers should be improved, explicitly mentioning the increase in the minimum wage. Fortunately, increasing the minimum hourly wage is also included in many electoral programmes. I see that we can really take steps in this Chamber, also in view of the programmes of almost all parties. Almost everyone wants to increase the minimum wage and the minimum hourly wage to a greater or lesser extent. That is what is urgently needed. If you look at the strong European countries and at all the world, you can see that the Netherlands is not well scored in terms of the statutory minimum wage. We are in the right row, whereas we should be in the top as one of the richest countries. That is why I say again: a first step today. Before we further increase that statutory minimum wage, we need to secure the hourly wage. That's important. What about the further increase in the statutory minimum wage, and what is the relation to this bill? Mr Van Dijk asked for this in the first term. We regard this hourly wage as a first step. You have to establish that, and as far as we're concerned, it's 36 hours. That's what I'm here to talk about. This brings it to a higher level for people who currently work in the supermarket or the catering industry, for example, as this is based on a lower hourly wage. This is an important first step for our parties to be able to take the next step to €14. That is indeed really important. That is what Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP is absolutely right in saying: that is really going to bring people and society forward, and that is finally going to combat growing inequality. We must be able to achieve this through this political intervention. We now see that social partners are also making agreements on a higher minimum wage. Of course, that's very good news. It happens in several places. A good deal has been made with the municipalities. At the research institutions, €14 has been set up and agreed on for a long time. That's good news. That is also good news for the very good campaign from the trade union movement: the campaign For 14. We wholeheartedly support them. But campaigning alone is not enough. And the fact that only social partners make agreements in some places is not enough. It will also have to be legally secured. And again, if you look at the programmes and the different parties, we should take a big step in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. In the first term of the Chamber, the link was also requested. Of course, it's important. The minimum wage is linked to the assistance and the AOW. That is a very important principle for us, because we see that not only people who work are struggling and living in poverty, but also many people with welfare benefits simply cannot keep their heads above water. The assistance in the Netherlands is simply too low. Or, for example, take elderly people with only an AOW and a small pension. It's hard for them to make ends meet. As far as we are concerned, the link is very important, that at the time we are going to raise the minimum wage, aid is going to increase in percentage terms and the AOW is going to increase. That is very important. We'll see to it in this house, too, that it's really gonna happen. Because all these people and all these different groups are all in the same situation. They don't have enough money to make it to the end of the month. They're constantly under financial stress. Again, that is totally unacceptable in such a prosperous country as we are. However, as a first step, this legislative proposal concerns only the fixing of the minimum hourly wage and not the monthly wage. In addition, the link is not the issue. A question in the first term of your Chamber was: what happens to the assistance and the AOW? In this case, we don't change the monthly wage. We'll secure the hourly wage. And that doesn't change anything for the welfare and the AOW right now. However, we say that it should, of course, be done in further steps. That's absolutely necessary. During the legislative consultation on the Tax Plan, Mr Nijboer, together with Mrs Maatoug, put forward a proposal to increase the minimum wage, including assistance and the AOW, by about 6%. I believe that this proposal did not reach the vote. But we will continue to do so. We also understand that the formation is currently in progress. But we will have to see a further increase in the minimum wage and assistance and the AOW as a very important part. We will certainly test the possible outcome on that. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Palland of the CDA. She specifically asked about the social minimum. That's what she asked the Secretary of State. Her question was whether the social minimum is currently set in the wrong way, because it is set in a way that is too low. We are in complete agreement with her because we are seeing the social minimum at the moment. That is because we are now using the low-income threshold of the CBS to set that social minimum, and that is simply not enough. We can see that this is just not a good time at the moment. One of the poignant effects is also the poverty that exists among children. I said that just in the beginning of my story. Why is that so distressing? Because once you grow up in poverty as a child, you get very hard out of it and carry it with you your whole life. You carry that stress and the choices you can't make with your friends who can make these choices, with you. That is why I hope to be back here in the near future when it comes to our legislative proposal to reduce the number of children in poverty. We have also made a proposal for this. I see that several parties, including the CDA, say in their election programme that we really need to tackle child poverty, that we need to tackle poverty at all and that we need to raise the minimum wage. Mrs Palland also said about the issue of working poor people that the bill before us does not solve this problem directly. I can imagine that, because of course it is a first small step, but I do not entirely agree with her. That is where I agree with the Economic and Social Council, because the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the working poor explicitly states that the increase in income and the minimum wage play a role in the partial resolution of the problem of workers who have to live in poverty. Moreover, the Economic and Social Council explicitly mentions this bill in its opinion. So the ESC is also in favour of setting the hourly wage. Does this proposal solve all the problems of the working poor? No, not all problems are solved. For example, self-employed people are not directly helped, but they could benefit indirectly. If wages in a particular sector go up, they can also see that in their rates. They can also rise. So the fact is that if you keep more money in your wallet, you might eventually get out of that poverty and make it to the end of the month. So much for the need for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u4	I see an interruption by Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u5	I was just having second thoughts, because there are cubes. I have another question about my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u6	Can we do that at the end? Is that a good idea? Then I'll keep my story first. We had some questions about that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u7	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u8	Then I come to the clarity and enforcement. That's the second part. How many hours are we going to base that hourly wage and the further increase in that hourly wage? Is that based on 36 hours, 37.4 hours or 40 hours? Both employers, workers and inspection authorities are very important to say that this way of working with different minimum hourly rates is not working properly. That does not work well for the inspection, but it does not work well for the social partners. Besides, it's old-fashioned. Of course, you are constantly seeing people moving from one sector to another. You also have people who earn the minimum wage and have multiple jobs in different sectors and who are therefore also affected by different hourly rates. They have often not chosen to do so. So that's a crazy effect that we're trying to solve with this law by just making it much clearer. Employers and employees also say, through the Labour Foundation, that this is much more transparent and that it is much more manageable when such a uniform minimum hourly wage is applied. It also makes it easier for temporary employment agencies to work, because they can simply rely on a minimum hourly wage rather than different hourly wages, based on working time per collective agreement per workplace. Previously, the Labour Foundation has been able to calculate that an hourly wage for temporary employment agencies is important for determining the classification remuneration and the minimum statutory hourly wage and its private enforcement. However, this enforcement applies in particular to public enforcement by the Inspection SZW. The inspection indicates that they are positive about an hourly wage and the fixed period of a 36-hour working week. By introducing this hourly wage, there is a simplification for enforcement. That's what I think it's gonna take. It is precisely in these sectors, where pay is relatively low and less earned, that inspection often runs into certain structures. The inspection itself also says that it is difficult for them to see exactly how much is paid per hour and how much is actually being worked. If we set the hourly wage, it's much easier to see it back on a paycheck. In short, as far as this block is concerned, everyone, inspection, employers, employees, says: please stop with these different hourly wages; just put that on hold and then assume that. That's what we do in our bill. On the basis of 36 hours, you will now arrive at €10.91 per hour. That is, of course, indexed every time. This means a direct improvement in the salary of, for example, the catering staff or the people in the call centres or the supermarket employees. Let me mention the supermarkets and the catering industry. That is precisely where the people who have kept the country running for the past two years work. A lot of people worked at home, but they didn't. They made sure that we could just do the shopping. So, logically, I'm getting to my third part. That's the time for submission. That was also discussed in the first period. Then we were in the middle of the corona pandemic. I was hoping to say here: well, that's what we're good at. But I'm afraid to say that now, given the increase in the number of infections. We did have a legitimate fear back then. What does this do to the economy? What does this do with employment? Is it appropriate, at this point, to weigh up sectors which are really difficult with a higher hourly wage, which means that employers have to pay more for their staff? I dare now to make that statement: yes, that is appropriate and that is sensible. We can now see that the economy is doing well, that there is a tight labour market, that we have dealt well with this coronapandemic and also the possible economic consequences, including through good government policies to keep jobs and businesses in the air. That just worked well. So you can now see that it is also wise to increase that hourly wage and that the sectors we are talking about, for example the supermarkets, have made a lot of money in recent times. It is therefore best to take a first step and also to ask some employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u9	Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u10	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I hear very well what Mr. Van Dijk says about the clarity. I get that. I think I endorsed that in my first term. My question then also had to do with Mr Van Dijk's second comment: why the 36 hours? There are employers who are indeed in collective agreements of 38 or 40 hours. I do not know if Mr Van Dijk has spoken to them, but with this initiative proposal they see quite different things for themselves, which are far less rosy than Mr Van Dijk now seems to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u11	Good question. This bill is divided into two objectives. One side is that clarity and enforcement. The inspection says: this is not possible, all these different times and collective agreements and things; just set that hourly wage at one amount. The second objective of this bill is to take a first step towards combating the poverty of people who currently work for the minimum wage but simply earn too little. As far as we are concerned, it is a first step towards a much bigger step. Of course, there are employers who are worried. On the one hand, you can see that we are going to ask the sectors that have turned out quite well in recent times, despite corona. They can really pay a little more. I also see employers saying that in polder terms. That's very good news. At the Economic and Social Council, they drew up the MLT, the medium-term opinion. In it, employers say that they are keen to raise the minimum wage, of course with a number of reservations, and that the hourly wage is also important. Of course, employers are never happy when we say that we are going to increase wages. But first of all, they have no competitive disadvantage, because it applies to everything and everyone in their sector. Secondly, I think it is absolutely necessary, because they have nothing to gain from employees who are in financial stress every day, who are in debt and I know a lot about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u12	But my question remains: why the choice for 36 hours? Or does this bill by Mr Van Dijk actually have a third objective, namely to set all collective agreements to one working week size? If so, why 36 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u13	Now I understand better. No, that is expressly not the intention. We'll secure the hourly wage. We do that on the basis of 36 hours. That's how you get to that $10.91 right now. We cannot reach agreements between the social partners. There are, of course, 40-hour collective agreements, 38-hour agreements and 36-hour collective agreements. This bill will have no effect on the police, because they have been for 36 hours and still apply a minimum wage; I do not know how many people they do so for. It doesn't have any effect. However, the legislative proposal has an absolute impact on sectors such as supermarkets. They're supposed to be 40 hours. They will have to pay the staff more. That's the effect of this bill. Mr President, I shall continue. Let's see where I left off. I was at the moment of filing and crisis. Mrs. Tielen asked for that. It's a conscious choice of ours. The choice concerns first of all: clarity, better enforcement and a fairer system. The choice concerns second: taking a first step in increasing the income of people who work. This brings me to my last block, namely the freedom of negotiation of social partners. Mrs. Tielen has been asking about it for a while. Is this not due to the freedom of employers and workers, which we naturally advocate in order to make agreements of our own? This concerns purely and only determining the hourly wage. This will indeed have an effect on what people who work on the basis of 40 hours earn. So no, we do not have the freedom to negotiate. Yes, it does have budgetary effects for those sectors that have agreed a 38-hour or 40-hour working week. Mr President, if I may, I will do the amendment at the very end. Then I've done my part now. Mrs Maatoug continues. I will come back to the amendment at the end, because I just need to look at it, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u14	That is excellent, but I have another more general question. Let there be no misunderstanding, this is a good bill. We will certainly support it. I thought Mr Gijs van Dijk said: 'This is a first step. More needs to be done. The minimum wage should actually just go up sharply." I very much agree with that. I would like to ask the two authors if they have taken note of the SP legislative proposal. The bill was passed in Question Time on Tuesday in order to raise the minimum wage significantly to €14 and beyond. Can I even count on their support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u15	That is a good question from Mr Jasper van Dijk. We support the steps to €14, because that is so important. I already mentioned the enormous division we have in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. We've had it for years. That's unacceptable. I believe that we all, as parties, have been set up to combat this inequality, to give everyone equal opportunities and to ensure that prosperity is shared fairly. So we need to raise the minimum wage. As far as we are concerned, this should also go up to €14. It may be that we're all a bit different in the speeds. I think the same applies to GroenLinks. Mr. Jasper van Dijk, I think we both want the assistance and the AOW to go up. That just costs a lot of money. We shouldn't beat around the bush. That's what we're willing to do, but we're really taking a couple of years to move towards that €14. I would suggest that we hold on to that. And let's also try to find supporters from the other parties, because I think our goal is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u16	I very much agree with my namesake. The art is, of course, to get other parties involved in this. They have just heard this passionate speech by Mr Gijs van Dijk. I don't really doubt it anymore. Let's get to work fast. Maybe we can take some steps today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u17	That's great. I shall come back to the amendment in a moment. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Maatoug. Or do you want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u18	We'll suspend for a while before cleaning, so you can switch positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u19	I give the floor to the initiator, Mrs Maatoug. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u20	For the people at home and in the stands: I am here for the first time. So I have a completely different perspective on this Chamber. If you ask yourself: the image is actually the same. I think the people in the stands have the most beautiful picture. What's special is that we got a cup of coffee. That was nice, too. That's what I learned. And I was wondering in advance, and maybe other people, too, if the plush stick. That's not so bad. As Mr Van Dijk has announced, I have three blocks: employment effects, finance and others. I told you, it's special to be standing here. It's a great honor. It is also special to be standing here with a technical but extremely important bill. A question has just been asked by a colleague of the SP. This is a hugely important step for the foundation of our legal minimum wage. Hopefully we will have a lot of discussions in this house about the further increase in the minimum wage and about the building up of our social security, which we may have reduced a little in recent years. In order to do so, it is important that the foundation is in order. That seems like a small step. I've heard a lot of people say this week, "What a good thing you're going to raise the minimum wage in one go." Then I said, "Watch out, this is a technical step." We're gonna change the minimum hourly wage, and that's what's needed to be able to take other steps. I think it is important to say that precisely. It's an essential step. First of all, thank you for the very good questions. Among other things, the Christian Union, the CDA and D66 asked the question: what about the coincidence with the supplement scheme? Mr Bruins who is no longer with us, or at least not in this Chamber... Oh sorry, people. Mr. Bruins, excuse me, this went wrong. This calls for a correction in the Acts. Mr Bruins said that control is extremely important. D66 has also indicated this in the questions. As I said earlier, the basic security in the Netherlands is not in order. The assistance, the supplement scheme and the old age provision: we have allowed them to stop doing what they are made for. D66 asked: is it not convenient to wait and look at the whole rather than do it in isolation? We, as proposers, see it differently. It is precisely through this bill that we can take a first step. By choosing a uniform hourly wage, it will be easier to continue raising the minimum wage and taking measures on supplements. It is therefore important to take this step now, in order to be able to do the other one accurately. So the timing of this bill is very good, we think. This bill is the foundation of the house, so that in the formation the right wall and the left wall can be realized from the extension to €14, as Mr Bruins said. Because it must be clear whether you will get €14 for 36, 38 or 40 hours of work. In addition, this bill increases the minimum wage, which means that people will have to make less use of the allowances, with all the adverse consequences. It saves 18 million in supplements and 3 million in childcare allowances. Moreover, it also makes it easier for people who earn the minimum wage to know how much they earn at the end of the month if they change jobs. That's very nice. Several Members have asked questions about the employment effects. I think it is equally good to mention first of all what we are talking about. As proposers, we are not in favour of jobs that pay so badly that you really cannot get away with it. We are really talking about the basis of the labour market. It's a fundamental question, but I'm just gonna ask it anyway. It is quite clear to us, but the question is whether you want to have that kind of employment. But let's talk about the employment effects. Mrs. Tielen asked for that too. He called it "the CPB report." I think that was very clear. The impact of this bill on employment is negligible, and this is also due to its technical nature. Colleagues have also asked about further employment effects. Just so we're clear, the effects of this bill are negligible. But in the larger minimum wage discussion there has been a large labour market discussion. We've also seen change. As proposers, we have conducted and followed these discussions well. And we also see that literature has changed. We are also very pleased with the section of the CPB on larger statutory minimum wage effects. We actually see in the places abroad that we can follow, that there are actually much less adverse effects than we expect. In Britain, for example, there is an increase in the minimum wage with very limited labour market effects. What we have also seen in our own country is that the expectations of increasing youth wages were much more negative. Turned out what? It wasn't that bad. It almost didn't cost any jobs. So let me get this straight: the labour market effects of this bill are nil. But let's get ahead of the bigger discussion: we don't really worry about that either, given the experiences in our own country and abroad and based on the literature. The questions put by Mrs Tielen, Mrs Palland and Mr Stoffer. Will entrepreneurs have additional costs? The answer is yes. That was just said in Mr Van Dijk's reply. I would also like to point out the plea of VNO-NCW, SMEs Netherlands and LTO Netherlands in the SER-MLT opinion, the medium-term advice. They also call on themselves to raise the minimum wage. Recent economic research has also been carried out by the CBS showing that industries with relatively high minimum wage rates are above average profitable. Moreover, they are not exposed to foreign competition. Think of the Jumbos and the Albert-Heinen of this world, who make huge profits, but hardly give their employees a wage increase. Then I come to the part about the choice of normal working hours of 36 hours. This is also still covered by the employment effects. Several political groups, including those of Mr Stoffer, Mrs Tielen and the successor of Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Beuker, have asked questions about why the 36-hour working time was chosen. Why wasn't the average or the median working week chosen? Let me make a note: you have a choice to make. Because the whole point is, if you're gonna do this right, you're gonna have to make a choice for a couple of hours. That's why this bill is so nice. We have chosen for those 36 hours, because it is very important for us to consider who you want to move forward or go backwards. Mr Van Dijk said it too. I thought the CNV said it very well in the consultation: this bill to restore the foundation should not lead to the people who already have the lowest incomes falling below that minimum wage. That is why we have chosen the 36 hours. We should not want people who are already making little money to earn even less. Choosing a working time of 36 hours is also best from simplicity and enforcement. Mr Van Dijk indicated the net in his reply. For example, if we look at the average, we come to 37.4 hours. Who works 37.4 hours and then what's the minimum hourly wage? And then there are all kinds of complicated questions for employees that we want to solve with this bill. Then we come back to that simplicity and that persistence. That explains the 36 hours. The SGP proposed to opt for a guarantee. That way, we think you're gonna get people paid below the minimum wage. It seems a bit like a pay dispensation 2.0 and that seems very undesirable to us. In addition, you create all kinds of complicated constructions, because if someone works for an hour or less, this ensures a different guarantee. And that happens regularly because of, for example, zero-hour contracts. In view of the events surrounding the premium affair, this seems to us to be extremely undesirable. It is also a pity that the group is not here, because we have studied well. The colleagues of the SGP quoted Matthew 20. I had to go back for that, because I wasn't very familiar with that literature. But I did that in the interim period and I do not read it in the same way as Mr Stoffer. After all, this bill ensures that if someone continues to work for 40 hours, he or she will receive a higher wage, even above the minimum wage. On the other hand, people who are now working with less can earn the minimum wage, for example, four hours more time for their seen or friends. Isn't that what the SGP needs to appeal to? They're not in the room for a while, but maybe they're looking back at the debate. The D66 Group asked whether sectors with 36 hours' working time are also sectors with a strong involvement of trade unions. We do not believe that this is the case. For example, a 36-hour working sector is the social employment sector. This is a sector where, despite the great involvement of trade unions, it is very difficult to raise hourly wages. Businesses have had to wait for years for a new collective agreement. In the collective agreement, too, it can be said that, despite the hard work of trade unions, it is not always easy to raise the lowest wages. The question raised by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Weyenberg, is whether the collective agreements of sectors in which trade unions have a strong position and the working time is 36 hours, are automatically good collective agreements: unfortunately this is not the case. Moreover, there are, of course, a lot of people who do not work on the basis of a collective agreement. These are people to whom the minimum wage is paid and where the wage is as minimal as possible. Then Mrs Tielen would have asked about the effects of this bill on semi-public institutions, specifically police and defence. The police have a 36-hour working time, I answer Mrs. Tielen. This bill therefore has no impact on the staff or on the current workload there. Defense has a 38-hour working time and this bill provides a higher wage for 2,800 employees in the Defense Department. That costs about EUR 3 million a year, and we have included that amount in our coverage, which I will talk about in this way. Then cover. It's all there all nice and tidy. I think it is an easy consultative role today, but perhaps there will be another difficult question in a moment; we do not know. Okay. I hope this wasn't entrapment. Get down! Get down! Get down! Mr Bruins asked: 'It is a real shame that he is not there 'how many wheelbarrows are needed for EUR 330 million in notes of €50. Let me repeat the question. How many wheelbarrows are needed for 330 million euros in €50 notes? I'll take a look around. Does anyone know the answer? I see surprised faces. That is, of course, simple: unfortunately there are not 100 wheelbarrows, as Mr Bruins said at the time. There are a little more, namely 5,062 wheelbarrows. Fortunately, this amount has been reduced, which also means less full wheelbarrows are needed. Then this Secretary of State also less often has to walk to the Ministry of Finance with an empty wheelbarrow to fill it. For the observant viewer, perhaps for people in the public gallery or for Mr Bruins, if he is going to read this debate in the Acts, I know that he is very precise with numbers. A note of €50 is 14.6 by 7.7 cm. With a thickness of 0.011 cm, 100 million notes take more than 123 cubic metres. So 330 million in notes of €50 is 405 cubic meters. A cub note of €50 is 12.5 full wheelbarrows, so 405 times 12.5 wheelbarrows are 5.062 full wheelbarrows, if you are wondering. An essential question, I think. Then, also essential, the exact cost and coverage. That is where I am looking forward to the presentation and the debate today. The cost of introducing the uniform minimum legal hourly wage based on 36 hours accounts for 80 million per year in structurally higher expenditure for municipalities and additional costs for wage costs, 14 million for the WIA, 13 million for the WW and 7 million for the Disease Act. On the other hand, there are income effects on the 18 million Supplements Act, the 3 million child-related budget and the 3 million child-care allowance. On top of that, there is a cost of around EUR 3 million in raising wages for the 2,800 employees of the Defence Department, as has just been said. This means that the total cost is EUR 93 million per year. Especially for the Christian Union, which is not there: that is 114 full wheelbarrows with 50 euro notes. That's a different amount than the bill says. This is because we have recently been told by officials that the employers who were not previously given LIV would get LIV through this law. That is not in line with the objective of the law, whereby we only want to achieve a uniform minimum hourly wage. If we increased the employers' group, this would cost €250 million. However, due to the letter of amendment sent on Tuesday, these costs are dropped. This means that employers who now receive the LIV will continue to receive it as long as the LIV still exists. The letter of amendment therefore prevents employers from receiving a LIV grant which they have never received before. Then there's something I have to say about the cover. We deliberately have not yet recorded it, because we also wanted to hear the appreciation of our colleagues. So we are talking about the EUR 93 million structuralally. We'd like to talk to the Chamber about this. We have specifically looked for coverage proposals that can also count on broad support. So we have also looked closely at the programmes of our colleagues, and also at the transfers of colleagues. That's why we've come up with two alternates. It's gonna be one of two, but we can have that conversation with each other for a while. We find the first cover quite charming, because it also fits within the cost of labor. This coverage concerns the capping of the 30% scheme and the extraterritorial cost regime under the WNT standard. We kindly stole that from the programme of the VVD colleagues. It's a tax scheme for expats. This leads to a revenue of 94 million euros. The latest changes have already been taken into account in this estimate. The other option we had was also well stolen from colleagues' programmes. This option concerns an increase in the banking tax by increasing it to 0.027% and 0.053%. That way, 93 million can be raised. That is the cover we have in mind. I'm curious about the reactions. (NL) Mr President, finally, the remaining block. The SP asked us if it was true that this law was already in 2017. The answer is: that's right. I wasn't there then. So I can't go over how that all happened. I was just a civilian back then, hopping around the country. But from a distance, I just saw that there's a movement going on. My colleague from the SP said that just as nicely. That movement causes people to exchange thoughts and change their minds. Parties have also changed their positions. It could just be that this has contributed to the fact that this proposal is now here and not then. So much for that answer. The CDA asked if there were any adverse effects on the 29 laws that change. The aim of this legislative proposal has been precisely to achieve as little change as possible in the legislative framework as possible. This bill has therefore been submitted to SZW, UWV and the Inspection SZW for consultation. This shows that there are no policy changes. Finally, really, Mr President. I started by saying it's very honorable to be standing here. It is also very honorable because the Netherlands is one of the last countries to have this system for the statutory minimum wage. So it's really time we restored that foundation. I said it at the beginning and I say it again now: this is a first technical step to rebuild the rest of our social security systems. I hope we can all stand for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u21	Thank you very much. There is another interruption by Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u22	All the appreciation for the clear answers given by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Maatoug. The calculation example of the wheelbarrows was of course beautiful. But Mrs Maatoug said: to the Ministry of Finance with the wheelbarrow. Then I thought, "Oh, here it comes." It's very difficult for me. I hear what Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Dijk are proposing. On the one hand, there are two proposals for cover at all, which the Chamber still has to choose from. On the other hand, the bigger picture is important. This has also been discussed a number of times in the debate. There is already a hint that something will come up with the legal minimum wage. That might be possible, because I think there was something about that in all the election programmes. But it's just being formed now. We are simply thinking about these issues, with the help of wheelbarrows and money. I find it very difficult to enter a second period now, so to speak, to respond to this and make choices, when I cannot see it. This is quite apart from the fact that the proposals for cover are really asking for back-up with colleagues. So my compliments and appreciation. But in fact, I would like to suggest that we do not have a second deadline on this bill now. I think it is sensible and wise to discuss this with each other, but not to do so today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u23	Thank you. This is an order proposal, so I'm going to ask Members how they react to it. I say that Mr Gijs van Dijk wanted to respond to an amendment. Can we still do that today? I'll take a look at Mrs. Tielen for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u24	Anything's possible. I'm just a loner. Okay, I do have a couple of seats behind me. I think it would be good if Mr Van Dijk could explain the appreciation of the other Mr Van Dijk's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u25	Yes, and then your proposal is not to hold a second term after that appreciation today. I would like to ask Members how they respond to this order of business proposal. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u26	I think it's a damper, because these people have worked hard and made a beautiful law. Now it is proposed to postpone it. So I would be sorry to hear that. I would rather finish today and then vote on it as soon as possible, because I think there is a lot of support for the law. Mrs Tielen leaves a little room for manoeuvre in her proposal, because she says: perhaps not now, but at a later date. Can she at least now promise that this law will simply come to the vote and be treated properly? That's what I'm asking her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u27	Then I will let Mrs Tielen respond to that before I leave the other Members to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u28	I didn't know MPs had to make promises. I remember when I was a councilman, I got a commitment from an alderman for the first time, and I was super happy. But I didn't know MPs could do that, too. I'm not saying no. I'll turn it around a little bit. That is not a 100% guarantee, but I am not saying no, because once again, all the appreciation and compliments for the preparation. There's a lot of work in it, a lot of smart thinking too. I very much agree with the clarity. I've said that before. So I think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u29	Mr President, you will not be surprised that the PvdA is ready to vote, as is GroenLinks. But if there were anything possible with the cover and if it were now prohibitive, I would also find it a shame that the law doesn't make it. So I would like to accept the request of the VVD. Then, of course, we are going to do our best to get it done as quickly as possible, so that the law can enter into it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u30	For our part, there is also a great deal of compliments and appreciation for the authors of this wonderful proposal. We would also very much like to support the VVD's proposal. You yourself referred to the various electoral programmes and to the fact that it may also be discussed at the formation table at the moment. So I would support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u31	I note that there is support for not keeping the second term today, but for doing so at a different time. Meanwhile, time is well used to search for cover that can also be worn. I will give the initiator the floor to Mr Van Dijk to respond to the amendment tabled by the SP. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u32	Thank you. This is the amended amendment to item No. 16 members of Van Kent and Jasper van Dijk. That amendment concerns the clarification of the concept of pay in Article 6. As far as we're concerned, that's perfectly understandable, but we did check with the union. It states that this would be theoretical in particular. So we would like to see to what extent this is a real problem, before we all tear it all apart. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State, too. I just can't get a good look at it. If we are to be suspended now, we have a moment to see how we do it properly, but as initiators, we think it is a sympathetic and understandable amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u33	I think that's a very good proposal. I must honestly say that I was inspired by an opinion article by Mrs Van der Vos from February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u34	Yeah, I read that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u35	I think it would be a good idea to discuss it, so that we can park it in the law as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u36	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u37	Thank you. I would like to thank the initiators for their willingness to speak in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-21.u38	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence, although at the moment his advisory role will not be used. This may follow at a later date in the finalisation of this legal treatment. Thanks also to members for their input. The votes will then take place at a later date. I'm suspending the meetings for three minutes. Then we can proceed with a two-minute debate.
