ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the European summit on 24 and 25 May. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the MPs and the viewers at home. Speaking time depends on the size of the group. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. With your Chamber, I would like to agree that we should start from two interruptions in two in the first term of the Chamber and then two interruptions in two during the debate with the Prime Minister. The shorter and more concise the interruptions, the more I will allow. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to keep it a little more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. I would suggest that you allow three interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	As I just said, it depends on whether people are short and concise. It is the right of the President to grant an interruption or not. If the interruptions are short and powerful, I am certainly prepared to do so. But if they're tall, we'll stick to two interruptions in two. So I'm gonna look at it a little bit, with your permission. I call Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I am starting this debate by considering the worrying situation in the Palestinian territories and Israel. I will then discuss the climate crisis, which will be discussed at the European summit. Once again, they are citizens, both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side, who have been victims of a violent escalation. The Animal Party therefore strongly condemns the violence of both the Israeli authorities and the armed Palestinian groups. In the midst of this violence, we must not forget that the escalation is the result of decades of oppression, occupation and systematic violation of international law by the Israeli authorities. Generation after generation, Palestinians are subjected to structural inequality. This complex conflict can only be resolved if we also bear in mind the causes. The Animal Party therefore insists that in future the Prime Minister refrains from sending out unilateral tweets in which he refers only to Israel's right to self-defense. In his letter, Minister Blok is a bit more nuanced by recognising that Israeli settlement policy is hindering the peace process. My question to the Prime Minister is how he explains this inconsistent communication. In line with the conclusion of the letter, I ask the Prime Minister the following questions. Is he prepared, in accordance with the Karabulut motion adopted, to draw up a concrete roadmap with measures as Israel continues its occupation policy? And is he prepared to plead with his colleagues at the European summit to do the same? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the climate crisis. Two weeks ago, on Earth Day, UN Secretary-General António Guterres stated that climate change is at the edge of the abyss. The only safe step you can take at the edge of the abyss is a step back. So far, I have only heard the Prime Minister of our country, who is largely below sea level, express concern about a possible coalition agreement that should not contain too much climate. The Netherlands has now become the disgrace of Europe in terms of climate. We're dangling at the bottom of lists, like the one about the share of renewable energy, we're Europe's champion deforestation and we're getting caught up on all sides when it comes to our climate goals. Most recently by Germany, which is going to raise the target by 2030 to 65%. But Finland, Denmark and Austria also have significantly higher climate targets. The fact that the Netherlands does not join the leaders is going to avenge itself, because because of everything we do not do now, we are saddled with enormous costs and a distorted climate in the coming generations. The Animal Party wonders how a Dutch Prime Minister can still be credible in promoting an ambitious European climate policy if the Netherlands itself refuses to join in action with Europe's leaders. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the Netherlands join the European countries that are climate leaders? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the Animal Party sends a clear message to the European Summit: stop European policies that exacerbate the climate crisis. Stop concluding trade agreements which contribute to deforestation and pollution. Stop subsidising intensive livestock farming, which emits greenhouse gases, damages our nature and contributes to deforestation in the rest of the world. In addition, the UN Environment Organisation warns that the risk of over-exploitation of animal diseases to humans is increased by large-scale and intensive livestock farming. The transition to regional, more plant-based agriculture has become all the more urgent in the context of green recovery after the corona crisis. So my message is stop throwing oil on the fire. Finally, Mr President. After the Brexit, the United Kingdom announced a bill banning exports of live animals for slaughter and fattening. The EU Member States can now do nothing to put an end to this, because they are hampered by European regulations. For years there have been great dramas with long-distance animal transports: trucks that tilt and ships that capseize, with thousands of animals drowning. The EU remains behind and does not want to look for a change in the rules until two years from now. If the United Kingdom can arrange it so quickly, so can Europe, one would think. Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit to a European ban on the export of live animals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, good luck and good luck to all the colleagues who are allowed to make their maiden speech here today. It is an honor to be able to work here, but it is also special to be able to hear your personal words later. I very much look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with an issue that is not on the agenda, namely Israel and Palestine. The previous speaker also mentioned this. With horror, great horror, we look at Hamas's many missiles, at Israeli violence and at the many dead and wounded, sometimes even innocent children. We strongly condemn this. It is essential that we arrive at a ceasefire as soon as possible and that we avoid more misery. The cabinet is right to put that on the agenda as well. It's embarrassing! It is true that Hungary vetoed a European statement yesterday. But it is also essential, I say, that we break the pattern of previous conflicts, where all the political capital went to a cease-fire and where our taxpayers' money went to the reconstruction of the Gaza open-air prison, and then nothing more to do with the root causes of the conflict, nothing to do with the occupation. We have to take sides here. We must take sides here in international law. We must take sides here for human rights. Then there must be pressure from the outside, positive and negative. Let us recognize Palestine as a state. Let us give Israel security guarantees within NATO. Anything to get both parties to table equally. But above all, let us put pressure on actions that endanger the two-state solution to stop settlements, terrorism, expropriation and hatred. I would ask Mr Rutte if he is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Dan corona. With green certificates, Europe will want to open up safely in the summer. But there are still a few bumps to take with these so-called digital green certificates, to put them into use quickly and to ensure that people who have not been vaccinated can still travel with a free test. This means speeding up, but some Member States are obstructing it. They want an impact period of six weeks. As far as D66 is concerned, that takes far too long. Earlier, the cabinet said that once those certificates are in place, we're going to use them as well. I ask the Prime Minister if the cabinet still guarantees that. The Netherlands also seems to be bothered when it comes to free testing. D66 believes that we cannot make the freedom of movement dependent on the thickness of someone's wallet. In paid tests, it becomes a lot more expensive for a family with three children two-way behind to go to the campsite in Belgium. That's unfair. It nourishes inequality. Why do we not make free tests available for people who have not yet been vaccinated, so I ask the Prime Minister, so that new obligations surrounding the corona proof do not arise? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Here too a bit about the technique. We see the movement from the European Parliament in the negotiations with the Council. Colleague Sophie in 't Veld, colleagues from the CDA and colleagues from GroenLinks are working on this. But the Council is now also cutting the throat of Parliament by threatening to adopt a recommendation from the Council rather than go through European legislation. I would ask the Prime Minister not to circumvent the European Parliament in this way. Mr. Chairman. Then the climate. In December 2019, the European Green Deal was presented, with the aim of a climate-neutral Europe in 2050, a game changer, when the whole European Union really chose an ambitious climate policy. As a result of this specific objective, the Commission is preparing a legislative package to achieve this objective. These legislative proposals can be expected in mid-June, but one month before these legislative proposals come out, the European Council meets to discuss these legislative proposals. I ask the Prime Minister: why? Why is that even happening? Can Mr Rutte promise that the targets set in December 2020 will be the lower limit and that we will not lower our ambitions in an attempt to keep Central Europe in line? And can the Prime Minister also promise that we will not let our ears hang with the Central European Member States who would prefer not to pay? Mr. Chairman. Russia: the malpractices surrounding the Russian opposition politician Navalny, the way Russia used energy policy around Nord Stream, a geopolitical choke snake, the military provocation that fortunately ended but which took place around the Ukrainian-Russian border, a diplomatic riot with ally the Czech Republic, which led to the withdrawal of many diplomats on both sides... It is clear that the relationship between the EU and Russia is at least cool and perhaps at a low point. My question to this Prime Minister is: why is Russia on the agenda? The five guiding principles, the five guiding principles in the relationship between the European Union and Russia, are very clear as far as my group is concerned. The conditions imposed on Russia to reheat that relationship are also very clear. Are there any Member States that want to nibble on that? I ask the Prime Minister if there are any Member States who would like to get involved in this. And may I assume that the Dutch cabinet will do everything in its power to prevent that from happening? Of course, we need to improve people to people contacts to the maximum and, of course, in the area of climate change, I am saying what climate change really is possible with Russia, but we cannot interfere with the conditions that have been set. Finally, on this subject: what has the cabinet done in response to the various motions on Nord Stream 2 adopted in this Chamber? Brexit: I do not want to comment on the trading part, but briefly on the impact of the Brexit on Dutch people in the UK. This Chamber, as well as the First Chamber, has passed a law on this subject, the Rijkswet containment effect Brexit, which provides that the Dutch may retain their Dutch nationality in the United Kingdom if they wish to take British nationality out of need. Since the start of this year, at least 30 European citizens have been detained in British immigration detention centres. A British watchdog reports that almost half of it is almost half! Europeans in the UK have no confidence in equal treatment. So I ask the Prime Minister if the cabinet finally sees the need to activate the Brexit restriction effect. Finally, Mr President. The European Union is crucial for our security, crucial for our prosperity, crucial for our freedom. We also need to shape this as concretely as possible. That is what Dutch citizens are most interested in. But symbolism also counts. That is why my colleague Dassen van Volt and I propose that we in this Chamber also mark our pride in being a member of the European Union. We would like to propose that a new flag, a blue star with European stars, be added to the flag of red, white and blue, in the house of European democracy. But more from Mr Dassen later on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you're the oldest among the new MPs, sometimes you can go a little further back in time. The first television images I remember from the House of Representatives, when I lived in the small village of Steenderen in the Achterhoek, were during the Night of Schmelzer of 13 October 1966. He brought down the Cals cabinet. We saw some black-and-white images vibrated at home in the living room. Schmelzer got the image of a slippery man. I did an interview with him once, not a nasty man, by the way. I noticed that his living room was full of images of dachshunds, in all shapes and sizes. His nickname was "the dachshund." I had to remember this on my first working day as a member of the House of Representatives. In the meantime, it's been written as the Night of Rutte. There was no cabinet, because it had already fallen. I leave nicknames like "the dachshund" to historians. I was wondering, what happened here? Rutte's Night seemed like some kind of therapeutic session. It was like a marriage mediation between the Prime Minister and, for example, the political leader of D66. Key words were trust, intent, regret. The whole of the Netherlands could watch the country's political living room and judge for itself. Politics is about power, and politics is about money. That is the case throughout the world; do not be deceived. But each country has its own political culture to name that power struggle. The unique thing about Dutch parliamentary culture is that the struggle for power is hidden in intentions, hurt feelings and morality. Politics and psychology go together. Other parliaments have other ways of cloaking pure power. More than 20 years ago, I became a member of the European Commissioner Frits Bolkestein. I had to maintain the relationship between Bolkestein and the European Parliament, and that was not easy. Bolkestein practiced dualism in the Lower House. As party leader of the VVD, he regularly departed from his coalition colleagues, to the horror of coalition partners Van Mierlo and Kok. They were relieved when Bolkestein left for Brussels. Bolkestein introduced his Hague dualism in Brussels. That became an interesting experiment, because the EU only knows political monism: the philosophy of the "ever closer union." The EU is developing irreversibly into a federal Union, with power flowing automatically to Brussels as a kind of historical law. The European Parliament sees itself as the king of all parliaments in Europe, and in fact it is such a one-man parliament: always more EU. The only criticism allowed is: even more integration, faster and deeper. Everything else ends on the dung valley of history, to speak with Marx. In the plenary room, Bolkestein questioned that reasoning and even called Members of Parliament into question. They weren't used to that. A furious representative from Hamburg called back: Commissioner, you are not speaking here to the People's Congress of the Chinese Communist Party; we are the Parliament of Europe. The legendary Luxembourg MEP, Astrid Lulling, was also furious. She was popular as chairman of the Wine Working Group and organised wine tastings with the help of the French wine lobby. They were well visited. She demanded a low VAT rate for wine throughout the EU, because, as she said, wine is a medicine. But Bolkestein rejected that and advocated tax competition. Lulling was well rewarded for her wine promotion, because the bar of Members was named after her, the Astrid Lulling lounge, an important meeting point in each parliament in Brussels. Brussels still has an interesting parliament: the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. The Netherlands and Belgium are neighbours, but their political culture is completely different. Once I went to Belgium to get to know this opaque culture and became political editor of the newspaper De Standaard. I could compare it somewhat, because before that I worked at the NRC as a political editor in The Hague. I remember in particular the fall of the Lubbers III cabinet. Lubbers was celebrated as the longest-serving Prime Minister, with a solemn sitting, I believe in a church. Everyone called him great, genius; almost sacred. But after that, things went terribly wrong. Everything failed. And in 1994, the voter punished the CDA. His international ambitions also went up in smoke. I don't mean to be annoying, Prime Minister, but whoever has the title of longest-serving Prime Minister is in deep danger. The Belgian Chamber of Representatives turned out to be the opposite of the House of Representatives. It was always noisy. In the bar of the members, Belgian beers were drunk. There are many of them, and the evening session was easily followed by swearing. Is the Second Chamber a living room, the Chamber of Representatives is a village pub. Unfortunately, both parliaments lack self-relation and self-relation. For that, you have to be in Westminster, where Question Time is the highlight of rhetoric. It fits in with the tradition of British university debates. Humor softens confrontations, prevents hurtful words. Britons are the only people who can laugh at themselves, even in harsh times. Unfortunately, the Dutch are less gifted. They're angry too quickly, and they have an opinion on everything. Belgians are a bit more convenient: they always have different opinions in stock, at any time the right one. In Brussels, the power line is very different from that in The Hague. The federal parliament has little to say; the parties are the boss. Party chairmen, who are unknown figures in the Netherlands, make up the service. They are also called "mother-in-laws." Whoever's against the mother-in-law is out. Party leaders, still found in the Netherlands in VVD and CDA, are called "old crocodiles" in Belgian politics. Two years ago, the liberal Herman de Croo said goodbye to politics. He started as a member of parliament in 1968 and had a career of 51 years. He was the oldest among the old crocodiles. But don't worry, his son Alexander... you know him... then became Belgian Prime Minister. The family dynasty continues. In the end, the question of power was answered by Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene, a power politician in a country with six governments. He was the last prime minister to connect the entire pipework. His nickname is "The Plumber." He once said to me: politics is about majorities, everything else is poetry. Indeed, that is what the Netherlands is all about; everything else is moralism. Most prime ministers and party leaders want tight government agreements. That makes government groups by definition a prison, and condemns a parliament to merely "parlare." Others want to reverse the roles: parliament rules. But that also often ends badly. See the Fourth Republic in France from 1944 to 1958: the parliament ruled, which was also called a government d'assemblee. However, a French government lasted on average six months, and then it disappeared again. Eventually that changed with général De Gaulle: he has introduced a system with himself in the center. The Fifth Republic is still there, and the French President is actually an elected king. Finally, allow me, Mr President, to make a proposal in all modesty. I think it would be best to limit government agreements to basics and leave crucial issues to the majority of the House of Representatives. This includes the issue of Europe. The Lower House is generally opposed to more power transfer to Brussels, against a transfer union. But under group pressure, the government coalition forces the parliament to always agree. Signing at the cross is mandatory; if not, sanctions will follow. And so power flows to Brussels, of course. See the EU Emergency Fund, which pushes the Netherlands into the transfer union. It was pushed almost silently by the Lower House, just before the election, and next week the Senate votes. Therefore, explain EU themes to free issues, as well as medical and ethical issues. Let MPs judge by their own honor and conscience. The Chamber represents the Netherlands with its opinion diversity. This parliament is the soul of the country, and that is why this parliament must have the final say on the fate of this country. So stop shutting down from above, give air to what lives, and what concerns citizens. Perhaps that's the lesson from Rutte's Night. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. I congratulate you on your beautiful and special maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	I think there was a lot of stuff coming along about history, including international. I also saw the Prime Minister nod a number of times. I hope you can use your knowledge and experience well in this House of Representatives. As usual, there are no interruptions at a maiden speech; they weren't there either. I saw Mr Kuzu walking for a moment, but he's already warm to alternate you. Thanks again. At the end of the first term, you will be given room for congratulations from colleagues. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to congratulate Mr Eppink on his maiden speech. I should like to wish those colleagues who are about to make a maiden speech very much success. I will listen with particular interest. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the contribution of the Netherlands to the EU Summit. It is not on the agenda, but I cannot escape the impression that our Prime Minister is talking about it today and also tomorrow at the EU Summit. Mr. Chairman. It will happen to you: to be born in a country where life has not been given you as a child, to grow up among collapsed buildings, to learn to play with the residual waste of state-of-the-art weapons, to learn how to deal with grief, pain and frustration of your parents, to realize that only your identity is enough to be caught preventively, to end up in prison without charge or trial, without having an idea of what you're being tried for, looking at the sky every moment, waiting for bombs, searching every morning in the rubble for your nephews and nieces that you might still be able to save and grow up with devastations and bombs, posttraumatic disorders and wounds. Even the month of contemplation and rest for Muslims is not given you; you must pass the Ramadan with weapons aimed at you. It sounds like a nightmare, but this is the reality for many Palestinian children. This was the reality of the 60 Palestinian children killed in recent days by Israeli violence. This is the reality of 260 Palestinian children in Israeli prisons. This is the reality of 1 million children trapped in Gaza without hope and hope, in the largest open-air prison in the world. Mr. Chairman. It is our job as a parliament not to look away and not to make excuses, but to say what it stands for. We are in favour of justice. We're for peace. We're against oppression. We're against occupation. We're against apartheid, aren't we? In fact, you could expect the Netherlands and the Dutch Government to promote the international legal order, because it is in our Constitution, and Israel to be severely condemned and sanctions imposed. Nothing could be further from the truth. Even if it turns out that Israel has no right to stand up and that civilians are killed consciously and purposefully and children are taken from their lives, our Prime Minister is still talking about the 'right to self-defense'. That's a deep, deep shame. In the meantime, he has had thousands of e-mails about this, in which people say that Rutte does not speak on their behalf; and, President, certainly not on behalf of DENK. Mr. Chairman. Israel is guilty of human rights violations. Israel continues to occupy Palestinian territory and to steal Palestinian land to build illegal settlements there. Israel is guilty of apartheid. Mr President, my question is simple: does the Prime Minister actually recognise that? Israel has for years been violating essential articles of the UN Charter and the Geneva Convention. I'm not just saying this. This is what guardians of international law say, from the WarChild organization to the United Nations. This is what organisations like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch and also the Israeli human rights organisation B'Tselem say. The Palestinian human rights organisations are talking about systematic violations of human rights by Israel. How dare the Prime Minister talk about the right to self-defense and proportionality if it is Israel that is fooling around with international law? I'd like to get the Prime Minister's vision on this. Mr. Chairman. Is it proportional to annexing the Westbank and throwing Palestinians out of homes, because it's just possible? Gladly the Prime Minister's vision! Is it proportionate to bomb the media building in Gaza, without any threat? I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. How does the Prime Minister think a solution to this conflict can be achieved if part of the population is oppressed by a regime of apartheid? What is worth the life of a Palestinian child whose rights are violated from all sides, if we join the war criminal Netanyahu? Gladly the Prime Minister's vision! Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday the news came out that Israel is planning to blow up two schools, Al-Buraq and Al-Aqsa, which function as shelters. Every time there's the same excuse: there might be terrorists hiding. Stop that! Get rid of that right to self-defense! Finish that. Mr. Chairman. This is the toughest state terror I've ever seen. The only one who deserves this is Netanyahu, who is in a difficult political situation, because four elections have been held in the last two years and he does not succeed in forming a government. Let us follow the example of Spain, which in 2010 made Netanyahu liable for war crimes, for crimes against humanity. When do we stop our cowardice? When are we really going to protect human rights and the international legal order? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then I give... There is first an interruption by Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	An election result can, of course, lead to a political impasse, as in Israel. You can't hold elections like the Palestinian Authority. But all that aside. I was just waiting for the end of the contribution. It was one big litany towards Israel. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about this too. There are all kinds of differences between Mr Sjoerdsma and me when it comes to the conflict, but he mentioned both sides, violence on both sides and suffering on both sides. More than 3,000 missiles have been fired from Gaza on Israel. Not a word from Mr Kuzu on that. Is that a tacit approval? Does he have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	I condemn any form of violence. I also look at the root causes of violence and the way in which this conflict has escalated, which, of course, also has a historical connotation. When we look at the blazing violence, it began to evict the families from Sheikh Jarrah. There were four families placed out of the house. Then it started with the Israeli police entering the Haram al-Sharif and shooting at mosque-goers in the al-Aqsa mosque with rubber bullets. Then I can also see that rockets are being fired from Hamas. I strongly condemn that. But when we look clearly at the root causes, we see that the root cause of the escalation of this violence is that, while the international community criticises Israel for violating human rights and international law, there are no sanctions at all. I know that the discussion within the Christian Union is going on about this, too, if Mr Segers stands still and looks very closely at the root causes of this violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	I also look at the root causes and then I see that Hamas does not recognise Israel's right to exist and that Hamas is a legitimate target for any Jew anywhere in the world. That's one of the root causes. It is about Israel's right to exist. It would be a credit to Mr Kuzu if the suffering were appointed on both sides. I honestly don't understand. 3,000 missiles are fired at villages and cities at random, with the aim of hitting as many people as possible. If there was no self-defense of Israel, the Prime Minister also spoke of "legitimate self-defense". Then there was much more horrible injustice. What stopped that? That was done by legitimate self-defense. But that is what Mr Kuzu is attacking the Prime Minister. So 3,000 missiles can be fired, but if you arm yourself against it with an Iron Dome shooting those missiles out of the sky, you can get Mr Kuzu's wrath on you. I really don't understand how you can look at this conflict balanced by talking about ten minutes of all Israel's crimes, but ending up again in a litany against Israel when I ask a question about 3,000 missiles being fired. The right to self-defense is so disgruntled with Israel. I do not understand how Mr Kuzu cannot look at all people as people of flesh and blood who are entitled to peace and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	This is typically an example of selective indignation. Mr Segers has heard me start condemning any form of violence. So I also condemn rockets being fired from the Gaza Strip to Israel. I would like to emphasise that once again. But when you look at the overall situation, we can talk about the missiles fired by Hamas, but at the same time we can also look at what is happening in the historical context and with the bombings that are taking place in the Gaza Strip at the moment. And then I would also like to have an answer to the question of whether it is legitimate to bomb a building where international media are located, where people have to report on what is happening there. It is currently impossible for international journalists to monitor and report on the situation in Gaza in practice. That happens from other countries. We have to do it with social media messages. This is yet another serious violation of international law by Israel. And that's structuralally going on. Every time it comes to this, I also see political parties such as the Christian Union holding a one-sided story. I am looking forward to Mr Segers' contribution later. I'll certainly interrupt him the moment I think it's one-sided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	We are going to include that in Mr Segers' contribution. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also from me felicitations to Mr Eppink and to all the others who are making their maiden speech today. Mr. Chairman. The violence in Palestine and Israel has escalated rapidly. More than 200 deaths have already been reported on the Palestinian side, including more than 60 children. Also twelve civilians were killed in Israel, by missiles from Gaza. Everything must be aimed at stopping this violence. A ceasefire is of enormous importance. But it is also crucial to put an end to the breeding ground of this violence. That is why Prime Minister Rutte's first reaction is so disappointing. He tweeted: it's unacceptable for Hamas to fire missiles. That is true, but he does not say that Israel is also carrying out attacks on civilian targets and that in those air attacks many more people are killed, including many children. How painfully one-sided is that? Can the Prime Minister at least condemn Israel's violence today? I also refer to the debate between Mr Segers and Mr Kuzu. You should always pay attention to comparisons, but I did see a striking one in the paper this week. You could compare the Israeli army to RoboCop, and you could compare the Palestinians to Pietje Bell. And Pietje Bell may be running around occasionally, but he's bleeding on the ground right now. It is up to the international legal order to see what is happening there. That's on the table today. As long as Israeli occupation policy continues, illegal settlements are expanded, Palestinian houses are demolished and Gaza's murderous blockade is maintained, there will be no peace in the Middle East. The SP has therefore been advocating for years that more pressure should be exerted on Israel to counter this breeding ground of violence. Mr Blok's letter also makes it crystal clear: 'Israeli legislation'................................................................................................................................................................................................... How clear do you want it to be? But that also obliges the government to draw conclusions. You can speak words, but then you have to act accordingly. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister today to do the following. He's going to Brussels. Is he prepared to discuss this in the European Union? Does he want to advocate measures against Israel as long as the occupation continues? Isn't that due to international obligations? Is it not at least necessary to end the military relationship between the Netherlands and the European Union with Israel? Why, for example, is military equipment bought by the Netherlands from Elbit, an Israeli company that makes the crimes against the Palestinians possible? Will the Prime Minister in Europe also call for an arms embargo against Israel? I'd like a response. The immediate cause of the recent violence is Israeli annexation policy. In concrete terms, it concerns Palestinians in occupied East Jerusalem who are being evicted from their homes. See also Newshour of last night; painful images. I remind the Prime Minister of the adopted SP motion to identify options for action that the European Union can take against annexation of Palestinian territory. Does the Prime Minister intend to make an effort at European level to achieve a number of concrete measures against Israel if the annexation of Palestinian territory continues? If not, what are the government's words worth? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question about Israel's policy vis-à-vis the Palestinians. More and more organizations call this "apartheid." That is a loaded term, but it comes from thorough research, recently by the respected human rights organisation Human Rights Watch. Can the Prime Minister respond to this? Can he tell us what consequences he will have for Dutch policy towards the Middle East? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a point about the PCF tests, i.e. whether or not they are offered free of charge. Mr Sjoerdsma also spoke about it. The tests wouldn't be free, but then you'll get a split between travelers who can afford to pay for such a test and travellers who can't afford it. I think that's very undesirable. If necessary, set a flight ban, but do not make it impossible for people to travel through pricing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	The spokesperson of the SP compares Hamas with a Pietje Bell who is running a bit. That's a big deal. It is a terrorist, anti-Semitic organization that fires more than 3,700 missiles at random at civilian targets. Is that a Pietje Bell running around a bit? This is where the SP really sinks through the ice. For me, it is clear that the SP is attacking the terrorist, anti-Semitic organization Hamas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	I leave that last conclusion entirely to Mr De Roon. I noticed that a similar comparison was made in the newspaper. It is often said, also by Mr Segers, that it is two parties that fight with each other and that you must both condemn if they use violence. Moreover, I am very interested to hear Mr Segers' speech in this regard. Let's make one thing clear here. There is no question of an equal opponent here. And then you come to these kinds of equations. That is something you can think of, but let us be clear that Israel's dominance over the Palestinians is not enormous, but colossal. Look at the number of fatalities, not only in this war, but also in all the years before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	And I'll say, "Thank goodness there's a preponderance." Above all, we must ensure that it remains so. If Hamas, that anti-Semitic terrorist organization gets the upper hand, then the real thing is the turnips.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	Then I can only conclude that the PVV has no respect for international law and agrees with discriminatory legislation from Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	Then there is Mr Segers' second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	Back to that comparison, because it stings me too. Hamas aims to hit as many civilians as possible. Israel is still trying to get as little citizens as possible in a densely populated area where they are trying to find goals that could be legitimate from their point of view. You can discuss that further, but that's the difference. But more than 3,000 rockets on villages and cities, where people sometimes have 15 seconds to run from the school where they sit, the place where they work, to a shelter... there are deaths. It's really about firing rockets at random. Pietje Bell who's a little messed up? That's really out of place, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	I just explained the context in which you need to see that equation. I don't approve of Hamas' missiles. In fact, I also disapprove of anti-Semitism, wherever it is, at any demonstration. It's also heavily tweeted. It's absolutely wrong. But we must keep our heads down, I would like to say to Mr Segers. And then we have to see that Israel is the upper party, that Israel is the party here that takes the Palestinian territories further and makes them smaller and smaller. The Palestinians are the underlying party: more than 200 dead as opposed to 12 Israeli dead. Hamas rockets? Wrong, Mr Segers. But it is time to appeal to Israel for the colossal force majeure and the brutal violence they are applying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think there is also another perspective, namely a very small Jewish state in a region that does not allow that state to see the light in its eyes. That is another perspective, in which you can judge very differently about the difference in power than when you zoom in on the Israel-Palestine ratio. We're talking about a terrorist organization that's doing everything in its power, all its money, all its time in getting as many rockets and digging tunnels as possible to attack civilians and that sees every Israeli, every Jew as a legitimate goal. I really want to put something on Mr Van Dijk's heart again: say what you want to say about Israel. That's all legitimate. Let's have a political discussion about whether it's proportional, about the future of the West Bank, about a just peace between the two peoples. Everyone craves peace, at least I do. But an organization that explicitly aims to wipe Israel off the map, which believes that Israel should leave, which openly says that every Jew, wherever in the world, is a legitimate goal, is not helping. This is indeed reflected once again in demonstrations in European cities, where there is screaming: Muhammad's army is coming back to catch Jews. Every Jew is therefore a legitimate goal in this respect. And then say, "Pietje Bell; glands"? Really, don't. That does not help your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	It is incredibly handsome how Mr Segers manages to frame this conflict. You really get the idea that Israel has a problem here, rather than the Palestinians. But history makes him very wrong. Look at the past decades: it is the Palestinians who are losing. You also know the maps of areas on the Palestinian side that are increasingly declining, and of the area that Israel is increasingly taking. I'll never hear about that. It is not that Israel is threatened in its survival, Mr Segers. The Palestinians are threatened in their survival. I'll never hear about that. Israel violates international law and discriminates against it. I don't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	However, a little bit along the lines of what Mr Segers has just said. The key question is, of course, whether the SP believes that the State of Israel has the right to exist, and according to whether the State of Israel has the right to defend its borders, as a sovereign state is entitled to do in international law. What is the response of Mr Van Dijk van de SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	Oh, yeah. That makes sense to me, as any state has that right. But that's the whole point. The question is not whether Israel has the right to exist, because that is all right. The question is whether the Palestinians have the right to exist, because that is not so good. Of course, a two-state solution has been discussed for a very long time. I am also curious to hear your opinion on this. It is not Israel that is threatened in its survival, Mr. Bishop. It's the Palestinians. The question is whether we want to achieve a decent state for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	I don't know if I should call this naivety or look away. If thousands of mortars, grenades, rackets and weaponry are fired by a terrorist organization, and there's an answer, then you can't say: Pietje Bell called; how bad, because now he's getting a cup smaller? Then where is the recognition by the SP that Israel has the right to defend its borders and its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	I do not know whether Mr Bishop is listening, but I started by saying yes to the Prime Minister, because he rightly condemns Hamas' rocket fire on Israel. That part of his tweet's okay. But I missed another part of that tweet, namely the condemnation of Israel for disproportionate violence against the Palestinians. See the numbers, Mr. Bishop. Who the hell is the underlying party of these two? Give me a straight answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	It seems clear to me that we should be pleased that Israel is not the underlying party, because then there was no Jew left in the whole area between Jordan and the sea. Then the state of Israel would have been wiped out. I think Mr Van Dijk is making a nice start, neatly followed. A sovereign state that does nothing but defend its population and borders in response to entrapment, violence and attacks, he then portrays as a criminal state. In addition, he takes the word "apartheid" in the mouth once again without any cans or blushing. Then you're a little surprised at the thinking lines behind this, or they're missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	I quote the cabinet: 'discriminatory legislation contrary to international law'. Israel is in breach of international law. It is not the Israeli state that is about to disappear, but it is the Palestinian state that is disappearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA. It's also her maiden speech today. I wish her every success. It is always nice to see that colleagues are in the Chamber right now to celebrate this moment. I call Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That I make my maiden speech during a debate on Europe fills me with pride, because before me and my family, Europe stands for freedom and solidarity. At the age of 16, my father fled from his native Hungary. It was 1956. He saw no future there, because in that part of Europe there was darkness. In search of freedom, he crawled under the Iron Curtain, literally, through a traumatic experience he couldn't talk about for the rest of his life. But in the Netherlands he was welcomed with open arms. On the radio there was even a warm welcome from Queen Juliana in Hungarian. It's a beautiful gesture. In her speech Her Majesty said: the unity of the Netherlands, which is always there, but which is present in times of need, triumphs again, because we feel their need as ours. Feeling their need like ours. During the summer vacation we always drove by car to my grandparents. Every time we got to the Hungarian border, my father said, "We're back in that dark country." When I was a little girl, I couldn't figure that out. It was summer and the sun shined, wasn't it? It was not until years later that I understood that "dark" stood for him: unfree. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, I grew up on the right side of the Iron Curtain, in a country where I am free, where I was given opportunities and where I can now work as a Member of Parliament for others. For people who have always lived in freedom, it is difficult to understand how vulnerable freedom is. For although every historical comparison with communism is flawed, I dare say that our core values of freedom and solidarity in today's Europe are under pressure again. They're under pressure in Central Europe. A third of Polish territory is now a LGBTI-free zone. And journalists in Hungary are made impossible. These core values are also under pressure at our external borders, in the reception of refugees. One Moria camp burned down, the other was rebuilt. Those core values are even under pressure in our own country, as the parents in the supplement affair have felt painfully. We must never forget. Freedom is a fragile possession. Solidarity between people is fragile. That 16-year-old boy, my father, fled the darkness, into the Europe of freedom and solidarity, a great asset that must be defended and cherished. And although I have lived in freedom all my life, I will never take it for granted. In fact, this is my biggest motivation in politics. Mr. Chairman. Let me turn now to the order of the day, the European Council. First of all, the corona coordination. Where opportunities in life are usually difficult to quantify, it is quite easy in this case. People living in low-income countries are estimated to have to wait another four years for a vaccine. That is not only unjust, but also unwise. The Biden Government has declared itself in favour of suspending patent law. For the cabinet, it seems to be a question of whether such a suspension will accelerate global production. My question is where this hesitation comes from. Does this have anything to do with pressure from the pharmaceutical industry? Also on the agenda is the Digital Green Certificate, which should make free travel within the EU possible again this summer. If it is up to my group, then this certificate must be free of charge if this is to come. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister why the Netherlands has vowed this. Then about Russia. I walk with you long enough to know that foreign policy is unpredictable and partly unpredictable. Yet it must be driven by values. Would it not be a strong signal towards autocrat Putin if we suspended work on the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline? What is the government's position and what arrangements have been made with Moscow on this matter? The relationship with Russia is historical and complex, but I do not hope that the search for more European unity in Russia policy will result in the lowest common denominator. It is good that the Prime Minister also intends to address Russia's lack of cooperation in the MH17 investigation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on Israel-Palestine. Over the last few days, we've all been eyewitness to horrible images. At least 12 deaths on the Israeli side and more than 200 Palestinians, including 61 children, have been killed. A nightmare. My group is committed to Israel's right to exist. We strongly condemn Hamas' missile attacks. But Israel, as the strongest party, also has a great responsibility for de-escalation. At the same time, we must not forget the cause of this conflict: the expulsions in East Jerusalem, the invasion of the Al-Aqsamoskee during the Ramadan and the settlements policy of the Netanyahu government. It becomes painfully clear once again that the status quo of more than 50 years of illegal occupation is not sustainable. The losers of this conflict are the benevolent Israelis and Palestinians who want to live side by side in peace. As far as my group is concerned, all diplomatic efforts must now be aimed at stopping violence, at allowing Palestinians to continue living in their homes in East Jerusalem and at preventing further expansion of settlements. Does the Prime Minister agree and, if so, in what way does the cabinet commit itself to doing so? Has the government also been in contact with the Americans, who, up to three times, vetted a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire? Finally. It is understandable that the situation in Israel and Palestine raises feelings in our country, both among the Muslim community and among the Jewish community. Organising demonstrations and solidarity actions is a democratic right, but we must not tolerate any form of anti-Semitism or Muslim hatred. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Congratulations on your beautiful and impressive maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV. Mrs van der Plas has signed out. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "If the Arabs lay down their weapons, there will be no more war. If Israel lays down his weapons, there will be no more Israel." This winged statement touches the core of the problem: the shared anti-Semitic hatred among Muslims, who do not tolerate the Jewish state and have the desire to destroy Israel. That is the poisonous cocktail that we see everywhere, not only in the Gaza Strip or in Tehran, but also in our own country. This hatred is the fuel behind the thousands of rockets, I told you: there are over 9,700 people who have been fired from Gaza on civilian targets in Israel. They have been fired by terrorists who must be severely condemned by all of us, just as Israel's right of self-defense should naturally be supported and supported by Parliament. But what do we see here? The arrows are mainly directed at Israel by the left, just like the rockets. Not Hamas and Islamic Jihad are under a magnifying glass, but Israel must be investigated and condemned according to the leftist cabal. That is to get nauseous, just like the images of the pro-Palestine demonstrations in the Netherlands. These are meetings where the hatred of Israel and the Jews sprang from, where "Allahoe akbar" and "Heil Hitler" were called, which was here on the Malie field, and where the message was proclaimed that Israel should be replaced by a caliphate. What a caliphate means, ISIS taught us. Mr. Chairman. Demonstrations against the corona policy on the Malieveld were broken up, but these demonstrations were apparently allowed by our government. That's incomprehensible and cowardly. That is unworthy of the Netherlands, I say in the direction of the Prime Minister. This also applies to the reaction of the cabinet, because it takes verbatim distance from the demonstrations, but does that absolve a little too literally. Because last weekend the hordes of anti-Semites were able to pave their way freely through the cities. And that's got to be different, Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants to know what the Prime Minister is going to do to cut off new anti-Semitic demonstrations that call for violence, and they will undoubtedly come to an end immediately. Has the Prime Minister, for example, already had contact with the mayors of the major cities about this phenomenon? Is there going to be an instruction to intervene immediately if those anti-Semitic slogans are echoing through our cities again? In short, will there be any measures, or will the government stand idly by? Mr. Chairman. Could it be that the Prime Minister is afraid to intervene because he still wants to do business with left-wing pro-Palestinian parties such as GroenLinks, the SP and D66? It was very striking that the Prime Minister changed his tone about Israel after the pressure from the left. From support for Israel, the Prime Minister, following that criticism from the left, turned to a softer statement in which the terror groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad were suddenly silenced. However, Israel was taught a lesson from the Tower, namely that it has to act proportionally. A misplaced message from the Prime Minister, because there is no army in the world that is as precise and proportional as that of Israel, at least much better at that point than what the Netherlands has done. The Netherlands did not send any warning text messages, nor did any pawnowners call before bombing terror targets in Iraq. Mr. Chairman. Where war is waged, death falls. Unfortunately, civilian deaths, too. In this case Hamas and its associates are responsible for this. Hamas places rockets and fires them from between their own women and children. Hamas is hiding under or behind journalists, so Israel quite rightly destroys a large tower in Gaza where, in addition to Hamas' offices and his intelligence services, there were also press offices. There they were, in front of the ruins, the journalists who did not want to see or indeed did not see Hamas' presence, which is also part of the problem. After all, they like to film in hospitals, but never from terror tunnels, missile storage sites or below Hamas offices. What we obviously do not want to see is the bad role played by states such as Turkey, Qatar and Iran, countries that support Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorists. They don't just do that verbally. Why isn't this getting any attention? Last year, for example, Turkey gave shelter to a dozen Hamas leaders and a passport, a Turkish passport. I would like to know what action is being taken on this matter from the Prime Minister. Has Turkey actually been confronted with these facts? More importantly, how will these terrorists be prevented from ever travelling to the Netherlands with their Turkish passport? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. I appeal to the Prime Minister, I must say to the Netherlands, not to interfere in the process of claiming Jewish Israeli houses they owned a long time ago. That case is still pending before the Israeli Supreme Court. Then let that court decide and don't interfere. Nor do we tolerate foreign interference in our legal proceedings, so do not do so in the other way. Finally, Mr President. The PVV believes that the Netherlands as an independent country, regardless of what the UN or the EU wants or does not want, should have the backs against terror. The Netherlands must stand by Israel in word and gesture. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to stop all support for Palestinian organisations. The money that we can save this year can be offered to Israel for the purchase and production of "Iron Dome" rockets. Let us make it clear in words and gestures that we support Israel's right to self-defense and that the Islamic anti-Semitic policy of hatred and terror must never win. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Eppink and Mrs Piri on their maiden speeches. I share the feeling with Mrs Piri, who has put it beautifully, that she is not only Dutch but also European. I'm Achterhoeker of origin. I share that with Mr Eppink, as do his love of politics. Even if I have to say, it started with me a little later. I am thinking in particular of the oil crisis and Den Uyl, who was on television a lot at the time. What I particularly want to discuss today is the fact that we are seeing another very violent asymmetrical war between Israel and Palestine. Let me be clear: we condemn both Hamas' rocket attacks and the offensive bombings by the IDF, the Israeli army. Every victim is one too many. GroenLinks wants an immediate ceasefire and finds it unacceptable that Israel, in particular, has ignored all calls to do so until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	Does Mr Van der Lee know which of these two parties actually has the best anti-missile shield?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	I know that very well, and that's why I was talking about offensive bombing. I really think that defending against rocket attacks is something other than air strikes and bombing in an area where 2 million people live, mainly in a shot-down city. I've been there a lot. I emphasise that difference by talking about offensive bombings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	I do not think Mr Van der Lee is aware of my point, because I believe Hamas has the best defence weapon. Best defense weapon. Let me explain to you why that is. If Hamas just doesn't shoot missiles at Israel, then Hamas isn't attacked by Israel either. It's the best you can do: you don't do anything yourself and the other side doesn't do anything either, done. Does Mr Van der Lee agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	Well, no. I don't agree with you. No, no. I can also explain why. This conflict, which has been going on for decades, has only led to further escalation on both sides. In doing so, the most extreme views have been given ample opportunity, because Israel has not managed to establish itself in accordance with international law in a way that will give the Palestinians a future in the area to which they are entitled. This has led to an escalation over and over again and to a situation in which extremists are in charge. Hamas has been able to conquer a dominant position in Gaza. They really do not represent the 2 million people who live there. I've spoken to many of them myself. It is true that Hamas is the product of Israeli politics and, more importantly, that their position is now strengthened by the war that is raging now. And that war was started by an annexation policy, a colonial way of governing, which systematically discriminates against people, which deprives Palestinians of homes and deprives them of land. It's gonna trigger a reaction. Excessive action at the Al-Aqsamoskee, leading to a reaction. Hamas has also issued a warning. They have asked Israel: stop the way you are doing around the mosque, in terms of police deployment. They didn't listen to that. Yeah, I'll give you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr De Roon's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mr President. The fact remains that the battles that are now taking place by Hamas have started. They started it right now. They didn't have to do that and because they did, they're getting a lot over them now. I also agree with Mr Van der Lee when he says that Israel has played a role in Hamas' existence. I do not know whether we mean the same thing, but at least I mean that giving out of the hands of the Gaza Strip, the self-determination of the Gaza Strip, by Israel, has been a major mistake. That should never have happened. Then we would not be in this situation, in which Hamas simply decides that there will be a war against Israel. And Israel must respond. You can't expect that to happen. They must defend their own people and they must also ensure that Hamas is weakened again. You can't deny all that. Hamas started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u50	The difference between you and me and our parties is that I also look at the root causes. Where does a conflict begin? You're only going to make that point when the first missile is fired. If you don't see what happened before, we'll never get together. In addition, we too have played a role in strengthening Hamas' position. The last elections in the Palestinian territories in 2006 led to a majority for Hamas. That would have been an opportunity to normalize them towards a political organization. We, together with all the Western countries and Israel, have ensured that this cannot continue. Since then, there have also been no democratic elections at all. I regret that, too. I'm gonna say something about that later. But we, too, share a responsibility for Hamas' extremist development.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Others have already mentioned the numbers, but I would like to repeat them. Not only now more than 200 victims on the Palestinian side, including, I believe, 63 children, but also 12 on the Israeli side. Every victim is one too many. But this too is a pattern. Over the past 13 years, we have seen that there are over 20 on the Palestinian side of every regrettable death on the Israeli side. Apart from the difference in fighting power, economic and political power, these figures express how asymmetric this conflict is. No matter how you judge the conflict, it is clear that Israel is the strongest and superior party. This new explosion of violence could thus have been prevented if the Israeli Government had been forced by much more international pressure to stop its perverse colonial policy. The continuing combination of annexations, expropriation and excessive police action, combined with systematic discrimination against Arabs within Israel itself, is not addressed as a root cause, too little by the Netherlands, the European Union and the international community. The leadership of the Palestinian Authority and Hamas also have more regard for their own position than they do to serve the interests of the Palestinian people. That does not alter the fact that there is not only a right to self-defense. The fact that the Prime Minister explicitly emphasised this in his tweet, but did not mention that Palestinians also have the right, within the limits of international law and proportionality, to oppose colonial repression and expropriation, is a huge blunder. As well as he should have condemned the offensive bombings that took place in Gaza from Israel. My question is, how did that tweet come about? Did the government even speak with one voice here? Because a day later, I saw a tweet by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Mrs Kaag. She said that our Constitution calls for all violations of international law to be appointed and countered and that this does not include selectivity. In a statement on Sunday, the Minister is trying to restore balance. Doesn't he regret that tweet? What I then ask of the Dutch Government are further efforts to get that ceasefire off the ground as soon as possible. With Mr Sjoerdsma, I deplore the attitude of Hungary, which has blocked a strong statement of Europe. This is another proof that we must get rid of the veto in European foreign policy, otherwise we will again be powerless, even in this type of conflict. Does the Prime Minister agree with me on that point? In addition, I hope that the Prime Minister will be prepared to state at the European summit tomorrow that the Netherlands wants further steps towards lasting peace after the ceasefire and that the largest party, the upper party, also has the greatest responsibility to take steps in this regard. There's pressure in there, there's pressure in there, there's pressure in there, there's pressure in there, I would like to mention the cessation or suspension of military cooperation, any economic pressure. Suspension of the Association Agreement has been mentioned more often. Will the Dutch Government take that step, yes or no? I would like to comment specifically on the bombing of the mediators, or the building where there was a lot of international media. Associated Press has indicated that we have been in this building for fifteen years; we have not seen Hamas' activities at all. The US authorities inform via the media that they have not seen any evidence of the IDF that Hamas activity has taken place there. Will the Prime Minister be committed to an independent investigation into at least that particular bombardment? Because it is crucial that it is precisely from conflict areas that media can report directly itself in order to get some of the objective facts on the table. This attack is, in our opinion, contrary to international law and certainly not proportionate, on the basis of the information we have now. What is the Prime Minister's opinion on this? I am also going to talk about two other issues. I would like to join others, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Piri, in their plea about corona and free PCR tests. I find the Dutch attitude incomprehensible, especially since it is now mainly the young people who seem to be responsible for the policy we have pursued here in the Netherlands. It is right that we should be aware of vulnerable groups and that we should start vaccination at the highest age, but that means that young people have not been vaccinated before the summer. They, of all people, must be tested at a high rate before they can make a trip abroad. From this point of view, too, we find it unacceptable that the Netherlands opposes the European approach to making tests available free of charge. I would also like to join the questions about Nord Stream 2. We have talked about this many times, but that is crucial. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one sentence on climate change. There is a lot at stake, but I hope the Prime Minister agrees with GroenLinks that it is not wise to bring the built environment and mobility under the ETS system. This is bad for the support base and it is not productive for our own national climate policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u54	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much for the floor. I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Eppink and Mrs Piri for their fine and personal maiden speeches. Nice. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is also waiting for an extremely interesting European Council. Let me add to the custom that colleagues have established here by starting with the question of Israel and the Palestinians: the dangerous hostilities between the two peoples. Again. The footage is coming in. They hurt, and they make us long for peace. The SGP underlines Israel's full right to defend itself against the recognised terrorist organisation that Hamas is. It has been firing rockets on Israel for a long time and almost daily. The fact that these missiles are unguided and are therefore blind to civilians is in itself a violation of international war law by Hamas, as is the use of civilians as human shields. The SGP Group supports the call for a ceasefire, but not if such a ceasefire is just a pause that will give Hamas the opportunity to resupply themselves with missiles and to bring them into line. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with us that a ceasefire involves Hamas' condition of disarmament, so that it can really serve peace or at least maintain the status quo, and hopefully improve relations. The SGP also sees Hamas' hostile actions as a cynical and strategic attempt to set up the international community against Israel. Iran's influence, one of the most aggressive troublemakers in the Middle East, is growing dangerously. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to express his support for Israel at EU level. Moreover, the SGP is deeply concerned about the eruptions of anti-Semitism in Dutch cities, but also elsewhere in the world. That during pro-Palestinian demonstrations is waved with IS flags, among other things, is a sign on the wall. How does the Netherlands take action against such statements of support to genocide victims? What possibilities does the Prime Minister see for the police to intervene here? Mr. Chairman. Then the COVID-19 coordination. The SGP Group is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u55	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u56	We also condemn the sad picture. I will also mention what is going on in my speech in a moment. In the short term, we are all seeking a ceasefire. If there is a ceasefire, Mr Bishop just used the great word 'peace'. What does the SGP see as new steps towards peace? Can you give some substance to that? What are the first steps, or better yet, the first steps we want to give the Prime Minister today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u57	That is a heartwarming question; thank you for that! I mean that sincerely. If I had images of how you could achieve peace there in this escalated situation, I would like to share them. To be honest, I'm running out of courage. That is why I would prefer to talk about a status quo, which hopefully prevents the re-arming and which hopefully can be a step towards normalising relations with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u58	That is the danger, all of us here, and fortunately we also have a number of new MPs here, some who are making their maiden speech today and some who are new spokesmen on Europe. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that courage should not fall into our shoes? That we have the great task of defining small steps for the emerging generations, each from its own point of view? You called the word "peace." I like that very much. I would also very much like to see with the SGP and with the other people here in the room how we can take these small steps together, hand in hand. I think that's what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u59	I very much agree with that. To put that in a biblical term: I wish that whole area "shalom." Shalom is indeed peace and absence of war and violence, but also good human relations with each other, peace, prosperity and so on. That is what I wish for, but I am afraid that the human capacity to take further steps in this area is inadequate. But every step we can take to achieve that, we must certainly try. I agree. Thank you for these stimulating words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u60	That's right, little steps forward. But I think we can also name the root causes of the escalation. Mr Bishop just said in an interruption with Mr Jasper van Dijk that without cans or blush the word 'apartheid' is being used. I'd like to ask him what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm noticing a fact. I note that some Members of this House are not only doing this, but also doing so in texts which I see as being accused of apartheid in the direction of the State of Israel. I always wonder about that. Then I wonder what historical awareness lies behind it, because the apartheid, as it once arose in South Africa, had a very different basis than the situation you find in the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr Bishop also points out that there is a certain intention behind this or, in his own words, lack of knowledge. What, then, was Mr Bishop's intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u63	For the sake of clarity, does Mr Kuzu mean the intention of colleagues who use the word or the intention of the politics that is designated as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Bishop said: without cans and blush, the word 'apartheid' is taken in the mouth; I wonder with what intent. That is what Mr Bishop said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u65	And your question to Mr Bishop is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u66	What does he mean by that intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u67	Oh, if I understand correctly, I can explain it in this way: I wonder why people or writers use the word "apartheid," a word with a very specific charge and with a very legal system as the basis, to describe the situation in Israel. Those are such totally different realities, just as well as you don't call soup "fla," to put it this way. It's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u68	I could ask endless questions about this equation, but let's not. I wonder whether Mr Bishop has taken note of the latest reports of Human Rights Watch, for example, which talks about an apartheid regime, Amnesty International and the Israeli human rights organisation B'Tselem. I wonder if Mr Bishop thinks that there is a certain intention behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u69	Of course there's an intention to do that. That is also why I asked Mr Van Dijk why he and that kind of agency use these words. They are not necessary to outline the situation. It also means that a false picture of the situation is outlined. I think it's a bit of a lack of historical awareness, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u70	In conclusion, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u71	Let's separate ourselves from the historical awareness, let's look at the practice. Let me take the simple example of Sheikh Jarrah. When Israelis can prove that there was ever a piece of land in their possession in history, they can claim it. When Palestinians can prove that there was ever a piece of land in their possession in Israel, they cannot claim it. So these are two different types of legal systems for different groups of people based on origin. Is that perhaps going towards a definition of apartheid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u72	Perhaps Mr Kuzu would be more or less right if this situation were as simple and one-dimensional as Mr Kuzu is proposing. However, if you look a little further into this problem, you will see that it is extremely complex in terms of civil law, which is not about ethnic backgrounds, but about the difficulty of undisputed proof of the possibility of exercising rights. I find it very cheap to tell you from here: look, that's apartheid. I therefore find it strange that human rights organisations, which at least present themselves as such and sometimes do a really good job, should lend themselves to this type of practice. I'm sorry about that. This undermines the reliability that you would like to attribute to their reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u73	Your last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u74	I have kept to your invitation to put the questions as short as possible. I really did my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u76	I still have a quote from Church in need for Mr. Bishop. Maybe that's an organization that can talk to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u77	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u78	They indicate that the Israeli Government discriminates against and is therefore the main cause of the lack of freedom in Palestine. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u79	Nonsense. I'll keep it as short as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u80	That is a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr President, shall I move on then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u82	You continue your speech... No, Mr Kuzu, very briefly and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u83	In conclusion, Mr President. I know that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with a number of other political parties, is working hard against Christian persecution wherever in the world. Does Mr Bishop also realize that there is Christian persecution in Palestine and Israel, and that the discriminatory Israeli government is guilty of this? What is Mr Bishop's reaction to that? Do those Christians in Palestine and Israel also count when he makes a speech about the persecution of Christians in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u84	We have regular contacts on this point too. Several Palestinian families are Christians, so we do have an eye for that. However, the nature of persecution and disadvantage of Christians, if any, by the State of Israel is totally different from that of dozens of Islamic states. Let me leave it at that, Mr President, otherwise we will come up with a completely new theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u85	No, Mr. Kuzu. You had a brief interruption, but you did ask a lot of questions, and I would like to treat everyone equally. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr President, thank you. I'm coming to the COVID-19 coordination. It will be known that the SGP is not for a digital green certificate. Firstly, this can lead to direct or indirect vaccination and discrimination. Secondly, the SGP is concerned about the protection of personal data, because a medical database around such a green certificate will be a gold mine for hackers. And in digital traffic, nothing is waterproof, as the recent SolarWinds hack shows. Does the Cabinet share our concerns in this regard? Thirdly, the SGP Group does not see the need for a European corona passport, if only because many people have long been in possession of the so-called yellow booklet. Why add a green book if we already have a yellow book? Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group supports the commitment to international solidarity from the outset. Let us work hard on the global availability of vaccines and on scaling up global production to that end. We would like to hear that the Prime Minister is going to take a personal look at this, because then we know that something is going to happen. Surely a prime minister can't be ashamed of that kind of trust? Mr. Chairman. Then the climate. In 2019, the Chamber adopted a motion expressing concerns about the subsidiarity of European climate ambitions for the policy areas for which Member States are primarily responsible, such as the built environment. How was this motion carried out? The Court wants European agreements in those areas where Member States really need each other. This does not apply to a sector such as the built environment. My question is: why is the cabinet so enthusiastic about the tightening up of the Efficiency Sharing Regulation or the Brussels targets for national sectors outside the emissions trading system? Mr. Chairman. Then I had a little cup about Russia. Do you want me to wrap that up first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u87	Why don't you finish your story first? Then I'll give Mr. Van der Lee...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u88	We are dealing with border troops, large-scale hack attacks and last but not least the MH17 case. Unfortunately, the EU still lacks much-needed consensus. Thus Germany continues with the Nord Stream 2 project. What about the implementation of our motion on reducing European dependence on Russian gas? That motion was passed last year, six months ago. I look forward to seeing progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u90	I had a question about the part of Mr Bishop that was about covid. His position on the certificate is clear to me. But apart from the certificate, there are countries that are already asking for a negative test for access. Where is the SGP in the discussion on whether or not to test for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u91	We as SGPs are not in favour of this as such, but it is decisions that countries can make themselves. If you want to go to Spain and ask for such proof, you will have to comply with it. If you're going to more tropical countries, you might as well be able to show that you've had certain vaccinations. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u92	I get that. That's right. If that's what they're asking you to do, you have to meet it. But the discussion is about the following. If that is decided on at European level, regardless of what you think of it, do you think that the Dutch government should make it available for free, otherwise you will get inequality between people who can and cannot afford it? Moreover, it particularly affects young people, because they are not yet vaccinated, because they will not be able to do so before the summer. I was curious to see where Mr Bishop stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u93	That is actually the background to the question. I've heard your contribution on that. As a group, we have not yet expressed an opinion on whether these tests should be free of charge or not. There are reasonable, rational arguments under your argument. I also read and hear other arguments. We have not yet taken a final position on this, but we will certainly take your contribution with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Eppink and Mrs Piri. They were beautiful maiden speeches, in which it became clear that the personal is also full of politics and also plays a full role in political positions. Thanks for letting us have a look at that. Good luck and good luck in this room. I look forward to good debates, perhaps already today. Unlike colleagues, who all started with Israel and the Palestinians, I will end with that. I'll start with the COVID-19 coordination. We're all hoping for more room for manoeuvre. You can see the vaccination is paying off. At the same time, the question is what the Dutch position is when it comes to the digital green pass. I agree with the questions put by Mr Sjoerdsma, who says: let us now work to remove thresholds, especially for young people who have not yet been able to be vaccinated. At the same time, it has always been important for our group to retain the freedom that people have to be vaccinated. I will do so myself and encourage people to do so, but people must be free to make a choice. That is why freedom should also be given to people who, for whatever reason, do not want to be vaccinated. These people should eventually be able to travel freely, so it is nice that there is a tie-up of test and vaccination. But then the question is whether an expensive test, especially at a commercial station, does not raise a very high threshold; hence my support for Mr Sjoerdsma's question. Let us remove that threshold and ensure that people can move freely, but within the security and borders of our continent. For example, we may also be able to ensure that people can not only access commercial test streets, but also, for example, a GGD Test for Access location. Madam President. There is also a discussion on the intellectual property of vaccines. If we take away the patent, it could possibly promote production in countries such as India and South Africa. That could really make a difference there. Especially in India we see images of how dramatic that is. It would be nice if that could make a difference. I would therefore like to ask the question as to how we are in the Netherlands. In view of our own contribution to vaccination and the financial contribution to its development, does that not also give us the legitimacy to commit ourselves to suspending the patent and further producing those vaccinations, so that India also sees light at the end of the tunnel? I support the cabinet's call for 55% in terms of greenhouse gas reductions. Support that. As far as relations with Russia are concerned, I support the cabinet's commitment to promoting greater unity within the European Union in order to promote common European values and interests towards Russia. I would specifically like to ask what possibilities the Prime Minister sees for defending the position of Aleksej Navalny, someone who is fighting for freedom and democracy, who has been extremely brave in it and who pays a high price for it. What opportunities do we have to stand up for him? Finally, Madam President, Israel and the conflict with the Palestinians. I hope for peace. I hope that a fair solution will be found for both parties and that the suffering and the conflict will be brought to an end. That end will be when both peoples accept each other's presence and existence, and those others do not want to think away or hope that the other one is no longer there. This therefore calls for a genuine acceptance of the other, and for the other to be considered primarily as a human being and not as an enemy. I also regret any loss of life, from whoever, wherever. But what is at stake now, after more than 3,000 missiles from Gaza, is not a proportional reaction. That is Israel's right to exist as a safe place for Jews in a world full of anti-Semitism. That's what's at stake. In that sense, I was also able to understand the Prime Minister's first reaction. For a country with such a loaded history, for a people with such a loaded history, in a world in which anti-Semitism always and everywhere turns its head, I could very well understand that the Prime Minister stressed and defended the right to self-defense. The big question, of course, is how the European Union can be a force for peace and how our involvement in it can be balanced. I also refer to the role of Iran, as did Mr Bishop, as a major arms supplier of both Hamas and Hezbollah. That is extremely worrying. What particularly affects me when it comes to the European continent and our own country were the scenes in which we saw that the tension was passing from there to our streets and that there was pronounced anti-Semitism. That was visible in slogans and was audible. I would be happy if this were also condemned by the European Union. Would the Prime Minister like to make a commitment to this and also encourage his colleagues to fight together against this evil? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u97	It is very serious what is happening in Israel and Palestine. That's what we agree on, I think, very soon. But once again I hear the emphasis on Israel's right to self-defense. What does he think of Israel's excessive violence towards the Palestinians, with more than 200 deaths against 12 Israeli deaths? What does he think of the Israeli attack on civilian targets in Gaza? What does he think of the attack on those mediators? Does he ever publicly deny that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u98	I find it very difficult to reject that, because there are very strong indications that missiles have been fired from those mediators. Israel warns, in order to put an end to this, everyone who is in that tower to leave. There are strong indications that, of course online and not physically, I have also been researching that rockets have indeed been fired off. If Israel is still trying to warn people who work there so that they can find a safe way, then I do not know if it is disproportionate. What is proportional to Mr Van Dijk when 3,000 missiles are fired at you from an area? What if there is a country here along the border that says: actually, the Netherlands should not be there, and we are going to randomly fire 3,000 missiles at villages and cities in the hope of meeting as many citizens as possible? So what's proportional? I sincerely see an attempt by Israel to be proportionate. I see Hamas missiles, a substantial percentage of which crashes on its own territory and causes additional suffering. Hamas is already causing additional suffering to Palestinians. I find it hard to find that disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u99	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yeah, I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u101	This can't be! I have great respect for Mr Segers. We work well together on all kinds of other files. But when it comes to Israel, there is a kind of blind spot and nothing negative can ever be said about Israel again. Not a single word of criticism, even now, while it is obvious that television is turning on, read the newspapers that Israel is the upper party here and war crimes are being committed. The least you could say, Mr Segers, is: I also see the reports and see that a lot of violence is being used by Israel towards the Palestinians, so let's start investigating the attack on those mediators independently. But I also mention reports of attacks on civilian targets. Let us put it this way: if Israel attacks civilian targets and falls dead, do you reject them, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u102	If Israel were to aim at hitting as many civilians as possible and killing civilians, if that is really the goal, then I absolutely reject it. That would be wrong. But what I see is that Israel is genuinely trying to hit military targets, hit missile installations. If the random bombing of Gaza was the target, we would have seen completely different scenes. We'd have seen completely different scenes. If you ask me how I look at it, I will tell you that my heart breaks when I look at Gaza. Last year, with the group at the time, we stood along the border at a cross point where goods are transferred and eventually enter Gaza. You can see the Gaza skyline there. That's one of those... Well, how many square miles is that? It's pretty small. More than a million, one and a half million people live there. That's terrible. That's absolutely terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u104	But Israel isn't the only country that keeps its borders closed. Egypt is also keeping its borders closed. Egypt could open its borders, but it doesn't. Why not? Because it's afraid of jihadism, of violence, of radicalism. These are exactly the same considerations, but this proportional reaction of Israel is not the solution for Gaza. The solution for Gaza is: offering hope, opening borders, security for Israel, perspective for Gaza. There is no other way than for all parties to sit around the table. Everyone's gotta sit around that table. These bombs and grenades aren't the answer. So if you're asking me, I'm saying, they're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u106	That is not the reaction of Israel either. We must speak, but that can only be recognised as Gaza and Hamas and accept that there is something like Israel, how annoying they may once have found them: "There is something like Israel, and now it is our duty to live together in peace."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you. I'd like to ask the members a few questions. I understand the emotion on this subject, but I would like to ask you to be a little shorter and a little more concise, just like Mr Kuzu just did. Then we can also allow some more interruptions. If they are very long, then unfortunately they cannot do so, looking at the agenda. But I also understand the emotion on this subject. Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u108	Last attempt, Mr. Chairman. I condemn the missiles from Hamas to Israel. Does Mr Segers also condemn Israel's excessive violence towards the Palestinians?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u109	I have just said this: if that is the case, if civilians are deliberately killed, then I condemn it. But I'd have to have proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u110	I have a question, especially about the bombing of the tower, the building, in which so many international media, including RTL News, had an office. As far as I know, IDF didn't claim any rocket attacks from that building, but Hamas' intelligence activity would be found in that building. That is of a completely different order. But is there not a beginning to doubt Mr Segers, I ask through the President, whether that does not go beyond proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u112	All the international media active in Gaza were in that building. They give objective coverage of a war that is going on. Then there must be some doubt if the only evidence for that is a statement from the IDF?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u113	There are two options. Whether it is indeed a sinister attack by Israel on the free press, that would then be the sole purpose, or it is a sinister plan of Hamas to barter among journalists, knowing that that would also be a form of a human shield. I don't know. That is what we should be looking into. Well, that's hard to investigate in Gaza, but you should check it out. But I can rule out that second option. In fact, there are indications... I've seen them come along, but I still don't think it's enough to say with certainty that rockets have been fired from there. But I do have some clues that there's more to it than that. But you should check it out. Then we can be more certain about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u114	In any case, I think it is a good thing that Mr Segers too would have liked to have looked into this particular bombardment more closely. I also hope that the Prime Minister will take a good look at this and respond positively to it. I do have another point. You constantly say that Hamas's goal is to make as many civilian casualties as possible. That's your right. But you do not want to end up in the situation that Hamas is able to get his hands on precision weapons that are a match for Israeli weapons, with which it is going to attack targeted military targets in Israel, for example? I would like to stop you from looking a little too one-sidedly and indicating what is going on here. That's not the escalation you want to look up, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u115	No, but I don't quite understand the opposite either: as if the fact that they don't have as good weapons as Israel would argue for Hamas. If they are able to obtain exactly the same weapons, then they will, and then Iran will do everything in its power to give them those weapons and indeed kill as many people as possible. That is Hamas' intention now. It is Hamas' foremen who openly say that every Jew anywhere in the world is a legitimate goal. That's the escalation. That is the strength against which Israel stands. I certainly understand in the context of this Chamber that you say that I am transferring to Israel, but if I take a step back to my position, it is a step back where I see a small country that is the only safe place for any Jew anywhere in the world. As far as I am concerned, that country has a right to safe borders and a safe existence, but it is under threat. That's my perspective. My hope, I think, is that we share it. It is a just peace, a just solution for both peoples in which both accept each other's presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u116	Maybe I wasn't clear enough in my question. On the one hand, you emphasise that Israel, the IDF, are very precise in the attacks they are carrying out. It is warned in advance and it can target the targets because it has the weapons that are capable of doing so. On the other hand, you dislike the fact that Hamas is firing unfocused missiles. Those missiles aren't that great, because a third just falls on Gaza's territory itself. 90% of the missiles that have the chance to reach an important target are shot down by that Iron Dome. You don't want Hamas to get that quality weapons, do you? You should therefore be careful in your reasoning that when it comes to international law and proportionality, the only measure is the extent to which your weapons are precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u117	No, it's what you aim for. Israel is targeting missile installations. What's Hamas aiming for? To cities in Israel. There are now thousands of rockets... Mr Van der Lee is shaking his head now, but that is what is happening. Those are the intentions. If I measure those intentions, the assembly line is not going towards Israel's military bases, as far as you would think legitimate, but towards cities, towards villages. I've been in those villages where people do have 15 seconds to run into a shelter and live constantly under that threat. Those are the intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr. Van der Lee, finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u119	I've been to Gaza City before. That city's been bombed for years. Half of them are in ruins. I just told you the example of those mediators. It wasn't even the IDF's claim that missiles were fired from there. There would be an intelligence activity. That's really something else. I think you should be careful what you say, because they are too one-sided as if every attack from Israel is absolutely exact. Then where did all these collateral victims come from, the few hundred deaths that have now fallen there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u120	I didn't say any attack was legitimate. I have said that if there is any doubt about it, there must be research. But I do see intentions, and they weigh something different from Hamas' intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u121	One very brief question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u122	Your encouragement is going to work, Mr. Chairman. I can promise you that. I agree with Mr Segers that there must be a perspective for peace, but peace cannot be achieved if you keep a one-sided story, including from the international community. I hear such a story from Mr Segers now. Is he prepared to ask our government to convey to its Israeli counterpart the need to provide evidence that there was actual activity that was not in line with Israel's security? Evidence of this must be provided. That was the way your predecessor Voordewind worked on this issue when it came to other conflicts. Two. What does Mr Segers think of the qualification of Human Rights Watch that the Israeli system is apartheid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u123	The first thing I find complicated to oversee. I do not think we are in a position to ask that now, but there will undoubtedly be research. The second, I think, is misplaced. I find the qualification "apartheid" misplaced. Israel is a multicultural, multi-religious state in which more than two million Arabs live, in which they have rights and duties, in which they are represented in parliament, in which they have more democratic freedom than Palestinians under the Palestinian Authority, where election after election is postponed. There are 80-year-olds out there who don't need an election anymore. Is it perfect? No. I can also see that there is tension between the various groups of the population. I also see a genuine desire on both sides to live in peace there. I also see these initiatives, of people standing shoulder to shoulder. I would like to conclude with one question which Mr Kuzu was allowed to ask: what is the commitment of Mr Joël Voordewind, and what will my commitment be during this period? What are places of hope? Those are places where people look each other in the eye, where they go to school together, where they work together, where they work together, and see each other as fellow human beings, and not as the other one who needs to be chased away. What will we always be strong for? For places of reconciliation, places of cooperation. It is obvious that we have different perspectives, but it would be nice if we could be able to stand up for those hopeful places. We then hope that very small seeds of hope germinate into something we all long for, and what is called peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you, Mr Segers. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD for her maiden speech, where I wish her every success. That is always a very special moment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr President, Prime Minister and colleagues. It is a great privilege for me to stand here and give my maiden speech on a subject that is close to my heart. In fact, that is why I am here today in your Chamber: Europe, and more specifically the European Union. I heard Geert Mak say somewhere: "If I were a Martian and could choose a continent on earth to be the first to discover, it would be Europe." That goes for me, too. My high school period was in the nineties. In the Netherlands this was a period of economic prosperity, peace and security. Unlike my parents' generation and certainly my grandparents' generation, my sister and I could choose a course after high school and thus increase our chances for the future. It was almost obvious that we would get it better than our parents. An important reason for this carefree youth is the fact that we have been free from war on our territory since 1945. This is partly thanks to the European Union. Exactly two weeks ago it was May 5th and we celebrated freedom; that freedom that is self-evident to so many Dutch people. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere, as we see today. It is therefore still very important to realise that it is not self-evident, not even in Europe. As I said, the European Union is an important reason why I am here in your Chamber today. When I was young, I developed a great interest in the world around me. I remember the moment when I realized the world was bigger than me. I think I was about four years old. I sat with my parents and my sister in Zuidbroek's car, where I lived, to my grandmother in Delfzijl. I don't know what it was, because we actually went to my grandmother's every Sunday, but all of a sudden I thought, "What's the big deal?" Southbroek was the world, or at least my world. But where was Delfzijl? Suddenly I realized that there was more than Zuidbroek and that the world around me was bigger. Ultimately, this interest resulted in a study of International Relations. You will not be surprised that the European Union was an important part of this. The sentiment about the EU was largely positive at the time. We could travel freely, study more easily across the border, suddenly we didn't have to change our money anymore, and Western values gained strength. During my studies, the book The end of history and the last man by Francis Fukuyama was the book that reflected the state of the world. By now we know better and Fukuyama has also adjusted his worldview. The world around us has become more unstable. Liberal values are under pressure and support for the EU is falling, while the problems we face are becoming increasingly complex and cross-border and we need each other for the solutions right now. That made me wonder again over two years ago what it really was like. Surely the future of the Union is not a black and white debate? Since when is pointing the other to an agreement a sign of lack of solidarity? Or is standing up for the national interest and the Dutch taxpayer suddenly something to apologize for? The debate on Europe is often held in extreme extremes. You're for or against Europe. You're either in solidarity or you're not. You're either for or against more powers. I regret that, because I do not think it contributes to gaining the confidence of citizens and solving the problems we face together. People worry about their health, their income, their future. This must be central to the way we look at Europe. And that's why I'm standing here. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the agenda, let me say a few words about the situation in Israel and the Palestinian territories. A lot has been said about it. The VVD is also concerned about rising tensions and mutual violence. It is very important for the parties to return to the table in order to find a peaceful solution. The VVD shares the commitment of the cabinet and supports the efforts to assist in mediation efforts if necessary. However, I would like to ask the cabinet what role the Netherlands can actually play and whether further steps will be taken at EU level. Can we discuss the EU's diplomatic cooperation with the US and relevant regional players? Then the agenda. The vaccination passport has been widely discussed in both Brussels and The Hague over the past period. With the summer vacation on the doorstep, the vaccinations coming on steam and the first decreases in the infection rates, we can carefully think about holidays abroad. That's good news. The vaccination passport is important here, but it remains unclear when it will actually be there and whether we can actually travel with it. Can the Prime Minister clarify this point? The debate raised the cost of the PCR test. And although I certainly think this is a relevant discussion, we talked about it last week when we talked about festivals and festivals, I do have some hesitation in having them during this debate on the European Council. It is a good thing that we make agreements at European level, but that is different from imposing them at European level. This is a national responsibility, in which we ourselves have not yet been able to talk enough with the minister responsible about the precise purpose, the design and the feasibility. It seems to me, therefore, that making final statements at the moment is anticipating that. I want to prevent us from promising people things that we will not be able to live up to in the end. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at this. Mr. Chairman. The climate, another important issue. As we know, the VVD supports the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. However, we think it is important that this is done in a sensible and predictable way, which people can also experience. We are still waiting for final plans from the Commission. It is therefore wise for the cabinet to conduct the discussions in the broadest sense. As far as we are concerned, it is not appropriate to make new or additional agreements or to start a redistribution debate on a number of points. Does the Cabinet share this vision? I would also like to say a few words about ETS, which is an instrument of prime importance for us to green up. And from the rising price, we can also see that it works. In a higher objective through the ETS, it is important that we maintain a level playing field with non-European companies. The CBAM, the green border tax, can be a good instrument for this in itself. In addition to creating a level playing field, it also provides an incentive for non-European companies to become more sustainable. However, we must ensure that it does not become too protectionist. Could the Prime Minister be aware of that? Just a few words about Russia. The VVD has serious concerns. Take the tensions along the Ukrainian border, the cyber attacks, the persistent lack of cooperation with MH17, and certainly the worrying situation surrounding Navalny. The VVD therefore welcomes a discussion on the EU's strategic commitment. Only together can we convey a good message, which can have an economic impact not only politically but also economically. The VVD considers the government's commitment to the content strictly, but with open communication lines to be sensible. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he sees the force field within the Council and what he expects as a result. Mr. Chairman. I will end with a reference to last week's Prime Minister's words. The European Union has brought us much. If it does not exist, we should set it up immediately. All I have to do is wish the Prime Minister good luck at the summit. Or, as we say in Groningen, head off!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mrs Kamminga, for your personal maiden speech. It's a really nice kick off; you're going to look at someone else. Congratulations! Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. Heads up! Heads up! Heads up! Heads That's nice on his Gronings. We also have something like this in Limburg, but just something else. I would like to thank Mr Eppink, Mrs Piri and Mrs Kamminga for their maiden speech and to share their personal experiences. For peace and security were at the heart of them too. I'd like to start with that, too. I would like to begin with the situation in Israel and Palestine and condemn all violence on both sides. Each generation knows its struggle, but this battle has been dragging on for generations. We have opened another sad chapter. My group supports the appeal of the President of the United States: take your responsibility for the upcoming generation worldwide. Despite the sacrifices and the misery that is now taking place, I hope that we can take a step towards peace, towards a structural solution for both states. But how? There's got to be perspective. This must be provided by strong and decisive leadership. Unfortunately, this is really lacking after four years of one-sided Trump politics. But the EU also appears to be toothless. There's gotta be another way. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of the Oslo Agreements, officially signed on 13 September 1993. Millions of people worldwide would draw hope and optimism if the current generation of world leaders revived this agreement, not from naivety, but from necessity and for our emerging generations of boys and girls. They don't want this anymore. They want these messes cleaned up by those who caused them. This means that against the current emotions, divisions and painful events, individual responsibility must first be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u128	Nice words. The question is, how are we going to achieve that? We have a letter from the Secretary of State. He says that what Israel is doing is discriminatory and contrary to international law. Do you also think that the European Union should see what steps you can take towards Israel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u129	I'll get back to you on that. Yes, our appeal to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister will also be to bring the parties to the table through Europe and to take effective action where necessary so that we can make that step towards peace. The CDA is not satisfied only with the cease-fire of today. We've seen that for generations. We're also asking for leadership. The Prime Minister's here. He has ten years of experience in Europe. I'm serious. He is one of the longest serving prime ministers in Europe. I think he can make a difference. But that question will be back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u130	Very good. This prime minister must above all try to get the warring parties to the table. Who knows what's gonna come out of that? But I was just a little more precise. That letter from your outgoing cabinet states: Israel uses discriminatory legislation and acts in violation of international law. Do you, as a CDA, which also attaches great importance to the international legal order, think that this actually obliges us to take steps and that we must say: Israel, you must stop doing this, because you cannot operate in violation of international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u131	International law, international humanitarian human law, must be condemned immediately. We must appeal to the parties. We are now in a crisis in the Middle East, where we need a ceasefire first. After that, the parties have to sit at the table. That's what the CDA wants to achieve. We want a structural solution which the Palestinians, especially the Palestinian people, but also the Israeli people, want. We will at all times continue to pronounce international law, international humanitarian law and public justice to the parties that violate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u132	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u133	Quite specifically: does the CDA agree with my party that we should instruct our Prime Minister towards this European summit to take steps and prepare measures towards Israel, which is in violation of international law? Will you give that order to the Prime Minister with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u134	We instruct the Cabinet to take the right measures, effective measures, to get both Israel and the Palestinians to sit down in a broad context to do what is right for a structural solution to peace. We cannot settle for a ceasefire alone. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u135	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u136	Yes. We were talking about the mess and the kids who don't want to. I'm just gonna take the next step. I ask the Prime Minister what individual impact he wants to make in this larger picture. Is he prepared to convince the Council with conviction and possible sacrifices that we must return to 13 September 1993, when brave leaders such as Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat crossed their shadows, knowing that they would reap much counterwind and aggression? Mr. Chairman. We see demonstrations all over the world, pro and contra. At this time with social media, young people are connected worldwide and they are critically wondering what the conflict means to themselves. That's a fair question. Does the Prime Minister see opportunities to bring together initiatives by Palestinian and Israeli young people to shape the shared future? As CDA, we do not believe in the terms of force, the hard hand and polarizing the complex conflict. No "eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth." We believe that you should sit at the table with those with whom you have the greatest differences under conditions. Mr. Chairman. "Peace be made with your enemies. That peace must be achieved in Gaza, Israel and Palestine." I read this quote yesterday in an opinion piece by a Dutch rabbi. We ask for mercy and forgiveness. It is also unacceptable for Muslims and Jews in the Netherlands to be set up against each other with malicious slogans and actions, even in cases of anti-Semitism, where real boundaries are crossed. As a society, we must turn our backs on this, whether you are Muslim, Jewish, Christian or otherwise. Don't let us divide now. Talk to each other about this. There is a lack of leaders who dare to take brave steps, not only for pragmatism and electoral short-term gains, but who dare to tackle something big. The CDA believes that the EU and the Member States should express their unequivocal views when the international legal order or human rights are violated. In this respect, we ask the cabinet to continue to condemn illegal annexations and expulsions through the EU. However, the EU must also call for elections in Palestinian territories. It is downright failing leadership that after fifteen years they cannot manage to hold new elections. My group condemns the rocket attacks by Hamas and other terrorist groups. Israel must be able to defend itself against this, but within international humanitarian law. And proportional, I say explicitly. The high number of women and children among the victims is unacceptable. It is the European democratic core values and our common commitment to human rights and public justice that we clearly appeal to both sides. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. I know it is very complex, but the Prime Minister can also hide behind this complexity. But the EU is its wheelbarrow. It's a great opportunity. The Middle East Quartet, namely the US, Russia, the United Nations and the EU, must now act quickly to prevent further escalation of the explosive situation in densely populated areas. Stop the missile attacks immediately and the bombings on both sides. It has been demonstrated on several occasions that this does not lead to a solution to the political conflict. I would particularly like to ask the Prime Minister what he can do and how he can make a difference. He has more than ten years of experience in Europe and where there is a will is a way. I conclude this piece with the words of the pontifex, the bridge builder, the pope. "Let us constantly pray that the Israelis and the Palestinians may find the way of dialogue and forgiveness. Let us pray for the victims, especially for the children. Let us pray for peace." Mr. Chairman. Then to corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u137	Before you do that, there is a brief interruption by Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u138	I thank Mr Amhaouch for his efforts towards peace. He wants the government to sit down with parties, together with others, to bring these parties together. But what are we supposed to imagine when one of these two parties says: that other party must disappear from the face of the earth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u139	We're gonna have to get rid of that. We know that Israel has a state, with rights. That was determined in 1947-1948. All countries have done so. People or groups who do not do so must be called upon to do so and condemned to do so. Peace will only come if the State of Israel is recognized by the parties. I think the Palestinian Authority is doing the same thing on the West Bank. The other way around, we also need a Palestine to organise peace in the Middle East and to solve it in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u140	That is all very well, but the point is that Hamas says: the Jews must leave; they must disappear from the face of the earth. That's their religious-ideological starting point. I don't think they'll ever let that go. So how can you negotiate with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u141	The Palestinian people, the Palestinians, are more than just Hamas. We've just asked them that elections should be held there. After fifteen years, it is time for young people to speak out in the Palestinian territories. We're gonna have to sit down with that. With the Palestinian Authority, we have to sit down and support it. We must support them as a rule of law and that Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace. So we need to stay optimistic, Mr. De Roon. Shortly about corona. European vaccination certificates should open the European summer for us. Everybody wants to go on vacation, of course. I understand that 18 Member States and Iceland are piloting the European Digital Green Certificate platform. This pilot looks like a bit of a black box. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the Netherlands is in on it? What exactly is being tested and how are the results of this test shared? The certificate should enter into force at the end of June, but the Prime Minister is talking about a six-week transition period for Member States to make agreements and to implement them. How does it work in that period? That would mean that we only have a digital certificate in the media August. Then, of course, the young people are long gone. How can we make the transition as short as possible? How do other countries do that? Then last but not least, the little block of Russia. The relationship between the EU and Russia and between the various Member States and Russia has become increasingly cool and very complex. The Prime Minister is right to say that the communication lines must remain open, but Russia's provocation is constantly shifting. That is why it is important for my group that the EU should focus on strengthening people-to-people contacts between the EU and the Russian population and that we explicitly support civil society in Russia. I ask the Prime Minister how this can be designed. Can this be organised bilaterally? Mr President, one final point. You always have the last and the last point. I saw the Prime Minister on Twitter reporting that I don't know if he even read that at his Nokia meeting yesterday with the EU, the G20 and the African countries on the financing of the African economy. Can the Prime Minister give a brief reflection on what the outcome is, in response to his Twitter message?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, many congratulations to Mr Eppink, Mrs Piri and Mrs Kamminga for their fantastic maiden speeches. Very nice to hear it. Mr. Chairman. The economic recovery after the corona crisis, the threat of climate change and the Europe-Russia relationship, they are not minor issues. Europe and Europeans, we face major changes. The decisions that will be taken at the European summit can affect all of us for decades to come. It is precisely because the direction taken by the European Union is so influential that Volt believes it is important for the European Union to be democratized: more transparency, the right of initiative for the European Parliament and the possibility of dismissing Members of the Commission in evidence of malpractice. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament believes that it is high time for a further step in the development of Europe. Mr President, the Corona policy. More than a concerted strategy, it is still a European patch blanket. Volt has one pressing call in particular: Europe, do everything to promote global vaccination. We cannot afford to stall, because new, future mutants may be smarter than the current vaccines. Meanwhile, the Union hesitates when it comes to releasing patents. Volt asks the Prime Minister if he knows that we can buy the patents and how he looks at this option. What is the Prime Minister's view of the European Commission's plan for setting up the local production hubs, which will be discussed at this summit? What will the Dutch commitment be in this discussion? Will the Prime Minister in Europe commit himself to a joint strategy for a possible next pandemic, for example by setting up European pandemic maps? Then there's the climate crisis. In December, the European Council increased the climate target to a reduction of at least 55% by 2030. Volt would prefer Europe to go even faster and be climate neutral by 2040, but we count our blessings for now. Combating the climate crisis is often seen as a difficult task, but it is time we saw it as an opportunity. Research carried out by the International Energy Agency shows that investments in the energy transition worldwide can create up to 30 million new jobs and increase global GDP. Investing in combating climate change can therefore be of great benefit to us, and the good news is that funds are available for this. How does the Prime Minister intend to use the money from the Recovery Fund to meet these climate goals and do he think the funds are large enough? Mr. Chairman. When the European summit begins, there may again be many civilian deaths in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Israelis and Palestinians deserve to live side by side in peace and security. That is why the policy of illegal settlements must be stopped. Putting Palestinians out of their homes, attacking houses of prayer: it is unacceptable and it deserves nothing but rejection in clear terms. Terrorists such as Hamas must stop firing missiles at civilian targets and Israel must stop bombing Gaza. To stop this mutual violence, we call for stronger EU action in the Middle East Quartet so that the parties come to the negotiating table. What steps does the Prime Minister take to convince his European colleagues of this, and in the specifically natural Orban? Then Russia, President. Is it not high time that the Prime Minister made a commitment to a common European foreign policy? For how much longer do we allow European Member States to play against each other? European leaders hesitated to come up with sanctions when Russian opposition leader Navalny was taken to a penal colony. Europe watched the President of Belarus win fraudulent presidential elections under the approval of the Kremlin. And Russian troops are still standing by on the border with Ukraine. Meanwhile, Sweden is forced to increase its defence budget by as much as 40% due to continuous Russian activity in its water and airspace. Let the Union make a joint fist against this. Let the Union be a defender of peace, democracy and security. It's very necessary. To this end, the Prime Minister made an important advance with his colleague Sánchez: the abolition of the right of veto. I wonder how this paper has been received from the Prime Minister, what the follow-up steps are and how he will make a commitment at this summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kerseboom of the Forum for Democracy. It's also her maiden speech today. The last maiden speech today, but also a special moment. I wish you every success in that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a Dutchman. I was formed by the great thinkers, the sailors, the famous painters and writers, and the innovators who are rich in Dutch history. By the farmers, the workers and the entrepreneurs, on whose basis our country was built. I was formed by a nation that believes in freedom in all its facets. A nation where equality is a fundamental concept. A nation that celebrates together when the Dutch national team wins. A nation that mourns together when tragedy strikes us. Through my veins the blood of the Africans also flows. A people who have come into being "door us deserted plains with that moan of ossewa." But I am also the fruit of the VOC, of the Cape Malay slaves, of Krotoa, of English colonialism, of a history of heroism, but also of deep trauma. From colonial nationalism, African nationalism, African nationalism and rainbow nationalism. I carry the history of many nations, of many people and many languages. Each top-shaped chair in this room also represents a story and a history. Stories of different backgrounds and origins. But yet we all share the same big story. The story that connects us. The story we've been formed by this country we share. Although the similarities are sometimes difficult to find, we share this: our love for our Netherlands and a determined commitment to serve its people. Mr. Chairman. As I stand here as a result of a historic meeting between Europe and Africa, a meeting that has changed the world, we are all here today to discuss issues that can fundamentally change our world again. This applies first and foremost to the introduction of the corona passport. Let me be clear. Forum for Democracy is against any form of a corona passport and against any form of a test society. The cabinet also writes that it attaches importance to no direct or indirect vaccination coercion. At the same time, it is this cabinet that is frustrating within Europe when it comes to providing free testing. It seems so logical. The government introduces a test obligation, so the government pays for the test. But the Netherlands is therefore annoyed. This cabinet will allow ordinary families to pay hundreds of euros extra to be able to go on holiday, while the vaccines are free. This leads to indirect vaccination. Does the Prime Minister recognize that? Mr. Chairman. Our freedom is in danger. Forum for Democracy would prefer the cabinet to give up on this miserable plan, but if those corona passports do come, will the Prime Minister stop being obstructed? Will the Prime Minister undertake to issue travel certificates after performing a free test? And is the Prime Minister prepared to argue within the EU for a tough end date for the corona passport regime? This shouldn't be the new normal thing. Mr. Chairman. More worrying developments are taking place in the world. Israel's under attack. With Iran's support, Hamas is firing thousands of missiles at the Israeli civilian population. It's only because of Iron Dome that not many Israeli civilian deaths have occurred. I have therefore listened with amazement to the negative way in which some colleagues have spoken about Israel in the past period. They are stuck in their own victim-badder narrative, as if Israel did not have the right to defend itself and as if Dutch interference, let alone Dutch sanctions, would resolve the conflict in Israel. It's time for a sense of reality. It is not in the Dutch interest to play schoolmaster against Israel and Saint Nicholas against the Palestinians. It is in the Dutch interest to trade where that strengthens us and it is in the Dutch interest not to lecture like-minded countries, but to support them when they are under fire. The Prime Minister should therefore not agree with unilateral EU statements that wrong Israel's right to self-defense. We welcome the fact that Hungary did not endorse such a statement yesterday. Let Prime Minister Rutte follow that example. This shows once again the enormous importance of maintaining our veto in the EU in the field of foreign policy. And then there's the climate fiasco. The European Council considers that by 2030 the EU should emit 55% less CO than in 1990. In July, the European Commission will issue the corresponding law. This cabinet is totally fine with that. In fact, the Netherlands is in the so-called leading group. This is highly undesirable. The climate transition is costing us our prosperity and through the EU our sovereignty. The terminal: a Brussels superstate that destroys the smallest detail in our lives. You'll own nothing and you'll be happy. The Forum for Democracy will always oppose this. Forum for Democracy will always defend the sovereignty, prosperity and freedom of the Dutch people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you, Mrs Kerseboom. I also congratulate you on your maiden speech. This is a special kickoff. Soon there will be an opportunity to congratulate you. It was a very beautiful and powerful argument. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This week, our cabinet will be discussing several important issues at the European summit. Many of them have been cited here. Israel and Palestine are not on the agenda, but keep our Chamber occupied. And rightly so, because that's what it's supposed to be about. As far as BET1 is concerned, Europe needs to work on its role in bringing closer to an end to the repression of the Palestinians and the beginning of a just solution. What we have seen in the past week is how 73 years of illegal annexations, apartheid laws and policies, ethnic cleansing and violence against Palestinians ultimately leads to serious situations. We saw how the lives of young children, the free press, clinics, schools and innocent civilians were not spared. Human Rights Watch concluded a few weeks ago that Israel is guilty of crimes against humanity. It concerns crimes of apartheid, as laid down in the Rome Statute. Nothing just goes away from the fist. Human Rights Watch isn't the first organisation in this area either, and that's not the best news for a country that has been under investigation since the beginning of this year by the International Criminal Court established here in The Hague. I look forward to the answers to the written questions I have put to Minister Blok. The Netherlands has always wanted to be friends so far, because that would mean more for the rights of Palestinians. But Israel has been abusing the coulant alliances in the West for over 70 years. With European and American support, Israel is able to suppress an entire people by means of violent or non-violent means. Some people don't see shame in that, I do. It is up to the Netherlands to opt for human rights in principle. But in practice, the Netherlands actually does exactly the opposite. Mr Rutte Rütte and Mr Joost may know with what hat this week that the Netherlands is supporting Israel's right to self-defense, while in fact Israel is the aggressor who caused these escalations and refuses peace negotiations. While Hamas' bombings can count on a judgment, Israeli bombings remain free of the same judgment of this outgoing Prime Minister. The tweet was one-sided and completely ignores the structural suffering and oppressed position of Palestinians. I will therefore be tabling a motion in which I ask the Chamber to distance itself from this tweet, especially since we do not know with which hat it has been sent, from the Prime Minister's account. Mr. Chairman. It is time for the Netherlands to stop padding and keeping it wet. Good neighbourly policy towards Israel has not allowed international law and human rights to prevail, but has only brought further violence. It must be over with impunity. The Netherlands and Europe must draw a line. It is therefore important for the Netherlands, at the European summit, to call for the association agreement with Israel to be suspended. We must conclude that the policy of discouragement against settlements has not worked and we must turn this policy into an overall boycott of trade and investment in Israel's apartheid regime. It is important that the international community opts unconditionally for human rights and starts to sanction it. I wonder how the Prime Minister looks at these points. As far as BET1 is concerned, this is the sound that our government must make in addition to the important contribution of many colleagues here on the left, perhaps to the right, on all other important points, including at the European summit. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Mrs Simons. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would ask Mr Eppink, Mrs Piri, Mrs Kamminga and Mrs Kerseboom to come forward for a moment to celebrate this moment and to receive the congratulations of colleagues. Then I would like to suspend the sitting until 7.20 p.m. so that we can listen to the Prime Minister's first term. I would ask everyone to respect the corona rules in the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u149	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, please pay attention to the following. During the suspension, just now in the plenary session, congratulations were given to Mrs Kerseboom by her colleagues in the political groups. It was clear that the 1.5 meters were not respected. I deeply regret that. There is no other way than that that leads me to believe that if there are congratulations in the plenary, I must have the assurance of the group that the 1.5 metres will be respected in advance. If I do not have that certainty, I will unfortunately not allow the congratulations of that group in plenary. Thank you for your understanding of this. It's no different. I see Mrs Kerseboom nodding, so I hope that she will take that back to her group and that we can now return to the debate that is really at stake today. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr President, thank you. Most of the questions have been asked about the Middle East, which is not on the agenda. But by far the majority of questions are about that. I cannot make any binding changes to the agenda, because the President-in-Office of the Council decides what is on the agenda. But I will try to do this part of the debate, the first term of the Chamber and of the Government and our discussion which will undoubtedly follow if I come to speak on Monday evening about Russia. In my speech, I will also mention a number of things about the situation in the Middle East. I think that's how I'm gonna fix it. Then you will know that if you read back the European Council's report and think, "Hey, that's crazy. We have discussed 80% of the debate on the Middle East. Then why does he say so little about it?" Of course, I cannot do more than try to present a number of key points in this discussion. Perhaps the debate is useful in any case because it further promotes our common opinion in the Netherlands. I thought Stef Blok was having another debate on that tomorrow. So that's what keeps us busy. That is a preliminary point concerning the procedure. Then I thought I'd do it like this. I would like to start with the main issue in the first term, namely the situation between Israel and Hamas. Then I will answer questions about covid, about Russia and about the climate. Finally, I will address a few other questions, including the CDA's question on yesterday's Africa Summit and on the UK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you. Maybe I can agree with the Members that the Prime Minister is finishing up a block. We have a couple of cubes of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have said of this: two short interruptions in two. If they're very short, maybe there's a little more room. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr. Chairman. Before I forget, of course, my heartfelt congratulations to Mr Eppink, Mrs Piri, Mrs Kamminga and Mrs Kerseboom for their maiden speeches. I really enjoyed all the speeches, like everyone else, I think. There were also many personal elements in it. I look forward to further discussions with them. I am going to reread Mr Eppink's book about his time in the Bolkestein cabinet, when Mr Eppink was a fine member of the VVD, inspired by his contribution. But I also wish the others every success, all four of them. Then I'll get to the Middle East. I would like to say in advance that the cabinet and I are personally very concerned about the violence in Israel and Gaza. I think I'm also joining the greatest common denominator. Of course, I also deeply regret the victims who are currently there. The Blok letter of, I thought, Monday also outlines a number of underlying issues that play out. Of course, that also has to do with what has been going on in East Jerusalem for a while. That is something that we cannot completely separate from; it has also been noted by a number of Members of Parliament. I refer to the expropriation of houses in East Jerusalem, where we call on Israel, as you know, to refrain from doing so. I'm not going into the whole history since 1949, but we think there's an imbalance. Israelis can claim homes in East Jerusalem that were Jewish before 1948, and that cannot be reversed by Palestinian residents. So there's an imbalance there. That's one thing. The second is that we call on Israel to also refrain from further settlement expansion in the West Bank including East Jerusalem. I also discussed on Sunday in my phone conversation with Netanyahu that we consider it important that the status quo around the Temple Mount, Haram al-Sharif, be maintained. We believe that this will contribute to stability. I wanted to say that in general. I also thought I'd do the whole block first, but I'll leave that to the chairman, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u153	Sure. You'll do the block first, and then I'll give you room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u154	Yes. So I'm going to continue with all the questions about the Middle East. I would also like to say that the aim of the Dutch Government is to try to prevent it from being regarded as pro-Israel or pro-Palestinian in its policy. We are trying to keep the equilibrium, because that is the only way the Netherlands can play a role in the conflict. And we are currently playing a modest role in the whole of the practical talks that are taking place between Israel and the Palestinians on, for example, cross-border issues. This is done at official level. It is one of the few contacts that are going on in which the Netherlands facilitates, for a number of years. This is greatly appreciated by both Abu Mazen and Netanyahu, as has been confirmed on Sunday. This also includes the fact that we try to avoid leaning to one side or to the other every time something is going on there. That is difficult, and you can see that in this debate too, because the debate in the Netherlands is, of course, very profiled, and those who are very pro-Israeli are opposed to those who are very pro-Palestinian interests. We can do all that, but the cabinet and I too are actually trying to prevent that from happening. Of course, this is never entirely objective; it cannot be done in such a conflict. But we always try to find a balance in our choice of words, which makes it possible for the Netherlands to play that role. That makes us quite unique in the world. We are truly one of the few countries in Europe where both the Palestinians and the Israelis turn to do business. I think there are a number of issues to be dealt with here, and I will end with my brief introduction, which has to be resolved. For example, the Netherlands is thinking about how to solve the issue of Palestinian division. In the end, you want the PA to be able to go back to Gaza. We think that is very important. We also think it is very important that Israel strengthens Abbas's position. What is happening now, of course, weakens the position of the Palestinian administration on the West Bank. A third issue relates to the reconstruction of Gaza. Again, there is the importance of predictability and speed, for example when deciding on the passage of building materials and other goods. I also think that the distinction between Israel and the settlements remains very strict in all aspects: not only in Dutch-Israeli cooperation, but also in the cooperation between Europe and Israel and, of course, in the Dutch efforts to bring Israelis and Palestinians together on both sides of the green line. With the trilateral groups I was talking about, we will also continue to try to solve these structural problems in the fields of water, energy and trade. The European Union also relies heavily on the Netherlands to continue with this. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's a little introduction. Then I'll come to the questions. The first is, of course, about the Palestinian families in Sheikh Jarrah. We are very concerned about this expulsion, which I have just mentioned in general terms. We believe that this kind of unilateral action is contrary to international law. They also undermine the possibility of a two-state solution and can lead to further escalation. We think it is a good thing that there is a court ruling to postpone this threat of expulsion. We urge Israel to do so on Sunday in my conversation with Netanyahu on a lasting solution, so that those people can continue to live in their homes. We also have high-level contacts with the United States on this issue. My messages from Friday and Sunday are in line with each other in my view. I would also like to mention my entire Friday tweet, which consisted of two parts. In both cases, both Friday and Sunday, I drew attention to Israel's right to self-defense, but I also pointed out in both cases that there must be proportionate action within the limits of international law, in line with the Dutch position. I'm not sorry about those tweets either. It has been asked whether the annexation of Westbank is proportionate. The answer is no. This has also been expressed bilaterally and publicly by the cabinet on several occasions. Because of international pressure, but also because of the standardisation agreements between Israel and the UAE, annexation has now been suspended, as you know. We urge Israel to make that suspension final. Then, of course, there is the question of whether the government considers Israel's action to be proportionate. For this reason, we cannot judge every bombardment. We simply do not have the necessary operational information on the basis of the use of force. What we do do is remind Israel of its obligation under international law. Of course, we consider Hamas to be a terrorist organization. I think that is also relevant in the whole approach to this issue. We are indeed concerned about human rights violations arising from the conflict, for example as a result of Israeli settlement policy, but certainly also as a result of Palestinian violence against Israelis. The European Union's commitment is therefore that respect for international law and human rights is seen as a cornerstone of the Middle East Peace Process. Then I come to the question of whether the disarmament of Hamas is part of a ceasefire. We do not think it is realistic to make a ceasefire conditional on disarmament of Hamas. In the long term, it is simply necessary for the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza. That is what the efforts are aimed at, but that is, of course, for the longer term. Yes, it is true that the right of veto is an excellent part of the European spectrum of instruments, but in areas of common foreign and security policy, in particular sanctions and human rights declarations, the cabinet is in favour of lifting that veto. At present, however, there is still insufficient support for this. There was a very specific question about Turkish Hamas terrorists. Mr De Roon said they had a passport. The notice on this can not be confirmed on its own. If members of terrorist organisations already had a Turkish passport, it would not make it any easier to enter the Schengen area, because visa granting at the border is by default subject to a check, including through the Schengen Information System. Then I come to the terrible story about the bombing of the mediators in Gaza. We are, of course, very concerned about this. It is crucial that the press remains safe and can report. Israel states that Hamas also used the tower. By the way, this is denied by the AP, the media organisation. We do not have any independent information on this. We believe that, after all that is happening now, there should be wide-ranging independent research on both sides, both Hamas and Israel. I say this specifically in response to questions from Mr Van der Lee, but also from others. We do not therefore have any independent information to determine whether that attack was proportionate. Then there is the question of whether we want to support Israel at EU level. As I said, the Netherlands supports Israel's right to self-defense, but within the limits of international law, including the issue of proportionality. A powerful country such as Israel, which has one of the strongest military forces in the world, naturally has a special responsibility. I've just said a few things about that. Of course Israel has the right to self-defense in that context. Then there was the question: how do we look at the next steps if a cease-fire were to come? We believe that the idea put forward on this subject, namely a suspension of the association agreement, is not sensible. This is the political and legal basis for cooperation between the EU and Israel and is therefore an important instrument for relations. We, as the Netherlands and as the European Union, are engaged in an intensive dialogue with Israel, but also with the Palestinian side. That is precisely what is needed in order to be able to raise all the issues that arise in this case. Then a question was asked about the message that Israel would have two schools in sight in Gaza. The people in the schools and surroundings were indeed warned. The bombings, according to our information, have finally stopped. Then several questions were asked about the term "apartheid." As I have already said, the cabinet is concerned about the general situation in the occupied Palestinian territories. The report by Human Rights Watch shows the impact of the occupation on the lives of Palestinians and the unequal status between the inhabitants of the settlements and the Palestinians in that area. The cabinet is reluctant to use qualifications such as "apartheid" until such qualification has been established by an international court. Then there was also the specific question of how we look at the Karabulut motion on a concrete step-by-step plan. Are we working on that? Yes, of course. Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, asked the High Representative and the Special Representative, Mr Koopmans, our former colleague here yesterday; 'your former colleague', from this role, I should say, in fact, to propose concrete measures, with concrete lessons for reconstruction, but also with concrete steps in response to the events that preceded the violence, such as the already mentioned threatening home expulsions, the expansion of settlements, the rebellious rhetoric on both sides and the re-arming by and of Hamas. I think this also affects Mr Van Dijk's question about the adopted SP motion to map options. We do this both bilaterally and at EU level. There is also the pressure on it, and the standardisation agreement with the United Arab Emirates, which can be helpful in this and which is at least at the moment. Then there is the demand for the Netherlands. I think that the Netherlands can indeed do some things here. Of course, we should not overestimate ourselves, but we do have a special position. That is why I made my own phone call with the leading players on Sunday, but Stef Blok is also very active in this whole process. I think he'll catch you up on that tomorrow. The Oslo agreements are and remain the basis for the Netherlands and the European Union. At all levels, we have contacts, both with Israel and with the P.A., but also with the countries in the region, in order, hopefully, to promote a direct ceasefire. I believe that the quartet, i.e. the EU, the US, the UN and Russia, is united in their efforts to achieve a ceasefire. We support the European Union's commitment to this. We expect the Special Representative Koopmans to play a role in this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma asked a question about the two-state solution. I think we should learn from the events of the past period. We appeal to both sides to take steps which make the two-state solution more difficult. This was also discussed yesterday by Stef Blok in the extra Foreign Affairs Council. That is why, when the EU becomes active there through the Special Representative, it has been said again: make use of the lessons of recent years, and certainly of the last few days. I agree with Sjoerdsma on this point: to be effective, the largest possible EU unit is necessary. In this respect, it is, of course, very regrettable that Hungary has finally refused to join the unanimity procedure. But the High Representative has come up with a statement on behalf of the 26. I think it's relevant that in the end one country didn't participate, and not a whole group. Then there was another question about military cooperation. It is true that the Netherlands and Israel are working together on a military basis. That is subject to strict conditions. For example, there is no joint practice of operational military operations and cooperation takes place only within the pre-1967 limits. In terms of arms exports and arms embargo, we have a very restrictive arms export policy against Israel. Each possible transaction shall be assessed on an individual basis on the basis of the criteria set out in the European Common Position on Arms Exports, which is also in line with the UN Trade Agreement. We believe that an arms embargo is unwise in this context. Finally, a number of questions about Israel and the Dutch context. I think that Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, rightly appointed in Monday's letter the right to demonstrate as a fundamental right, but anti-Semitic expressions should not be part of that. It is unacceptable, I think, I hope that we all agree with it if people hold the Jewish community responsible for Israeli government policy or believe in it to find a basis for anti-Semitic expression. As a cabinet, we strongly distance ourselves from that. I hope that we will be supported by a large majority in this Chamber. It is up to the mayors to finally take measures in the triangle that match the local situation. This morning, there was a meeting with Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security, the G4 mayors and the Chiefs of Police, to exchange information and agree on how best to act, again, of course, in view of local circumstances. That is also what I am saying in response to Mr De Roon's question. Finally, Mr President, there was also Mr De Roon's question to stop all support for Palestinian regional organisations and to offer all the money to Israel. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, then to Mr Kuzu van DENK and then to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u156	In doing so, the Prime Minister has answered all the questions in about 15 minutes. I think that's a good job; that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u158	But now for the interruptions, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u159	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u160	Moreover, I fully agree with the Prime Minister on the issue of anti-Semitism. That's unacceptable, anywhere. But I want to talk about that position. The Prime Minister said quite clearly: we do not choose a party, we do not choose the Palestinians, we do not choose Israel. Then why the tweet? Wasn't he at least a little clumsy, and definitely one-sided? He said: Hamas bombing is unacceptable, and Israel has the right to defend itself. Wasn't that a little clumsy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u161	No, I'm not. And it is also entirely in line with the reports from Germany and other countries in Europe, which have expressed themselves with similar texts. I have also said: within the limits of international law, and proportionality. I also said in that tweet that the Netherlands is calling for a ceasefire and dialogue, and that every effort must be made to prevent civilian casualties. That was Friday. On Sunday, following my phone calls with Abu Mazen and Netanyahu, I issued a more comprehensive diplomatic statement. In that I reiterated that Israel has the right to defend itself, but that, as a strong country, they also have a special responsibility. In addition, self-protection requires proportionate action within the limits of international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u162	But that does not mean that Hamas' bombings are unacceptable, with which I agree, but that the Prime Minister does not say anything about unacceptable bombing of Israel towards Palestine, for example, on a mediator or on civilian targets. He did say that he called Netanyahu and made clear his position on the settlement policy and the expulsions. I ask the Prime Minister, what did Netanyahu say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u163	I can't report that right now; that's confidential. All I can say is what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u164	Exactly! But of course, this is the well-known straw. The Netherlands says here neatly: we reject it; the occupation is wrong, the annexations are wrong and the expulsions are not good. And that's it. The question is, of course, what are we going to do now? Hence the Karabulut motion. Is the Prime Minister prepared to say in Brussels with his colleagues: we must take steps towards Israel, because this is contrary to the international legal order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u165	I also believe that we as the European Union should work together in this process and at the same time ensure that the dialogue continues alongside the pressure. I really see a big difference between Hamas as a terrorist organization and the West Bank administration in Ramallah. Those are really two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u166	"We're gonna talk about that," I think it's a little short. You note that Israel is operating illegally and in violation of international law. And then it stays quiet. That's gonna be a little obligatory if you don't take that step. Are you prepared to call in Brussels for action towards Israel or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u167	At the moment, we do not believe that this would make sense if the issues were finally resolved in dialogue with both Israel and the Palestinians. Something must also be done on the Palestinian side. Of course, I am not referring to Hamas, because that is a reprehensible club anyway, but to the board on the Westbank. I refer to the deferred elections and questions of democratic legitimacy. There are serious problems there too. We must try to deal with this in a balanced way. After all, it's not that interesting to just express ourselves to one side. We must try, seeking an equilibrium, to play a meaningful role in that conflict, so that you can resolve it for both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u168	Your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u169	Rounding up. We conclude together that Hamas' rocket fire is unacceptable. So that's a conviction towards Hamas. Certainly from your position that you do not want to take sides, then my question is what you are asking Israel for. We reject Hamas and we agree on that very quickly, but what do you ask Israel, which does not follow all the rules, even though it is a Western ally? Don't you have to be extra critical of Israeli politics, which is so much stronger than the Palestinians?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u170	But Hamas is a terrorist organization that has shot thousands of missiles at Israel. Israel had every right to defend itself, but within the limits of international law, including the issue of proportionality. Then your question about Israel's annexation policy. You know that the Netherlands is actively working bilaterally and at EU level in every possible way to prevent the new annexations that threatened to continue last year. There has been broad international pressure, not only from the Netherlands, but from the whole of the European Union. That is where the situation is currently helping Israel to gradually be responsible for bringing stability to the region as a whole. From Egypt to Saudi Arabia one depends on the Israeli ability to keep the region stable. This has also been the main reason why relations with the UAE have improved. Part of those talks has been suspending the annexation plans. I think it is in line with the Karabulut motion that we continue to consult with EU partners and other international partners on steps that could be taken if there were actual annexation, but at the moment that is not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr Kuzu van DENK, then Mr Segers and then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u172	What a weak bite. That's a weak bite, Mr. Chairman. I listened to the Prime Minister for 15 minutes. He uses phrases like "we're concerned," "we think it's in violation of international law," "we need to keep the balance." In this event you do not have to be pro-Palestinian or pro-Israel, in this case you have to be for peace. You have to be against occupation, you have to be against oppression, you have to be against apartheid. In this sense, the measure is international law. The Dutch Government has repeatedly stated that Israel is acting in violation of international law. And all we hear from the Prime Minister today is that we are trying to keep a balance. My specific question is as follows. This gentleman is Prime Minister of the Netherlands for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u173	It's our prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yes. Our Prime Minister is Prime Minister of the Netherlands for ten years. And this is already three successive Cabinets-Rutte the same attitude. But what's changed in the Middle East? What has changed in the Middle East Peace Process, in which the Netherlands has such an exceptional role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u175	That's not what I'm saying. You have to think about the Cabinet-Balkenende IV and those traffic lights. In resolving the Middle East conflict, the traffic light was green. When we asked why it was green, I think it was because all the actions had been deported. That was on the same level as fighting bike thefts. No, I'm afraid it doesn't work that way. It's an extremely complicated conflict. In 2013 I went there with Frans Timmermans and Lilianne Ploumen. We then had talks, both on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side. We have laid the groundwork for the politics that the Netherlands has been conducting since 2013, in line with the government agreement of the previous cabinet. I think the cabinet leaned a little more to one side before that. Let's just be real about that. I think the previous cabinet started to strike a very solid balance. This cabinet has continued to do so. This has led to a trade mission on both sides, and to the establishment of fora with both the Palestinians in the West Bank under the leadership of Abbas and the Israelis. That's where we started to work. This led, among other things, to visits to the Netherlands by both Abbas and Netanyahu, unfortunately still separate, in 2015 and 2016. As a result, discussions are now taking place on all these cross-border issues. This is one of the few places where Israel and the Palestinians are highly engaged in dialogue. Those are small results you can achieve. To this end it is important that we from the proxy war in the Netherlands, "are you for the Palestinians or for the Israelis?', Say: Shall we try to solve something there, instead of taking each other's measurements all day about the question of who you are for? I think we all just want peace there. The Netherlands can play a small role in this. We're trying. If I had given Mr Kuzu the impression that we in the Netherlands have solved a problem, that would not be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u176	I am certainly aware of the fact that we, as a country, cannot solve the problem on our own, but we can send out a clear signal. That clear signal must go along the lines of international law. What I am trying to say is that in the last ten years there has been a constant condemnation or finding that something may be in breach of international law did not prevent Palestinian children from being killed by Israeli bombs, that two Israeli children have been killed by Hamas missiles, that there are thousands, tens of thousands, tens of thousands, what am I saying? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And what do I hear our Prime Minister say? We are not going to use loaded terms to indicate the situation, because then we might lose our position or that equilibrium. I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following. Article 90 of our Constitution says: promote the international legal order. Does the Prime Minister think that by only being concerned about the situation there, he is contributing to the promotion of the international legal order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u177	No, but there's more to it than that. We believe that what Israel does or has done in East Jerusalem and in Westbank is indeed in breach of international law. Fortunately, there is now a stop on further annexations. We believe that Israel has the right to defend itself against the thousands of Hamas missiles. That is what we would do here in the Netherlands if that were to happen to us, but of course always with due regard for the doctrine of proportionality. We are not trying, in contacts with Hamas, but with Ramallah and Tel Aviv/Jerusalem, to make our contribution to stabilising the region. As you know, Mr Blok had contact on Monday with Mr Shukri, the Egyptian Foreign Minister. Then there were contacts with other foreign ministers in the region. We have also, as a matter of fact, been very helpful to the Americans, and they have been very helpful to us. There is, of course, a particular responsibility for Egypt and the UN. It has already been mentioned here that Egypt itself keeps the border to Gaza closed. This is not just happening on the Israeli side. There are a lot of things wrong with that region. That is perfectly clear. The issue is how you can contribute to a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u178	I'm doing it because the Prime Minister made the comparison. The last time there was an occupation in the Netherlands, there was also resistance in the Netherlands. We're proud of that, too. So I can very well imagine that there are people in occupied Palestinian territories who are resisting. Of course, I don't approve of the violence. And then I get to the Prime Minister's tweet. I wonder if he has read the comments on his Twitter message, in which many people, thousands of people, have also said by e-mail that the Prime Minister is not speaking on their behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u179	I'm sure you do. I have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u180	The Prime Minister of all the Dutch then says to the thousands of people who have indicated that Mr Rutte is not speaking on their behalf: yes, that is fine. And then he wants to claim that in a next cabinet he will again be the prime minister of all the Dutch? A shoulder-picking reaction. What kind of reaction is that? I would ask him to respond seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u181	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u182	Well, I just did. I never watch underwater at Twitter, because most reactions come from people who don't have a good life. So I'm not going there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u183	It wasn't a Twitter. The thousands of people who send an e-mail to the Prime Minister saying they don't agree with his line, he's gonna leave here like angry people who don't agree with him on Twitter. But they were e-mail messages. People who are seriously concerned about the Prime Minister's one-sided reporting and his one-sided attitude. And they weren't Twitter messages. They were people who wanted to get in touch with the Prime Minister and express their concerns. You cannot put that aside with the remark: those were angry people; I often do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u184	You've made your point. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u185	I completely dispute that this would be a conspiracy that wasn't in balance. I think that is the Dutch policy of this cabinet. Israel has the right to self-defense, within all the limits that are also contained in the Twitter report. I have also given this further context in connection with my phone calls on Sunday, including what has happened there recently. Stef Blok has also developed this further in his letter. I, of course, touched that on Sunday, also in the telephone conversations, to maintain the status quo at the sacred places. This is crucial in order not to complicate matters further. There's a threat of deportation for four refugee families. Of course it will be said on the Israeli side: Israel had already lost that case before 1948. But there is no balance in this, because that cannot be done on the Palestinian side, so we are nevertheless calling for the suspension not only of these house expulsions, but of them at all. In this way, we are always trying to look in reasonable terms at what is wise, to keep that balance well, but also, more importantly, to be an interlocutor on both sides. And that's us on both sides. Not many of them in the world. I'm not personal, but that's just consistent Dutch politics, since 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mr President, concluding. Admittedly, these were the two elements of the Prime Minister's statement that I was satisfied with. The position of the Netherlands on Sheikh Jarrah and the attitude of the Netherlands on the use of violence in the Haram al-Sharif. But, Mr President, the Prime Minister cannot claim that when 60 children die in Gaza, Israel's violence was proportional. Surely he can't say with dry eyes that it was proportional if 60 children died?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u187	I therefore find, because of the violence from Hamas, which in any case is unacceptable from a terrorist organisation, that Israel is acting in self-defense. I think that's the whole situation. The question has been asked here, I believe by GroenLinks and others, that this should be evaluated independently. I think it is very important to establish exactly what happened there. The Netherlands has no independent position, for example around those mediators, or Israel's claim is correct, or Gaza's claim and also AP is correct. We cannot see that. That's why I think you really need independent research to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u189	I have two questions. The first is about our own proportionality. This conflict is not on the agenda. The fact that we are talking about it for quite a long time is significant. But do I hear the Prime Minister now say that Israel is responsible for peace throughout the region? That in the end everything can be traced back to the position of Israel, under the responsibility of Israel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u190	Not morally, but in fact, I have to say that Israel is now the only stabilising factor in the region. Of course, you have the bigger issue of the threatening conflict between the Sunni and the Shia world, Saudi Arabia and UAE versus Iran. My analysis, which is not a moral judgment, is simply a factual observation, which I would also like to challenge in the debate with others, to see if I am right, is the following. My view would be that, and so would the Sinai, the stability there, the fight against terrorism there, and thus also the stability in Egypt, Israel is now responsible, far-reaching, throughout the region, for military stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u191	In that light, it is in any case already very hopeful that several Gulf States have recognized Israel and established links and that there are forms of cooperation. I think that's crucial. My second question concerns the Netherlands and the Dutch situation. A meeting that has made a great impression on me is my meeting with some young Jewish people who were in a restaurant that had been attacked; that was clearly an anti-Semitic incident. They said: our future is not in the Netherlands and that also has to do with anti-Semitic expressions that we have heard on the streets. The Prime Minister has said that this is unacceptable, that it cannot be done and that the triangle is looking at it. I'd still like to ask you to do more for that. We all have our emotions and our vision of the conflict. But that people are not safe and that slogans are being shouted that in the perception amount to the random attacks of Jewish people because they are Jewish... that is so incredibly intimidating for a very small community. Wherever it happens, whether it is about Muslim hatred or other expressions of intolerance, that is unacceptable. But the expression of anti-Semitism, not only in the Netherlands but also in other European capitals, was so repulsive. Does the Prime Minister see an additional responsibility to take an extra step in that direction to really protect and let a very vulnerable group know: we stand for your safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u192	Yes. I need to think about that. I agree so much and find it so self-evident. Wherever I can, I do it, also in my own contacts with Jewish organizations in the Netherlands. Of course, the same applies to calls for violence against Muslims in the Netherlands. It's both totally unacceptable. But here, of course, you saw a huge revival of anti-Semitism. I'm really sorry about that. That is why I am pleased that the four major cities and the minister have had discussions. In the end, it must also be managed in the local triangles in terms of public order. I'll think about where else I can do it. I get the question. I think we're doing it, too, in all kinds of places. But when Mr Segers asks that question, he actually says: there may be more. So I'm gonna have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u193	Yeah, there's more. We have had a demonstration here in the dark days of the caliphate, ISIS, I thought that was in 2014 on the Hoefkade, with ISIS flags and an extremely intimidating presence of people with jihadist sympathies. Then there were also slogans about Jews who had nothing to do with that conflict, but purely anti-Semitism. At first there was a very cautious reaction. Later there was much more active reaction, among others by the then mayor of Amsterdam. He said: we will never allow this. So you can take an extra step. You can make the statement that if slogans are called again that "we are going after Jews, we are going to hunt Jews," there will be immediate action, zero tolerance. Again, this is a small, vulnerable minority. If we cannot protect them, what are we proposing as the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u194	The moral support, the moral support, must come from us, Chamber and Cabinet. I myself have a special responsibility in that regard. When it comes to public order, it is crucial that the triangles also function locally. I think they do. My image is they're on top of it. But of course I'll see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u195	I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. Then Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Then you are, Mr. Bishop of the SGP, and then Mrs. Piri is of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u196	In order to make a bridge, I would like to say on behalf of my group that we abhor any form of anti-Semitism at any time. Also think of the clapping of a Jewish memorial stone in Cuijk. That is absolutely unacceptable. Nor does it contribute to any solution that might be possible for the conflict there. I also understand that I expected the Prime Minister to defend what he sent in a tweet. But then I would like to ask that, in my first term, he points out why a day later another cabinet minister points out that our Constitution requires us to appoint and prevent all violations of international law and that this does not include selectivity. How am I supposed to describe that tweet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u197	It says: @D66. In a outgoing cabinet, which includes former list leaders, who are also group chairmen of their parties, it is inevitable that the classic unit of cabinet policy works less perfectly than in a missionary cabinet. I have no objection to that either. That's what I said to the person concerned. I fully accept that message on Saturday. I don't agree. I believe that Friday's message was well balanced. This also applies to the message from Sunday and to the letter from Blok. But there's that room in a missionary cabinet. That's inevitable. She did so in her capacity as Chief of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u198	Especially when it comes to such an important and crucial conflict and also when you look at the position that the Netherlands is in, it is quite complicated that these two messages follow one after the other. But then I have another question for the Prime Minister. Does he think that the Palestinians have the right to oppose annexation, expropriation and excessive police action by Israel in the role of occupying forces within the limits of international law and proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u199	But then we don't talk about the Gaza Strip. Then you'll talk about Westbank and East Jerusalem. My first view would be that Israel should not give rise to this. Of course, that's the very first thing it starts with. It is a particular responsibility of Israel to ensure that it does not cause violations of that right, in East Jerusalem or by annexation of areas which are part of the 1967 agreements. That's where the core lies. I think, on the contrary, that the strength currently on the Palestinian side of the West Bank is that it is possible to keep some peace there. That's very powerful. I complimented Abbas on that. I have said that his personal leadership and his calls are very important in this respect, because of course he said'maintain calm'. I said "please continue with that" and to Netanyahu "don't give cause, stop messing around those sacred places and not just postpone those house expulsions, but postpone them."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u200	I understand that the Prime Minister is making such a hard cut from his reasoning line between the Westbank and action from Gaza. But the fact is that the escalation started in that part, not only by annexation, but also by violating a commitment from the Israeli authorities to the Muslims who were present in the Al-Aqsamoskee, namely that they could simply leave the mosque the next morning without any intervention. That agreement was broken, and that triggered the conflict. Does the Prime Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u201	Nothing can ever happen that will send 3,000 missiles to Israel. No, Hamas is a terrorist organization. What they're doing now is totally unacceptable, so I'm not gonna defend it, either. I only think that Israel should be proportionate in its response, but no, of course it is never acceptable to have a terrorist organisation in power in the Gaza Strip at all, let alone attack Israel with missiles. There is absolutely no way to justify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u202	Your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u203	It's a nice debate trick. I'm not asking for justification. I am not saying that it is a justification, but in fact I note that this was the reason. Does the Prime Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u204	I wasn't there. That's what they're saying. There have also been misunderstandings in the police action. At one point the Israeli police were present, and Muslims thought that this restricted further access to the sacred places. I believe that the Israelis have shown convincingly that this was not the intention, but that a communication error was made. There's been such a cluster fuck, I think, those days... It is not for me to sort that out now, but that can never be a reason for 3,000 missiles on Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u205	Then I have another question, Mr President, perhaps in two, and I will now change my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u206	This is your last question. Third Interrupt, second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u207	I think my questions were rather short. I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that the bombing of the mediators must be independently investigated. Now I heard you say again: yes, but everything needs to be examined in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u208	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u209	I find that complicated, because that means nothing is going to happen. It's been tried before. Such wide-ranging investigations lead to nothing. Here is a very specific situation, where the international media are also at stake. Does this not justify independent research, which is more limited in time and scale, and which is also more realistic that it will ever come off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u210	No, I think there should be an investigation into the whole and not a specific incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the first answer. I want to continue on the unique position of the Netherlands. I would also like to look beyond the current escalation, however sad it is that so many children and women have died. But I would like to show the Prime Minister the mirror of the new generation I was talking about in my speech, both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side. What does the Minister have to offer these young people, with his individual responsibility? Because the Netherlands has a unique position, but also the Prime Minister himself, with so many years of experience in Europe. We also have our Merkel until the end of this year, with its sixteen years of experience. Where do you want to make a difference? What can these young people of both sides, so to speak, appeal to you to make a contribution to a structural solution, not just to this escalation? They are both allies of us, the West Bank and Israel. And if they are both allies of ours, sometimes we need to be able to speak harshly to get them to the table and indeed to create a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u212	So we will also use the accumulated credit that I think there is on both sides to help build coalitions in every possible way. We must not, of course, make the trousers that we are wearing too big, because in the end you will find it difficult to resolve such a conflict without the role of the UN, without the role of Egypt and, in particular, without the role of America in the background. You can see that Biden is increasingly trying to increase the pressure on Israel. But it is, of course, an extremely sensitive subject, also for the Americans, and you will need it. I think that we as the Netherlands can fight higher than our weight class there, and so can I, but we should not think that we can solve this on our own. All efforts as of 2012, setting up fora with both the Palestinians and the Israelis, are aimed precisely at seeking a full "honest broker" approach with both those contacts, with business, with young people, with everyone. This is, of course, extremely complex at the moment because of the political situation and the terrible events of recent days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u213	I recognise that it is complex and that we need the Quartet, which was mentioned by the Minister and also by us in our input, but it starts closer to home and that is Europe. Europe must also be able to show its teeth. If things are going well, we must be able to give positive impetus to the parties. And if things don't go well, we need to be able to address them. It would be very nice if we, as Europe's allies, were to sit there at the table of the Prime Minister, and that will happen more often in the coming period, so that this structural solution can be found and not just today's escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u214	I very much agree with that. This, of course, raises the difficult issue that I tried to address in a speech in February 2019: is Europe a player or a playing field? We are too often a playing field and not a player, because in the end the very large Member States are too little willing to pool powers with the High Representative and still continue to pursue their own foreign policy, especially France and Germany. And if you're trying to agree, we've seen what happens again yesterday. Then we can put the emphasis on the Hungarians, but we can also say that there were at least 26 countries that agreed. But these are, of course, also compromise texts. That's what makes it so complicated in Europe. That is why I think you should say on these kinds of issues under circumstances, and I am very much in favour of the right of veto in all kinds of areas, that the right of veto should be restricted, and that is what Dutch proposals are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u215	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the SGP and then Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u216	I would like to touch on the questions raised by Mr Segers concerning the action taken against groups that call for harmful slogans, by means of IS flags. The Prime Minister has indicated that, of course, in general, you can have views on this from the cabinet and that you can also promote it, but that the enforcement of course lies with the triangles. In itself, that's true. I welcome the Prime Minister's promise that he will breed for a while on how to make this more concrete and how to act against it. Quite simply: when is there anything to be expected about the results of these reflections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u217	I stopped sharing the results of my reflections for a moment, because I've noticed that never likes it. I think that should just become visible in how we do things. This certainly affects the good consultation with the cities, but that is good. I have no doubt at this time that the triangles are taking responsibility. There is a great deal of awareness that it is very important to show Muslims and Jews in the Netherlands that we support them. Here you see a revival of anti-Semitism, which is unacceptable. At the same time, it also asks how we connect with the groups in the Netherlands who feel threatened, how we let them know that it is their country and that we want them to stay here and not leave. That requires a special responsibility of me, but I do not come up with an interview in Nieuwsuur about this with the outcome of my reflections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u218	Then we run the risk that it will remain too much of an action of good intentions, however much you can appreciate it. It did happen, though, that ISIS flags have been waved undefeated over the last few days. If that happens again next week, what does that mean? That the Prime Minister hasn't finished thinking about whether the triangle was still not prepared for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u219	I'm not criticizing the triangle at all. It's extremely complex. Of course, people have been extra warned by what has happened in the last few days. It is very important, and this was also the focus of the consultation, that the approach between cities does not go too far. The NCTV facilitates the consultation, but of course the responsibility remains with the triangle. We're not taking it over nationwide. We have no powers to do that either, and we do not want that at all. That triangle..................................................................................................................................................................... They'll be deployed when they need to. I have no doubt about that. We have good mayors in the Netherlands, and good police chiefs and good chiefs. I think that's okay. But it is important that we have that conversation with each other, to say again. Again, again this morning, with Grapperhaus, the mayors and the chief of police: sharing information, making arrangements, how do we act and how do you prevent too much divergence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you. Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u221	I hear I don't regret the tweet I sent. When the tensions were already rising, when we saw what was happening during the Ramadan in the Al-Aqsamoskee, when we saw how people were being evicted in East Jerusalem, then we heard nothing of this cabinet. Did the cabinet also convey its concerns to the Israeli Government about what has been going on in Jerusalem for days before the missile bombings took place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u222	The developments have followed them very quickly. Eventually, the first contact on my level was Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u223	And that is at least what made a lot of Muslims in the Netherlands so furious about your tweet: they didn't hear anything all those days before. I am very pleased that the cabinet says that its great commitment is now a ceasefire and that it expects the house expropriation not to continue and the settlement policy to stop. Suppose there is a ceasefire that we all hope will be, and you can see that Israel is not prepared to respond to those other points. Does this cabinet think that you should also look within the European Union to see how you can put pressure on the Israeli Government to continue on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u224	That is what I think is asking for, including the Karabulut motion. If there were actual annexation, I think it is our duty as a Europe and also as a Netherlands in Europe to consider, in consultation with other EU Member States, what steps we can take. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u225	Thank you. Then we're ready for the next block. That's covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u226	That's covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u227	Before you do that, I see movement across the street: Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u228	I think we have shown each other how difficult this conflict is to resolve. We're not gonna get out of this ourselves. It also makes clear how difficult it is for the Israelis and the Palestinians to get out. But I would still like to question the Prime Minister on the letter sent by Minister Blok. It was in itself a letter explaining very clearly what the three main problems were. We certainly need to do something about them. Everyone here has said this: the continuing violence that must be stopped, the arms of Palestinian terror groups. Unfortunately, we can do a little less about Hamas' violence, operationally. We don't have anyone to really talk to, and they don't listen either. If there's anything we can do, we should definitely do it. I do have a question about this settlement policy. I took another look. In 2010, this Prime Minister took office. It's 2021 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u229	What year did you say? 2010?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u230	Yes. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u231	Yes. I didn't hear it. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u232	You scared the shit out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u233	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u234	Otherwise, the record of the longest-sitting Prime Minister will pass. But what I wanted to say is this. Since 2010, a small 110,000 settlers have joined, only on the West Bank. The Prime Minister has often expressed his concern about this, but there have been 110,000 in his term as Prime Minister. Isn't it time to say to Israel that if it continues, there will be a measure? For in those ten or eleven years I have not yet seen any measure of any cabinet, nor have I seen any measure of the cabinet to which my party has been a member. How does the Prime Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u235	We see, of course, the possibilities now available, also through relations in the Arab world and the price Israel has to pay for it. We're not just saying "temporarily stop," we're saying "absolutely stop." I don't think the Chamber accepted the Karabulut motion for nothing. It outlines: if it continues, it will force us here too to consider next steps, including in the European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u236	I would like to be more precise here, because the Karabulut motion is based on annexation, on the intention of the current Israeli Government, expressed in the coalition agreement, to annex a large part of the West Bank as an Israeli territory. What I'm talking about is quite another thing: building a house by house, each time one house by house, so that it doesn't get into the irritation zone of Israel's friends. That's us. The Netherlands is a friend of Israel. As a result, the Israeli Government, and at least Netanyahu itself, say: let me stop this. That would be my question to the Prime Minister. How does he expect his friend Israel to stop this behavior, which actually destroys Israel's dream?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u237	This can only be done in a broader coalition with other countries that are not Israel-unfriendly. That is really crucial, because otherwise it is impossible to play another role in resolving the conflict. That's extremely complex. We see, of course, on a broad front, that everyone is very concerned about this, but that it is extremely difficult to come up with an action perspective. I think that if the Netherlands would suddenly accelerate in this one-sided way, we have a good feeling here, but that will not ultimately help us in the position we are trying to have in resolving the greater conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u238	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u239	So that will have to go across a broad front with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u240	Absolutely. I would not like to ask the Minister about what is not possible, but if he sees that this can be done with a front of other countries that are not unwillingly disposed towards Israel, then I would challenge him to do so. I think that's something a friend would do. I think that each of us here in the Chamber would like to save their own friends from near-automation, that you destroy your own dreams and your own lives by suppressing others, in this case. If the Minister thinks there is an opportunity there, what I hear him say, then my party would very much encourage him to seize that opportunity, especially if he has a bit of a special position, he also claims it in relation to both the Israelis and the Palestinians. Then let him put it in this time. In whatever context that is, my party doesn't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u241	Yeah, but that's not that easy, you know, because that requires very precise figure saws. I don't think this is the time. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u242	Covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u243	... covid. I put covid on Israel and then it goes wrong. Sorry. I divorced them again. For starters, June 21st. The regulation is currently under negotiation by the Portuguese Presidency. That is, of course, about the DGC. Those negotiations shall take place between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. The aim is indeed 21 June, but we are not going to decide that on our own. Then there is a transitional period to make the system operational. Advice is needed here, and this is also requested. In fact, I understand that's already been asked. That's what we're getting from the Health Council and the OMT next week. We are working both technically and legally hard to be ready on 21 June or shortly after 21 June. This applies to the Netherlands. I fear there are many countries that are going to work on this more slowly. On the other hand, the cabinet is also prepared to advocate a tough deadline for the DGC. The Council's mandate includes the adoption of the Regulation for a period of 12 months. That's what we've been trying to do. That's what I'm telling Mrs. Kerseboom. The Commission shall submit a report three months before the expiry of that date. That is what is provided for. There was another question about the pilot. On 11 May, the Netherlands started the first phase of testing the connection to this Digital Green Certificate. The Gateway will consider whether it is possible for the Netherlands to upload keys and whether the Dutch QR codes can be read. Only test keys in a test environment shall be used. Mr Sjoerdsma said that the Council is now threatening Council recommendations, but we do not want to circumvent the European Parliament. I agree with that in itself. The role of the European Parliament is very important in this process. We will therefore try, wherever possible, to reach compromises within the Council and then come out with the EP. We have to be realistic about this, too, that there are currently a number of differences of understanding that affect national competences. We, but also many other Member States, do not want to interfere with that. It could therefore lead to a major problem, on which no compromise can be reached. Then it could be that converting it to a Council recommendation on such a part is the only possibility, otherwise you simply do not finish the thing in time. But that's not our bet. We want to try to get out with the European Parliament. Then the desire of many to make those tests free for people who have not yet been able to be vaccinated. I actually want to put that in "process" in good Dutch. The final European regulation, which we expect at the end of May, will determine policy. The framework conditions also determine the feasibility of such research. Whether a Member State offers tests free of charge is up to the Member State to determine. That is what all the Member States think. That is also the Dutch approach, which is supported by all 26 other Member States. But that then means that the question comes back here: what does the Netherlands do? Are you making it for free or not? Or do you make it free the first time? Other variants are also conceivable. We are now preparing how to implement this DGC. That's what I just said. In two weeks, we'll get back to the Chamber. In the meantime, there is a wide range of legal and implementing questions to be addressed. There are also all kinds of bumps about how they are implemented. We want to go through that very carefully. Minister De Jonge will inform you about this in two weeks' time, so I am currently holding the Dutch cabinet's judgement on the demand for free testing. We are going to map that over the next few weeks, along with all the other issues that lie here. Why a green book if we already have a yellow book? This has to do with the choice of a digital system with a minimum dataset. Then there is the question of patents. I think we should be careful to say that those patents should expire as far as anyone would suggest. This has far-reaching consequences for the building of a co-packing facility at factories which are not part of a pharmaceutical company but which can produce. It also has all kinds of other consequences that many Member States are concerned about in Europe. That is not the American proposal either, as some have suggested. The aim should be to increase the production of vaccines. The release of patents or wavering should not be the end in itself. The aim should be to increase vaccination production. So you have to tackle all the bottlenecks. It covers the whole chain of raw materials, qualified personnel to production sites. The Netherlands is also fully involved in this. Local production is a very important part of the medium- and long-term approach to achieving sustainable solutions. We really need to be careful that, by doing something wrong here too quickly, that local production is not going to slow down properly. By the way, the Germans are also warning against this. We also welcome, I think, many here, America's willingness to come up with a proposal that can contribute to such a constructive discussion. We will also contribute constructively to these negotiations. Again, it is also important to include that international intellectual property law contributes to the safe transfer of knowledge to those companies that do want to produce outside the pharmaceutical industry itself. In that sense, we really need to keep all the advantages and disadvantages of suspending intellectual property rights in a row. So we should not be in principle in this, but the objective must be pragmatic in order to launch patent production. The risk here is that it sounds very popular and you might think "let's do it," but that eventually you get vaccine production less quickly. So that's what we're warning you about. That must be carefully assessed. Mr. Chairman. A few of you have expressed concern that DGC is at risk of vaccination. The regulation states that having a vaccination certificate should not be the only condition for free travel, but that there are also alternatives, such as a test and recovery certificate. In other words, you don't have to be vaccinated to be able to travel, you may also have those tests. You don't see that, because that QR code works so that you can go in or not. He doesn't say: this gentleman or lady has a vaccine or a test. That shouldn't be visible, if it's okay. So that's in no way a vaccination urge. Finally, on this point. Mr Dassen said that there should be a joint strategy for the next pandemic. Agreed. Prevention and preparation for a possible next pandemic are of course very important after all the misery we have had. The cabinet is aware of this, but I also notice it widely in the European Union. That is why the Commission has also made proposals within the framework of the European Health Union. This is the subject of discussion in the Council at the moment. We support these proposals, while keeping an eye on the fact that the division of tasks of what is national and what is European is not at risk, because the next pandemic will be combated more slowly. That is the point of COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u244	Thank you. This is Mr Van der Lee's last question. After that, Mr Dassen is from Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u245	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers. I'm going to go into it in a very specific way. It was a nice answer, but I would like to know what the intention of the cabinet is going to go through this process. If possible, will the cabinet ensure that the younger generations who cannot be vaccinated in time will not face high prices for commercial PCR tests in the summer? Is that the intention? It is not a result obligation, but an effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u246	I can't say anything about that either. We really need to have that discussion among ourselves. There are, of course, different views to be weighed, such as those on the principle of profit. If you go on holiday, for which you of course all cost, these are costs that come with it. You can then of course keep the reasoning that you have not yet been vaccinated because you are too young. It is also about other issues, for example the question of when everyone has had the first shot, and whether a first shot is enough for the DGC. You can expect at this rate that if people are going to travel seriously in the summer, we will be a long way with those first stings. You have to map all of that. So I have no views on this. The cabinet really needs to consider that. That is why I say: give us the opportunity to do so over the next few weeks, also in conjunction with all other technical issues and implementation issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u247	I have a brief question about the patents. How does the Prime Minister view the possibility of buying up any patents? Because I understand that you buy the production technique with you. That would give one horde to make it easier to produce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u248	I shall come back to that in second place. I don't have enough ammo for that right now. So I shall come back to that in the second term. If there is an official listening: Mr Dassen is asking for the purchase of patents. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u249	Good. Then I have a question about the production hubs, perhaps for the second term and otherwise for the present. The European Commission is going to propose the creation of production hubs in Africa, in which vaccines can be produced by medical means. I believe that this will be discussed at the European summit. So that means you don't have to wave the patents, but you can fly it in a different way. I am curious to see how the Dutch Government looks at this and what the Dutch Government's commitment will be in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u250	Of course, in itself, the international community must re-launch this match-making between existing vaccine producers and capacity companies. This also goes through the recently announced COVAX manufacturing task force and Alt-A, because that affects that third world. I spoke about this yesterday at the conference that Macron had organised. I will look into that in the second term too. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u251	Then the last question for now. You just mentioned that you support the proposals for a European Health Union in relation to the joint pandemic roadmaps, taking into account what would then be the division of labour. I was curious to see what the Dutch effort would be. How do you see this division of labour for you? Do you see that there is some delay in that or that there are obstacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u252	We see no added value in Europe's heavy role in health care. Like social security, we're not in favour of that. But you want Europe to be able to coordinate much faster: to bring together all national health systems and make them resistant to variations or mutations of the existing corona crisis or whole new pandemics. Of course, that's a lesson you can learn, including everything that has to do with the whole technique around it and the tools. Look at last year, at the chaos surrounding mouth caps in Europe, where we did not get them exported from France and you name it. Of course, Europe has enormous added value in this, but that really is coordination, the whole logistics, the pooling. It is not the case that Europe is given decisive powers in this. We're not comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u253	And when are these pandemic maps coming? Do you have any eyes on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u254	No. They're working on it. There's no time limit for that yet, no. But it is at gunpoint with the Commission and with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u255	Let me get this straight. The Prime Minister said about patents and vaccines: the goal is that vaccines are available worldwide, and the resources are subordinate to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u257	Do I understand the Prime Minister correctly when I say that there are no taboos, even when it comes to those patents and the possibility of buying up or releasing intellectual property?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u258	No, but it's a hesitation. There is really a hesitation, because I agree with the analysis that Merkel makes, that you have to be very careful. In the end, first of all, you want pharmaceutical products to continue developing vaccines, which may need to be modified due to new variants or mutations. You don't want to discourage them in that. They shouldn't think: yes, then we did it and then Segers and Rutte take it away from us again. Secondly, and that is even more subtle, intellectual property rights are also important for a pharmaceutical to be able to transfer knowledge to other companies. So it's about those two things. There's the transfer to companies, I think, copackers that haven't developed it themselves but are producing it. In the Netherlands we also have a few examples of this. And besides, you don't have to remove the incentive to eventually continue developing new vaccines or developing existing vaccines. I therefore believe that we must ensure that we do not look too easily at this, without having a taboo with Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u259	I get that. At the same time, there was a global incentive to get a vaccine very quickly. We had it within a year. So there has been a huge incentive, a lot of work has been done and it has been done. If it makes a difference in a country like India, where it is now so terrible and where they might have the production capacity, then my encouragement would be to keep all options on the table and indeed avoid all taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u260	Sure, once. Totally. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u261	Russia. And Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u262	He always comes last. That's a strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u263	I'm always a little surprised how fast the Prime Minister goes through the blocks. I still have a question about corona, about the process which the Prime Minister said: it is not our intention to reach a Council recommendation, but it could happen. I'd still like to ask him what it's all about. As I understand it, the third trialogue took place today, the European Parliament has in principle accepted almost all of the Council's demands and the EP has called back two concessions from the Council, namely affordable testing, free testing, and the imposition of additional national restrictions only if there is a scientific basis based on ECDC advice. I would like to look at what the Prime Minister says: that is simply unacceptable to us. We are going on this strange route of the Council recommendation. That's not legislation. It also leads to strange institutional crises in Brussels. I'm just trying to figure out where the tension is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u264	What I do not want right now is to negotiate with the European Parliament through the national parliament. You can't. This is, of course, now with the procedures in Brussels. It also listens to what is happening here. But I don't think it's going to promote the case if I say now: there might still be a concern or something else is going on there. It is, of course, never just the Netherlands, but always a whole basket of countries that have a concern somewhere. For us, we really do want to try to get out of there on the full front with the EP. But there has been a discussion lately that has touched on national competences. This cannot be discussed on a broad front of Member States. We don't want to interfere with that. I think Sjoerdsma's right that we can get out of there, but I don't know exactly the latest state of it either. I would not like to share it either, because I am afraid that I will increase the confusion in Brussels, and you will never have to do your best in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u265	Before the Prime Minister goes to the next block: the question about the 18 countries plus Iceland who do a test with the vaccination certificate is still open. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the Netherlands is participating? When are these results coming up? How are they shared? For us that's still a bit of the black box.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u266	I know there's a test going on with the connection. I do not know whether that is the same and whether that is the 18 countries with Iceland. But since May 11th, a test has been going on with the Digital Green Certificate gateway, looking at what is possible to upload keys. In the first test phase only test keys in a test environment shall be used. Those tests will continue live with experts from the participating countries. The results of the tests shall be shared directly. I suppose that's the same as the test with the 18 countries plus Iceland, but I didn't know it was exactly 18. Then you'll know more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u267	The question is, are we in? Can the Prime Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u268	The Netherlands has started the first phase of that testing, yes. But I'm not 100% sure that's the same thing as the 18-country test. Sounds the same. Mr. Chairman. Then Russia. That's also for discussion. It was originally scheduled for March, but was then postponed, because we could not physically meet then. That discussion is due to the obviously very worrying recent developments, including the situation surrounding Aleksandr Navalny and the recent Russian troops building up on the Ukrainian border. I think it is good that we as the European Union continue to discuss how we can relate most effectively to Russia. That is why it is right that we should discuss it in the Council. Is there indeed agreement that the five principles are and continue to guide the relationship between the EU and Russia? We're really in favour of that. In line with these five principles, the Netherlands approaches the en-en approach: pressure where it should be and cooperation and dialogue where it can be done. They also asked about the force field. I believe that the European Union currently has a great deal of agreement on Russia's policy. Of course, there is always a compromise, but I think the European Union can make a strong statement against Russia if it violates international standards. A comprehensive set of sanctions is now in force and is being extended consistently and with unanimous support. I am also truly pleased that the European Union has recently imposed sanctions against four people in connection with the persecution and conviction of Aleksandr Navalny. The European Union has also repeatedly extended sectoral sanctions against Russia in response to Ukraine's action since 2014. EU unity is crucial here, otherwise the EU will not be able to make a fist. We will discuss at the European Council how we can operate even more effectively and act in our common policies. This is certainly not intended to weaken things, quite the contrary. Indeed, the use of people-to-people contacts is very important for both the Dutch and the European Union's policies. That is one of twenty focus countries for international cultural policy of our cabinet. Also in the field of education and science, the Dutch government is active in connecting Russians and Dutch. At European level, there are many examples of this, such as the Erasmus+ programme, which gives young Russians the opportunity to study in the EU, as well as Horizon 2020, where scientific cooperation is open to Russian participants. Finally, visa facilitation has been set up for Russian students, scientists, journalists and NGOs staff, which makes it easier for them to travel to the European Union. Then about Navalny. For my part, I would also like to say a little more specifically that the poisoning and persecution of Navalny are worrying and totally unacceptable. It is therefore also a good thing that sanctions against those responsible have been adopted partly by the use of the Netherlands. It is very important that he is not forgotten now. We're following developments very closely. The Netherlands participated in the European coordinated monitoring sessions of its lawsuits. Where possible, we ask for attention to be paid to his treatment and we also call for his immediate release. We'll do it both in front of the scenes and behind the scenes. This is also happening at European level. The High Representative brought the matter up during his visit to Moscow on 4 March. On 18 April he published a statement on the situation of Navalny on behalf of the Netherlands. We will continue to monitor the situation and, if necessary, take further steps where possible. Then about Nord Stream 2, chairman. As you know, the cabinet has a neutral position with regard to Nord Stream 2. We see it as a commercial project, which, of course, takes account of the geopolitical aspects. That is why it is not obvious to call for a construction stop, because we are neutral in this matter and it is a commercial project. Moreover, this gas pipeline does not cross Dutch territory and therefore a decision is not for the Dutch government either. No agreements have been made with Moscow on Nord Stream 2. That wouldn't fit our neutral position either. This was my answer to Mrs Piri's questions. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked about it and spoke about motions adopted on it. The motion-Van den Nieuwenhuijzen c.s. calls on the government to urge Germany and the European Commission to apply the Gas Directive strictly. The Gas Directive is strictly applied, including as regards Nord Stream 2. A request from Nord Stream 2 for a derogation from the Gas Directive was rejected last May by the competent authority in Germany, the Bundesnetzagtur. The consortium appealed against this to the German court. It's still going on. The Van der Staaij motion calls on the cabinet to continue its efforts at EU level to minimise dependence on Russian gas. In response, Minister Blok of Foreign Affairs and Minister Van 't Wout of Economic Affairs and Climate, in March, sent a letter to the Chamber on strategic dependencies in the energy domain. It also looks at the energy relationship with Russia in detail, including the importance of functional cooperation in this respect. I believe that it is also important in this context to reiterate our commitment to Ukraine's transit of Russian gas, even after 2024, when the current agreement expires. Then there was a question from Mr Dassen about the veto on the common European foreign policy. I answered them in the context of the questions on Israel and the Middle East. That's it for Russia, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u269	On that veto, and also on the paper you wrote together with your colleague Mr Sánchez. In my opinion, this paper contains some very good points, not only in the area of the right of veto, but also in other areas. My question is: how has this paper been received by your colleagues, and what are the follow-up steps you are taking to ensure that whatever is in it will also be realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u270	That paper was received positively in itself. Of course, it's never one hundred percent embraced by anyone. Unfortunately, that's always the way it is. But he's received positive. I thought it was very important to do this, because it shows... I think, of course, that the Netherlands should build on the relationship with Germany and France. With Germany, of course, it is always very strong. Especially since Hollande, but actually even when I worked with Sarkozy, and certainly with Macron, with whom I am also in the same political family, there is a very close cooperation with the French. It is not necessarily there in the area of the euro, although we have always come out of it. We have been able to solve the French proposals for stabilisation mechanisms in a form in which it was possible for the Netherlands and France to do well. But we are also very close to France when it comes to relations with China, the EU's foreign policy, the approach to migration. In addition, of course, we have a relationship with a number of northern Member States. Roughly that is sometimes called the Hanzeliga, an intensive cooperation with countries in the Balticum and Scandinavia. Ireland is also a part of this. With the previous government of Slovenia there was one; it is now a bit difficult with the current Prime Minister. Of course, we also work very closely with the Benelux. But, and here it comes: I also think cooperation with southern Europe is important. You have to stop it from being too much North-South in Europe. Because of the personal good relations with Pedro Sánchez, who runs a pretty left-wing government, we said: we will see if we can manage for a cabinet in the Netherlands, which runs from the centre, to write a joint EU paper with a whole left-wing government in Spain. And yes, it did, on a number of points. This is also important in relation to the French ideas on strategic autonomy, which we both said: "That's a beautiful term, but what exactly comes out of that teat, if you're going to suck it? Shall we develop some ideas for that together?" I think we did it. One of its points is the European Union's ability to act on the world stage. I just made that point: are you a player or a playing field? I also mention the speed of response. That's where the point of QMV is. We in the cabinet say that the Netherlands is in favour of dropping the veto in the case of sanctions and human rights declarations. But at the moment you see that specific proposal with other Member States simply lacks support, so I do not see that happening. But this will of course help to increase the pressure on that discussion in the end. This was also the subject of Stef Blok's letter of 17 May last. He may also be able to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u271	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u272	One more question. If you are at that European summit, what concrete steps will you take with this letter, and certainly with the proposal on majority voting and veto rights in foreign policy? How are you going to ensure that this discussion is progressing and that it is possible to achieve greater acceptance within the present and a short period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u273	This European Council is not going to help. This isn't there either. I will have to make every effort to be as comprehensive as the Chamber wants me to be about Israel and the Middle East, because that is not at all on the agenda. I cannot force an item on the agenda, but I will probably name it when I talk about Russia or abroad. Then I will also say: there is more to the world. Then I will make a bridge to a number of key points in this debate. I will also try to reflect this in the European Council report. This is not something for the European Council. If I bring it in there, it's broken, because then everyone's gonna commit: we're against it. You saw the same thing, of course, with the sanction regime that Stef Blok negotiated behind the scenes. With such things, such as the human rights sanctions regime, it only works if you do so in small circles, involving more and more countries. But that's gonna take a long time. I really don't assume... Then I finally come to the French and the Germans; they are not just going to let that go. This is, of course, Europe's big problem: the largest Member States are so dominant in Europe's foreign policy and attach such importance to the sovereign French Republic and the sovereign Federal Republic which pursue their own foreign policy, that this will really be something of the longer breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u274	Thank you. In any case, I am pleased that the Prime Minister wants to move this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u275	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u276	Then we'll go to the cube of climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u277	Yeah, climate. I'll say a few things about that. In fact, that is a bit of an intermediate discussion, since, strictly speaking, there is nothing new at the moment. We must wait for the Commission's proposals, based on the December decision-making process, when we reached an agreement on 55%. In fact, we do not want to do more than wait for it and respond to it in the relevant Council formations, and not in the European Council, if only because everything has to be unanimous there and that some countries give too much power again to block things. The European Council cannot and will not return to the ambition of the December conclusions. That's really unspeakable for us. They're standing. They're stuck. Now we need to see how we're going to achieve it. A rendezvous was just agreed in December so you can't get out of it, but you'd rather not talk about it Monday and Tuesday at all, because such a discussion actually has only risks, but good. One. Don't come back to those ambitions. I really think that's settled. Then you can see if you can give some general guidance from the European Council. As a political driving body of the Union, we could do so. But don't make any detailed arrangements, because you can't get out of it, and everything has to be unanimous. The negotiations on that Fit for 55 legislative package must of course be done in the relevant Council formations, so that you do not destroy everything in advance by means of vetos in the European Council. A few specific questions, first of all those concerning the subsidiarity of the Green Deal. Climate policy, of course, goes beyond borders by definition, so the Netherlands cannot do that alone. The objectives agreed in the Paris Agreement cannot be achieved if measures are taken only at national level. Of course, subsidiarity and proportionality are guiding principles in European legislation and regulation. That is what we systematically assess all the Commission's proposals on. That is what we will do with the legislative proposals from Fit for 55 in July. We will inform the Chamber. Then there is the issue of ETS versus ESA. Of course, there are all kinds of ideas to move things from ESA to ETS. We are very reluctant to do so. You could have another discussion about shipping, but when it comes to built environments and transport, we are already a lot more worrying without wanting to record ourselves on that right now. The Netherlands does not support specific objectives for the built environment under ESA. There isn't now. It is also up to the Netherlands to determine this distribution under transport, agriculture and built environment. We are therefore reluctant to extend the ETS to the built environment and road transport. The expectation is that it is not very effective in the Netherlands because of the high implicit CO price we already have in the Netherlands through taxes and excise duty. I have already explained this to Merkel: driving in the Netherlands costs a few dimes. So the question is whether this would help, but we await the Commission's proposals and impact assessments. It will in any case not be Monday... We will try to prevent it leading to sudden new decisions. How do we keep in touch with the climate leaders? Well, that's where we're at. We are members of the leading group of ambitious Member States. We are, too, because I believe that this is the best way to link left and right in politics. With a level playing field, the Netherlands as an innovative economy can create maximum jobs. I keep predicting that by 2030 we will have 1 to 2 million jobs that we don't know about right now and that come from the climate and energy transition. And hey, in the meantime, of course, we have also achieved those objectives. That was the main point. Then there is Mrs Kamminga's question. We are indeed looking forward to the proposal for the carbon border adjustment mechanism. This is, of course, important to counter carbon leakage and encourage other countries to develop more ambitious climate policies. Mrs. Kamminga named that, too. In doing so, we are ensuring that this becomes a protectionist measure. I think she was right about that. Nor is it in line with the principles of the WTO. WTO conformity is one of the main concerns of the Netherlands on this issue. Other priorities include a phased introduction and reduction of administrative burdens, the importance of feasibility and the importance of respecting the geopolitical context. We look forward to the proposal. Animal transport is not on the agenda for this European Council. On 23 April, Mrs Schouten, the Minister for Agriculture, promised in a committee debate with the Chamber that she would commit herself to a ban at EU level. This was repeated by the Minister in the answers to questions put to the Chamber by Mr Vestering, Mr Wassenberg and Mr De Groot, who were sent to the Chamber on 6 May. We therefore agree on this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the money from the Recovery Fund. Can we use that to achieve climate goals? Yes, we have chosen not to present a proposal before 30 April, but to do so next year at the next possible time. So that's up to the next cabinet or, if it doesn't, to this outgoing cabinet. Then we have to do it ourselves, but you can hope that there will be a new cabinet. Of course, the greening condition, which is linked to that regulation, will lead to this: at least 37% of the resources must be devoted to climate change. Mr President, I would like to cut in on two final questions. Firstly, one of Mr Sjoerdsma on the Law containment consequences Brexit. Do we see the need to finally activate that law? We believe that the rights of EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens in the European Union are well regulated in the withdrawal agreement. That is what the current British Government and future British governments are bound to do. It is reciprocal and legally binding. We are closely monitoring the implementation of the agreements. That is what we do as a cabinet, but the European Commission, of course, does. The protection of civil rights is the subject of regular discussions in Brussels. At the end of April, the UK and EU discussed the issue in the specialised Committee on Civil Rights. Our embassy in London is working with the EU delegation to provide information to European/Dutch citizens. At the end of April, the most recent digital information session was held. We're gonna keep doing that. So we think there are enough channels to address any concerns, pick up signals and discuss them with the UK. Finally, the question from the CDA's angle for a brief reflection on the outcome of yesterday's Financing African Economics Summit. I took part in that virtually with a lot of other colleagues. There were also people physically present in Paris. Everything was led by Emmanuel Macron, the President of France. The summit brought together leaders of Africa, Europe and the G20 countries to discuss the health and economic impact of the COOVID-19 pandemic on Africa. Of course, it's huge. I have chosen the 3+1 approach. I have outlined, in line with many other contributions, the great importance of tackling the health crisis, addressing the wider financial issues arising from the recovery of African economies, which is specifically needed, including from the private sector and foreign investment, and the role of the IMF in it. I have also said that, of course, this is not only a responsibility of the countries outside Africa, but that Africa itself has a role to play in reforming its economies, in such a way that the earning capacity and the ability to collect taxes are further developed there. I could say that because Ramaphosa, Kenyatta, Ouattara of Côte d'Ivoire and a lot of presidents made that point. It's acknowledged. That is widely endorsed. So that was not so much with the finger, but more echoing what colleagues from Africa said about it. It was a very useful meeting. Very important was "the meeting was the message," even more than the precise declarative statements afterwards, and Africa knows that we are on their side. That's in our best interest, too. This is a humanitarian interest, but it is also a health interest. That's humanitarian, too. Of course, you're only safe if we're all safe. Mr President, I think I have tried to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u278	We need to keep up the tradition where I come last. The Prime Minister said that there are a lot of channels to discuss any concerns about Dutch citizens in the UK, and a lot of different gremia. I did not hear him give an appreciation of what is happening there: 30 EU citizens are being held in British immigration detention centres. In a representative opinion poll among European citizens in the UK, half say they have no confidence in equal treatment. That is something forward looking, which you can say is an expectation, and that is not yet concrete. I would like to tell the Prime Minister that a quarter says they are not being treated equally at the moment. That's a poll from the Independent Monitoring Authority. I find these numbers so worrying that I not only think that it is wise that we have those channels, but that we should also use them. If that bet doesn't work, we're gonna have to activate that law anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u279	On that last, out of that quarter that doesn't feel treated equally, I'll come back in second term. That's news to me. I would have seen that point of 30 civilians. In itself, it was legitimate for the UK to refuse. This had to do with the end of the free movement of persons and the covid restrictions. My information allowed them to do that. Moreover, the EU delegation is in close contact with the Home Office in London to further improve the situation. Obviously, in anticipation of return, preferably in freedom, contact with the embassy of the Member State is possible. Therefore, we see no reason to activate the Brexit Law, but I shall look again at the signal from that study, which is that a quarter says that they are not treated equally. I am also asking for that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u280	We are closing this first term with Mr Dassen, not Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u281	Hey, that's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u282	I won't make a habit of it, Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday the conference on the future of Europe began. I believe that four events have now been organised in the Netherlands. I believe that this is a unique opportunity to ensure that people are included in what Europe is doing, what is happening there and what that means. Perhaps this European summit is an opportunity to give extra schwung. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister to give us a little more insight into this European summit. This can be done very easily, by recording a video after the European summit, explaining briefly what you have discussed, what you are doing there, who you are talking to and where you are. This is how people get an insight into such a European summit. Would you take that with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u283	Nice. Sure, I will. I'm making one of those videos. I did it at the UN once. I hope this video will be just as successful. But I'm gonna do it. I like the idea. This is not for the second time, but we must also carry out this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u284	Thank you. We're all looking forward to that video. This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Everyone has two minutes to ask any questions or make motions. I would ask all Members to really stick to those two minutes, also looking at the number of motions that will be tabled. We shall vote tomorrow on the motions tabled. Mr Kuzu has also announced his intention to vote by roll call tomorrow on one or more of his motions. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is remarkable that climate change is so high on the agenda and that at the same time there is nothing new under the sun. It is true that there is talk of the direction that the 55% reduction could take. What the cabinet is doing in there is still quite unclear to me. On that point, I have a question for the Prime Minister. The EU has determined on that 55% that this is 55% net reduction. This could also mean that the natural capture of CO could be included. That is to say, we are going to use the amount of forest in Europe to include the amount of CO captured there in the reduction target. Can the Prime Minister promise me that at least the Netherlands would not agree to such a calculation trick? In addition, I would like to propose one point in terms of climate, and that is to put my own hands into it. Moving to Strasbourg costs a huge amount and it also costs huge amounts of CO emissions. We can save some 20 000 tonnes of CO emissions if we stop moving. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament (EP) has not held plenary sessions with full physical occupation in Strasbourg since March 2020;]] [[Whereas the strike of the moving circus to Strasbourg prevented more than 20,000 tonnes of CO emissions and saved more than 114 million euros of tax money;]] [[noting that the moving circus will resume in June;]] [[calls on the government to actively promote at the forthcoming European Summit a final end to the monthly movement circus to Strasbourg,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1667]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about corona, about making free testing possible this summer for those who have not yet been vaccinated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the free movement of persons is one of the cornerstones of the EU;]] [[Whereas the European Union is working on the digital green certificate, facilitating travel with a vaccine or test certificate or in the recovery of corona;]] [[Whereas at the beginning of this summer not all Dutch people have been (fully) vaccinated;]] [[considers that it is therefore desirable to make available the tests necessary for intra-EU traffic free of charge;]] [[invites the Cabinet to indicate how each Dutchman can be free of charge in order to be tested this summer with a test of his choice, including a NATE (PCR) test, and to inform the Chamber within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Dassen and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1668]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u287	There has also been a long talk of the violence taking place in Israel and Palestine. Many colleagues have spoken about the need to establish a ceasefire. I believe that all of us want the horrible violence to stop and that innocent civilians, men, women and children, can live in freedom and security. I also think that a large part of the Chamber believes that it is necessary to bring both parties back to the table and that measures are also needed for this, both positive and negative behaviour should be rewarded. It can't just be a convict statement. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Israelis and Palestinians are looking for a ceasefire;]] [[Whereas the root causes of the conflict will not be solved without international pressure on both parties;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is a reliable partner for both Israelis and Palestinians;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is committed to a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a ceasefire;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to formulating positive measures in the conclusions of the European Council and to use effective means of pressure to get the Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1669]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u289	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u290	Does this mean the option of boycotting the Palestinian Authority, Gaza and Israel? Is that on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u291	I personally think it is very important not to send the cabinet out with a certain list of recipes. I think that we have seen this in recent years, and I asked the Prime Minister that the behaviour of the Government of Israel, the behaviour of Hamas and, moreover, the behaviour of the leaders of the Palestinian Authority, did not bring the two-state solution any closer. We have never succeeded, not as the Netherlands, but also as the European Union, in laying down a package of measures which on the one hand tempt parties to take positive steps... In my own term I have mentioned things about this. I will not put it on this motion because the parties who have signed this motion may not agree with that. But I have said, for example, that on the Palestinian side, I can imagine that recognition will be granted. On the Israeli side, I can imagine the need for security guarantees to ensure that people in Israel can live in security. On the other hand, however, there is also behaviour by governments that you say is moving the two-state solution further. A measure must be taken against this. We haven't done that in the last 10 to 11 years. But I am not going to pre-sort what measure that should be, because that is what I must agree with the Prime Minister in that I can also do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u293	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u294	Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u295	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our Constitution states in Article 90 that our government must actively promote the international legal order;]] [[noting that our government has indicated that Israel has violated international law;]] [[states that it is not permitted for countries, including Israel, to violate international law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Human Rights Watch and the Israeli Human Rights Organisation B'Tselem concluded in a report that the system is an apartheid regime in Israel;]] [[declares that the Chamber is against apartheid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Israeli authorities wish to proceed to illegal expulsions in the Sheikh Jarrah district of Jerusalem;]] [[declares that the Israeli authorities must refrain from these illegal expulsions of Palestinian families in Sheikh Jarrah,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Israeli authorities violently invaded the Al-Aqsamoskee during Ramadan;]] [[Whereas this is a violation of the status quo in holy places;]] [[says Israel must respect the status quo in holy places,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Israel continues to annex Palestinian territory and that this is contrary to international law;]] [[calls on the Government to raise at the EU Summit that Israel should not annex Palestinian territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the Palestinian State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide material support for the building of the Palestinian State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at EU level to comply with Article 2 of the EU Association Treaty with Israel and therefore suspend it until Israel complies with international law and respects human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to press for joint European action at EU level to end the Israeli blockade in Gaza,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1670]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1671]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1672]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1673]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1674]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1675]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1676]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1677]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1678]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u296	Last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to cease the Dutch military cooperation with the Israeli Government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1679]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u297	I'll save the rest for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u298	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u299	That's an attack on the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u300	"We can also do it digitally," says Mr Kuzu. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u301	Mr. Chairman. I can't match a row of motions like that. I only have three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has condemned violence from Gaza as a result of which Israeli citizens have been killed;]] [[Considering that Israel is using far more lethal force against Gaza, including civilian targets, killing more than 200 Palestinians, including dozens of children;]] [[calls on the government to condemn this violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the creeping annexation of Palestinian territory continues, including in East Jerusalem, where more than 1,000 Palestinians are in danger of being evicted;]] [[Whereas last year a motion (32735, No. 301) called on the Government to identify options for action in the event of Israel annexing Palestinian territory;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at EU level to arrive rapidly at a number of concrete measures against Israel if the annexation of Palestinian territory continues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Israel is using violent force against Gaza, including against civilian targets, resulting in more than 200 Palestinians being killed, including dozens of children;]] [[Considering that human rights organisations express serious concerns about possible war crimes committed by Israel;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has a wide range of military relations with Israel, including military cooperation and arms trade;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in detail in the near future with a view to possible suspension of cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1681]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1680]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1682]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u302	Mr. Chairman. Since it was not possible in my first term, I now congratulate my colleagues Eppink, Kamminga and Kerseboom. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. What may still be a little weird in the end is that we are not sure whether it will be on the agenda of the European Council. I think that all of us who have had this debate this evening would find it rather strange if this is not discussed among the Heads of Government. You just spoke of your good relationship with the French presidents, and specifically Macron, because it belongs to your political family. So I would also ask that perhaps Mr Charles Michel should at least send an app to see if this could be officially placed on the agenda. For my part, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that settlement policy is contrary to international law and that there is structural inequality between the different population groups, including legislation allowing for home expulsions;]] [[considers that without a solution to the underlying causes, an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not possible;]] [[calls on the Government to join the group of countries calling on Israel to abandon settlement policy and to work at EU level to establish a list of means of pressure that can be used if Israel continues with settlement policy;]] [[calls on the Israeli Government to address the remaining violations of international law and to use concrete means of pressure to allow the Palestinian Authority to organise democratic elections in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Dassen and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1683]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u303	Mr President, three modest motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Hamas and other terrorist groups from Gaza, with their terrorist attacks, put the Israeli and its own population in life-threatening situations;]] [[calls on the Government not only to condemn this terrorist violence, but also to address the state actors such as Iran, Qatar and Turkey who fuel, support and/or facilitate this violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1684]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u304	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the terrorist attacks of Hamas and others must be condemned and Israel deserves our full support;]] [[Considering that the Navy ship the Sr. Ms. Evertsen on 22 May for a long journey from Den Helder will leave and soon sail through the Mediterranean;]] [[calls on the government to send the Sr. Ms. Evertsen to send a port visit to Israel as a token of friendship and support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u305	Third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Israel has the right and duty to protect its citizens from the wave of terror attacks by Hamas and others;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should support that right in words and gesture;]] [[calls on the Government to stop all financial aid to Palestinian organisations immediately;]] [[calls on the Government to give the amount of money to be saved to Israel for the purchase of Iron Dome rockets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Prime Minister for his answers. I have firmly put my name under the motions of Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Piri in relation to the war that is still going on. The ceasefire is not yet in place, but I hope that will happen very soon. I also assume that if that is not there at the time of the summit, there will be a discussion on this subject in any case. I hope the Prime Minister can confirm that. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that independent media coverage is also crucial from conflict areas;]] [[Considering that following an announcement on 15 May 2021, the IDF brought down a building in Gaza City which had housed several international media for many years;]] [[whereas the IDF claims that Hamas would have carried out hostile activities from this premises, but that, for example, Associated Press denies this and it has been said from American government sources that they have not seen evidence from the IDF for this;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, through the European Union and bilateral channels, an independent investigation into the targeted destruction of this media building,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1687]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u307	I have heard the Minister say that he is okay with this being investigated, but in a broader investigation. I can live with that, but I would like to ask him who he is going to bring that up with and how he is going to ensure that a broader investigation is actually going to be carried out, including this media building. That's what this is about. Dan covid. I would just like to say that I really hope that the Prime Minister will work with the cabinet to pay particular attention to young people so that they do not suffer the high costs. We'll see about that in two weeks. Finally. The Prime Minister is a historian. He said the pipeline is a commercial project. I recommend he read the book of Wendelmoet Boersema, Groningen gold. This is relevant for Groningen, but especially for Gazprom's geopolitical commitment and Putin's policy. He can learn a lot from that and perhaps that will also lead to action in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I shall confine myself to one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Israel is entitled to proportionate self-defense;]] [[noting that Hamas violates international (war) law by using unguided missiles that fall on civilian targets, and employing civilians as human shields;]] [[calls on the Government to support Israel's legitimate self-defense in the context of the EU cease-fire efforts and to promote conditionality to prevent Hamas and other terrorist organisations from re-arming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1688]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u310	So that is not a result obligation, but an effort obligation. I'm just gonna call it a minute. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u311	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I would also like to thank him for his efforts to keep both channels open in a polarized Chamber and a polarized world and a polarized region, at least with both the Palestinian authorities and Israel. Whatever role, however modest, we can play, if it contributes to peace, I wholeheartedly support and encourage him to do so. I signed Mr Sjoerdsma's motion when it comes to free PCR tests, or at least free testing. I thank the Prime Minister for the fact that there are no taboos when it comes to the intellectual property of vaccines. If that could contribute to a higher vaccination rate in places where it is very much needed, we are waiting for the discussions to take place. Finally, Madam President, a motion on anti-Semitism. That's an evil that's growing here, that's getting stronger here. We've seen it in different European cities. It would be a good thing to have a European approach to this evil. However we stand in that Israeli-Palestinian conflict, anti-Semitism must never be allowed. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Israeli-Palestinian conflict also leads to tensions between populations in our country and elsewhere in Europe;]] [[having noted that in recent days there have been anti-Semitism manifestations in European cities at various anti-Israeli demonstrations;]] [[Whereas the fight against the persistent evil of anti-Semitism also requires a cross-border, European approach, as designed, inter alia, by the European coordinator against anti-Semitism;]] [[expresses the view that there should be no room for anti-Semitism within European civilisation;]] [[calls on the Government to press ahead with the forthcoming European Council to condemn the growing anti-Semitism within Europe and to work for a firm cross-border and European approach to anti-Semitism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Kamminga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1689]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u313	I would like to congratulate Mr Kamminga on her maiden speech, as did Mrs Kerseboom. I couldn't have done that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kamminga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u315	Like Mr Piri, I join in congratulating my colleagues who, like me, had their maiden speech. That always turns out to be a very nice moment. Many thanks, of course, to the Prime Minister for his reply. I have learned a lot in this debate. At times and lately I have thought: am I in the right debate? Because it was, to a large extent, a subject on which I am not necessarily the spokesman and which was not on the agenda either. But I also like the fact that it shows how involved this Parliament is in the current situation and this important issue. That is why we have also supported Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on this issue. I understand very well what the Prime Minister is saying. It is not on the agenda either, but still, if there is any way to discuss it, I would ask him to do so. I thank the Prime Minister for seeing if and how a free vaccine can be. I'm happy about that. That's important to the VVD. I myself come from an implementation organisation, so I know how important it is that something is also feasible. So thank you for that. And, indeed, perhaps just a few moments later, Mr Segers said that I support the motion tabled by Mr Segers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u316	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I think we have had a good debate on the great problem that exists in the Middle East and that there is momentum. That is why I support Mrs Piri's call for this to be placed on the agenda. Where there's a will, there's a way. I just saw on Teletext that Biden once again explicitly asked for a direct cease-fire. I also hope that this week will really work. But after that, we have the structural solution. There's momentum for that. I asked the Prime Minister today to take responsibility for the next generation. We wholeheartedly support Mr Sjoerdsma's motion with a number of other parties. There is therefore broad support for this direction and mandate for the Prime Minister to announce this in Europe. The Prime Minister himself talked a few times about an independent international evaluation or research. The question to the Prime Minister is: how are you going to address it, who are you going to raise it to? If we do not want to take all kinds of advances now, we need an international investigation into what is happening. I did not receive an answer in my first term to my question about the Palestinian elections. How does the Minister view that? 'Cause they're needed after 15 years. The point made by the Prime Minister about Europe, a playing field or a player, I think is very important in the debate that we are going to have next year on the future of Europe. Europe must be able to move forward where necessary. As far as covid is concerned, we also support Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. Mrs van den Berg does indeed want to make it possible for young people to get at least one test for free, so that they can go on holiday. Thanks to the Prime Minister. People to people for Russia. Even though it is very difficult in this situation with such a large country as Russia: peoples must continue to support each other. The same goes for meeting is the message, about Africa. We in Europe are very much concerned with the current situation in the context of covid and the recovery of the economy, but if we do not solve it on the continent, we will get it back as a boomerang.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. My compliments to the messengers that they've been cleaning everything up so fast all night, actually all day long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u319	I fully agree with that, Mr President. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a pandemic has been affecting the world for a year and a half;]] [[Considering that many Europeans have become ill and died, and that the pandemic has also caused serious damage to European economies;]] [[noting that a coordinated European approach to the corona virus is still lacking;]] [[Whereas faster and more decisive action could have prevented many deaths, sick people and economic damage;]] [[Whereas a new pandemic can only be prevented or effectively addressed by rapid and targeted intervention and pooling of knowledge and skills in cooperation with other countries;]] [[Whereas such cooperation should be well prepared before a further pandemic occurs;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to call on the European Summit to have a European Roadmap to combat the pandemic by the end of the year, with the necessary resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1690]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u320	Then the next motion. I am, of course, glad that we discussed the European Summit and European cooperation today. I hope that we will do so much more in the Chamber in the coming years. To give everyone a reminder, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch flag is already present in the plenary session of the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that in many European countries such as France, Germany, Spain and Italy, besides the national flag, the European flag is also present in Parliament's plenary session;]] [[whereas a majority in the House of Representatives recognizes the vital importance of European cooperation;]] [[Whereas this ideal of cross-border cooperation has been put under increasing pressure in recent years by growing nationalism;]] [[Whereas the Court should be reminded of the importance of European cooperation in the implementation of its mandate;]] [[calls on the President of the House of Representatives, as a symbol of this interest, to place, in addition to the national tricolor, the European flag in the plenary session of the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Piri and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1691]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u321	Furthermore, I look forward to the Prime Minister's video. I'll definitely share it on social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u322	If there is a majority for your last motion, then this President will do so, but it is important that there is a majority for that in the Chamber. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kerseboom. He's dropping her second term. Then I look at Mrs Simons from BET1 for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going straight to the motions I'd like to file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Israelis and Palestinians are entitled to a just and non-violent solution;]] [[Whereas the tweet of the outgoing Prime Minister does not contribute to this, as the tweet seems to approve Israeli occupation policy and bombing;]] [[whereas Israel is supported by this tweet in rejecting peace negotiations;]] [[Whereas the tweet of the outgoing Prime Minister presents a one-sided perspective that does not reflect the structural suffering and oppressed position of the Palestinians;]] [[declares that it distances itself from the tweet of the outgoing Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1692]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u324	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u325	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u326	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to human rights organisations, Israel is guilty of crimes against humanity;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should not contribute economically to crimes against humanity, illegal occupation and apartheid by Israel;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a boycott of Israeli products and products from the settlements;]] [[calls on the government in Europe to take over this boycott by other European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to conclude contracts of the Dutch Ministry of Defence with Israeli defence companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at EU level to halt cooperation projects such as Horizon 2020 until Israel complies with international law and respects human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement a ban on goods originating from illegal colonies in occupied Palestinian territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to engage in economic relations with companies that are directly or indirectly operational in illegal colonies in occupied Palestinian territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1693]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1694]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1695]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1696]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u328	Thank you. The Prime Minister has seen the amount of motions indicated to need twenty minutes to provide them with an appreciation. I'm suspending the meeting until 9:50 p.m. I propose to Members that the Prime Minister give his appreciation and that there is no more room for questions, except if the petitioner has a question about the Prime Minister's appreciation of his or her motion, so that we can get through it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u329	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his appreciation of 30 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u330	I will briefly answer a few more questions. I would like to return to Mr Dassen's question on intellectual property rights. He can read my answer in the Acts. With regard to buy-back patents, the same basic considerations apply as with the waiver, as I outlined in the first term. Our hesitation or doubt is due to the ease with which it is thought that the free sharing of the patents via waver, or through buy-up, would in the short term lead to a scaling-up of production capacity. It's not a panacea anyway. Much more knowledge and technology is needed than is included in patents. It is not that there is one patent for a particular vaccine, or that you can set up a factory and produce a vaccine if you have a license on a particular patent. But let me be clear: we want to explore all options. There are no taboos, as I said in the first term. As regards the production hubs in Africa, long-term support for capacity building in Africa can be considered. The European Commission intends to tackle this together with the Member States under the new EU external financial instrument, NDICI. You missed the first half of the answer, Mr. Dassen. But it's gonna be in the Acts, I think, or we can call. Then there was the motion on the net climate target. In the negotiations for the higher 2030 target, the Netherlands has committed 55% reduction in emissions. Unfortunately, the December European Council did not provide sufficient support for this. In the end, the European Council agreed to a net target, i.e. both emission reduction and carbon capture through forests. We can't go back on that now. Maintaining a net target would have meant that the European Council had not reached an agreement at all. However, the European Climate Agreement includes the limitation of carbon sequestration. This is partly a response to the concern. Then there is the question of opinion polls and the 25% of EU citizens who do not seem to be treated equally in the UK. That is indeed a well-known investigation. That's what I've been called in. It is also addressed in the regular talks between the EU and the UK on the treatment of citizens. We collect as many signals as possible from Dutch citizens in the UK. Other Member States do the same. Our view is that the authorities generally keep to the agreements well. That has nothing to do with the law on limiting the consequences of Brexit. That law is not about the loss of Dutch nationality when accepting British nationality. Activation of that law would not have helped the EU citizens who have now been refused by the UK. That law ensures that Dutch citizens have the right of residence on the basis of the withdrawal agreement. Anyway, that's all technique. The essence is that we are really watching it very closely. Then there's the question about the election that was left. The Netherlands and the EU have been calling for elections for years and it is disappointing that President Abbas has postponed them. Elections would be welcomed by the EU and the Netherlands. I have also always passed that on to my Palestinian colleague. It is important for Palestinians in Westbank, Gaza and East Jerusalem to be able to vote freely. The Netherlands will be committed to this at EU level. That is what Minister Blok said yesterday in the Foreign Affairs Council. Then there's the investigation. It is not really possible at the moment to say who can do that best. There is currently a trail of the International Criminal Court. Of course, that's not up to us. In addition, this seems to be best done in the UN context, but it is too early to actually pin point it exactly now. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 1667 I don't recommend. The Netherlands is indeed in favour of one location, but this requires a treaty change. It is not on the agenda now, so there is no point in bringing this up in the European Council now, but this is on the table as far as we are concerned when there is a treaty change. Then the big question will be: who will tell Macron? The motion in part No. I actually want to leave 1668 to the Court's judgment. The final European regulation, which I expect to be put in place at the end of May, will be very decisive for policy. The preconditions also determine the feasibility of this motion. Of course, it is up to the Member States to do it or not. All Member States think so. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that you ask the Cabinet to prepare the "how" of this, we will return to the Chamber in a few weeks' time. The motion in part No. 1669: Judgment Chamber. It is just not in the conclusions of this European Council. I can't keep up with that part, because it's just not on the agenda. There will be no Council conclusions on Israel and the Palestinians on Monday; that is really very unlikely. I can't promise that here. So that particle can't be, but I'm going to commit to this. The whole motion is fine; I agree with it. But I simply cannot promise this commitment to the conclusions of the European Council on my own. But the rest is fine. The motion in part No. 1669 gets judgment Chamber. The motions on the documents Nos. 1670, 1671, 1672 and 1673 are in the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1674 I do not recommend, because the case has just been closed with regard to the annexation of Palestinian territory. I therefore do not need to raise this issue in the European Council. The motion in part No. 1675: dissuade. That is part of the overall package and the conclusion of the negotiations. The motion in part No. 1676 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1677 I don't recommend. All channels are open as far as we're concerned. We shouldn't do this. The motion in part No. I should also like to dissuade you, in fact, by referring to the debate we have had with each other. The motion in part No. I should also like to advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. I would like to dissuade 1680, because it is really too one-sided. The motion in part No. 1681 I would like to advise against referring to the debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1682. I would have the motion in part no. 1683 is untimely at the moment. We have the Karabulut motion. We're on that motion. This motion is actually asking for all kinds of follow-up steps, as if they were all necessary. So I'm actually trying to dissuade this as-dan-motion. It is true that we must fill in the 'if-then' as soon as it is discussed in accordance with the Karabulut motion. The motion could then be put to the vote. But I don't think the motion is timely right now, or at least an as-danmotion, so I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 1684 gets judgment Chamber. Let's see, is that right? Yeah, that's right, I guess. Yes! I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 1685. Oh, no, it's about that port call. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sorry, excuse me, I'm making a mistake. That cannot be foreseen in the programme now. The motion in part No. 1685 is therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. 1686 is not recommended. On the request in the motion in part No. 1687 I've just had it. We want to move towards a broader investigation. I just answered that. Against this background, this motion is specifically dissuade about the media building with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1688 is not recommended. It is unclear which conditionality is meant. When it comes to disarmament for a ceasefire, it is impossible anyway, in line with the debate, because it is not going to work in this way. The motion in part No. 1689 gets judgment Chamber. We share the concerns and not just about anti-Semitism, but this is a good motion. The motion in part No. 1690 in its present form, I would like to dissuade it. In substance, I agree with the coordinated approach. We need to be prepared for the next pandemic. They're working on it. The Commission is coming with the evaluation this summer. The deadline is at the end of this year, but that is too ambitious, especially since the pandemic is still going on. With the spirit of the motion I can live well, but there are a little too many hard deliverables in there for this moment. That is why I must dissuade the motion on balance, but we will sail on the compass of the motion. The motion in part No. 1691 is in the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1692 is in the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1693 has been dissuaded, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1694 I'd like to dissuade. I said something about defence cooperation. Against that background, the motion has been dissuaded. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1695. Let's just keep those channels open. Also the motion in part No. 1696 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1697 also goes far beyond the policy of discouragement. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. (NL) Mr President, I think I have made an assessment of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u331	Thank you. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-8.u332	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, as well as the viewers at home. We're going to vote on all the motions tomorrow. Mr Kuzu has already announced that there is a motion on which we will vote jointly and severally.
