ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. Thank you for joining us! The next item is the debate on a whole story - the Amendment of the Environmental Management Act in connection with the implementation of Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and on the implementation of the Climate Agreement, Section 35626.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	We have eleven speakers from the Chamber and this debate has been blessed with no less than three maiden speeches. Yeah, where do you find that? Well, today. I'll do the congratulations after the first term of office. Then it's gonna be a big reception here. I say this for the employees and the people with flowers and so on. The first maiden speaker and also the first speaker is Mrs Hagen of the D66 group. She's gonna put on her mouth cap right away. She asked for ten minutes for her text. And we're gonna sit tight for that! The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Really a beautiful day, with three maiden speeches. I wish my colleagues every success. It's really an honor. As a little girl, I grew up in a family where dinner was the most important moment of the day. At the kitchen table we discussed everything. My mother, teacher, with a fondness for everything that lives, grows and thrives, my father, catering entrepreneur, who had undoubtedly been a lawyer in another life, and my creative sister, who sees the world as a painting. At the table was the moment for attention to each other. Food, a kitchen table and four people with different views. The rules at the table were simple. In addition to eating with knife and fork, you may express your opinion, provided you support it. When the moods get high, you can run away, but you always come back to the table. You listen and try to move into the other's point of view, until the discussion is over and the moods are eased. Sometimes we sat at the table until deep into the night. Listening to each other and your opinion underpins his principles that are not only valuable at the kitchen table, but certainly also in our Parliament. It is about the exchange of arguments, the joint search for what is important for our society, for policies that are understandable and for which there is support. Portrait begins in every debate in this Chamber. Whether it is about mobility and infrastructure, a sustainable circular economy, a healthy living environment or the environment. The point is that we leave the Netherlands better than we recommended. And there's work to be done. Together we will lift our country out of the crisis, offering the Netherlands a perspective. We're scrambled, but we're not back from this crisis with the old normal. But do we want to go all the way back? If this crisis can teach us anything, it is that we have to deal with our environment differently, with humans, animals, nature, our earth. This crisis offers the unique opportunity to look critically at our actions. What is needed for a sustainable future that we want to pass on to our children? Market interests and individual happiness are not absolute. Open up suffocating legislation so that essential innovation can take place. Invest in future-proof mobility, a healthy living environment and a sustainable circular economy. Only together, with respect for our Earth, will we make a difference. It is time to focus on the solutions with the knowledge of the past. The lessons of this crisis lie ahead of us. Of course, our interpretations may differ, but as a Chamber we can adapt the rules of the game to the new reality. So we are not just a counterpower; we are also the legislative power. We have been given the mandate, every Member of Parliament with a joint responsibility. Mr. Chairman. Dealing well with this world is also enshrined in this law. The best step would be to fully electrify our mobility and transport, but not everything can be directly electrified. It is a complicated task not to electrify vehicles, such as in air and shipping, nevertheless to make them more sustainable. That is why we are moving temporarily with this law towards the use of biomass and resulting biofuels. This law is therefore an important step in making these sectors more sustainable. I highlight three topics: electrifying, the impact on our landscape and the up-and-down of the use of biofuels. Electric driving is the future. But in the Netherlands we have a very old fleet. On average, Dutch cars are 11 years old. This law ensures that the construction and price of loading posts is attractive. Although at village level there is sometimes still a fight for the loading pole in the street: nowhere in the world can you find a loading pole as easily as in the Netherlands. An important success, thanks to this Secretary of State. As a result, our country is leading the way in the field of electrical charging. But now we have an electric fleet. Biofuel is only an interim solution for the transition to a fully electric Dutch fleet. That is why I have two questions. How does the Secretary of State guarantee that this law mainly encourages the transition to electric driving for passenger transport? How does the Secretary of State view a double count of four for electric driving, the so-called HBE? Is the Secretary of State open to making the booking of 100% renewable electricity practically possible via a direct connection? Mr. Chairman. At present not enough biofuel is available for all sectors. With this obligation we build up the demand for biofuel, preferably with residual streams. But don't we move the problem to the future? Biofuels can have a major impact on important landscapes, just for our Earth. Only when we impose strict requirements on biofuels and monitor them can we protect unique landscapes such as the rainforest. When demand for palm oil and soya oil increases, for food, but also for biofuels, this will lead to rainforest cutting to make room for lucrative palm or soya plantations. In the legislation we call this indirect land use, also called indirect land use change: ILUC. I thought I had gotten about all the abbreviations on the subject of aviation, but I think I will still get a few more with this law. Palm oil at European level is covered by the ILUC Directive, but soya oil is not. I have therefore prepared an amendment to lay down legally that soya oil should not be mixed, even in the event of an increasing demand for biofuel. I am curious about the appreciation of the Secretary of State for this amendment. There are also concerns about PFAD, a residual product of palm oil. Can the Secretary of State explain whether there is a risk of indirect land use at PFAD? Mr. Chairman. I call on the cabinet to be wise. Put scarce biomass in those sectors where there is no alternative. Let's build up nothing we can't walk away from. For D66, the sustainability framework drawn up by the Secretary of State with her colleagues is the guiding principle. The Secretary of State wants to establish all these commitments from the sustainability framework in a covenant. When can the Chamber expect this? In addition, I would like to see a timeline, a perspective for reducing the use of biomass in the various sectors. What strategy does the Secretary of State see for biomass in the transport sector? Mr. Chairman. I went from my kitchen table to our society, our earth and our Lower House. Let us begin here, in this Chamber, by listening to each other, like at the kitchen table of my parental home, in an open debate, in which we do not look for differences, but for what connects us. Let us learn the hard lessons of the year that is behind us, and thus find the way out of the crisis for tomorrow's world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Your colleagues are going to give you a heartfelt ruffle. That was a great story. The comparison between your family and the House of Representatives may be a little limp here and there, but you will experience that. Very nice. In any case, congratulations. Soon the colleagues and the staff will be able to congratulate you. Thank you. Today's second maiden speech is that of Mrs Bouchallichh of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The floor is up to her. It also requested 10 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's an honor and a responsibility to stand here, to be elected, to represent, to fix things. But it also feels weird standing here, uncomfortable. Because with this heart of our democracy something is not right. Although this parliament represents the entire Dutch people, it is not obvious that I too stand here today. "You're a wolf in sheep's clothing," I was told. "A threat to the rule of law," was written about me. I'm told time and time again, you don't belong here. That doesn't just happen to me. Structural and institutional is the problem, in this Chamber, in the Chamber and in society. This exclusion has been going on for generations. I grew up with it and my little brother doesn't know any better. The day before the election, he saw me watching a debate. He took a look at the screen and saw Rutte and Wilders talking. Do you know what my little brother asked me then? He asked me if the men tell us to leave again. My brother's 11. It has been said, repeated and repeated to him, to me and to many Dutch people for a long time, that we must fight, adapt and be grateful. We should stop whining, work harder, talk nicely, leave history for what it is and especially not question traditions. It's all supposed to be fun. Be normal. You're lucky you were born here, because that's where it's worse. Shut up. Walking on your toes, but not in those sneakers and not in those pants. Get your hands out of your pocket, but don't put a fist in the air. Just don't be one. What am I gonna tell my little brother? What the hell are we doing? With this country, with each other. How can I change and contribute if I'm not supposed to be there? What am I getting into? I don't have all the answers. It's falling and getting up. But what I can say is that this place is from and for everyone. It should be, but too many Dutch people wonder every day: who can be, who can do and who can talk and decide? But also: who doesn't? At school, in the street and in the office, in the media, at board tables and within institutions: who determines the words that make up reality? And who doesn't? The climate crisis would not be so bad, and we should not complain and complain. It doesn't have to be that fast, does it? That's bullshit. Young people are rising up all over the world. 'Cause why go to school when the world's on fire? Too many people pretend they don't. Too often problems have been reduced in this Chamber and outside, and responsibility should have been taken. I'm part of a generation that grew up in crisis, a generation that doesn't have the luxury to look away from problems, but has to deal with them. We have learned that all forms of injustice are connected and that we should not let ourselves be played against each other. So we get up together. Against exclusion. Against the climate crisis. Against inequality. For an honest society, in which we leave nothing unspoken and hold each other, give and receive space, in which we are there for each other, even when it asks a lot of us and in which we are honest, even when it's complicated. Whether it's about biofuel, like today, about the climate crisis, which affects us all, or about the future we share on this fragile earth, it's all connected. I often think of the British Ella. She was only 9 years old. Ella lived on a busy street where for years the limit on air pollution was constantly exceeded. After a judicial investigation, this was partly recognised as her cause of death. It took far too long for this to happen, because her mother had to fight hard for it between grieving. Three guesses who lives relatively often in this kind of neighborhood, because the homes there are cheaper. Who you are, what you look like and how thick your wallet is, that matters, even in the Netherlands. Since the asthma patient Noëlle moved, she ended up in intensive care three times. Her pulmonary doctor sees a connection to her living environment. Noëlle is 6. She lives in a village near the port of Rotterdam. I have become increasingly aware of how the climate crisis increases existing inequality, how important climate justice is, how important justice is, even when it comes to biofuels. Surely it is not possible for families with less money to be deprived of their right to food because we are going to throw food in the tank here? If we allow palm oil, soya or maize to be grown for biofuels, it will drive up food prices. Forests and forests are also being destroyed for agricultural land. And too often that's land that's been robbed. Fortunately, we are starting to find each other more and more for real change and there is a broad movement emerging with the realization and experience that profit against one form of injustice and exclusion is profit for all of us. Because we may be the generation of the crisis, but we are also the generation of movement and connection. Worldwide, we rise in the footsteps of all who have gone before us, of all who dared to dream, do and be. That can only be done if we do not ignore problems and shift them to the other, to the future. This can only be done if we dare to face up to problems and take responsibility: here and now. That's what this is supposed to be about. So we can fight an intersectional battle, be there for each other, even if it asks a lot of us. So we can be honest, even when it's complicated. Maybe mostly. It should be about how everyone is of value and should be free. Free from worries about the future. Free especially not to be normal. Free to let each other be, even if it's hard, even if it's searching. Falling and getting up together. For the planet and all that lives. Done. For ourselves. For my little brother. For yours. For Ella. For Noelle. For our future. For hope above hatred, from the Chamber to the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. It's a nice personal story. That's supposed to be a maiden speech. Congratulations to you, too. At the end of the first term, I shall suspend the congratulations by the staff and colleagues. I call Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the speakers on their beautiful maiden speeches. On the one hand, we saw the logic from the kitchen table to this room, which also sounded very logical. On the other hand, we saw that it doesn't make any sense to be here. I would like to say that we must acknowledge the latter: it does not make sense. We will continue to fight for it to make sense for everyone to be able to stand here. That's what I like about these two maiden speeches. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. It was also said that it should stay cozy. I don't know if that's gonna work after I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yeah, we're gonna try. Yesterday we received the annual Monitor Brede Prosperity. That is our common tool to measure the state of our prosperity in the broad sense, not only in the here and now, but also with our broad prosperity later. It is also about how we enable future generations to achieve prosperity and how our way of life, our footprint, societies affect elsewhere. Unfortunately, the trend is continued from previous years. The first cautious conclusion is that in the here and now, in the Netherlands, we maintain prosperity by interfering on the later and the elsewhere; despite good intentions. We are not passing on a better world in terms of biodiversity, climate action, equality and natural capital at all at the moment. We hear so many times in this Chamber "if we want to pass on the world nicely" and "if we want to make it to Paris," but this year's Monitor Brede Prosperity indicates that it will not succeed in this way. Mr. Chairman. Laws should also be assessed on the broad prosperity and on the expected consequences for later and elsewhere. That's what we agreed on in this room. In front of us is an amendment to the Environmental Management Act, an important law in the context of sustainability. Therefore, we need to assess the extent to which they really contribute to the sustainability of transport in the perspective of that broad prosperity. Because this is such an important task and because the Monitor Brede Prosperity shows so clearly that it is not moving in the right direction, the Party for the Animals has great difficulty with the fact that because of this change food and forage immediately ends up in the tank of the car, the plane or the ship. In order to have sufficient biofuel at our disposal, we must immediately abandon containers around the world filled with food residues, oil on a vegetable basis, fat fry or even animal fats. According to the Secretary of State, what is it like to ship fried fat, food and fodder and then burn it here as biofuel? Here there is a risk of a repetition of the biomass drama in the generation of energy. Does the Secretary of State agree that these risks are huge here? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the effect of this law elsewhere. The law currently leaves far too much open in terms of risks arising from indirect land use change. Mr Hagen pointed to ILUC, namely that the increased demand for biofuels has a greater impact on land use, whereas it is actually intended for food crops. Mr. Chairman. That palm oil is excluded is a good first step, but why do I not hear a word about the residues of palm oil, the so-called PFADs, the Palm Fatty Acid Distillates, the by-products? With this law, they become so important that, just as with the biomass combustion for energy generation, the substance becomes worse than the ailment. The cure is worse than the ailment. Does the Secretary of State share our concerns that palm oil can be converted into usable biofuel immediately? Also soya oil is not excluded in advance in this law. The Secretary of State says soy oil isn't going to be used. That is in line with the climate agreement. She's going back into that wretched path of covenants. Yesterday, for example, we saw that the agreement on reduced sugar consumption does not lead at all to a reduction in sugar consumption. If you look up the word "convenant" in the dictionary in fifteen to twenty years' time, I think you'll see word "ecocide" instead of "we've achieved something together for sustainability." In this way, however, the option remains to add soya oil; I therefore appreciate Mr Hagen who has tabled an amendment on this. We will support that. Mr. Chairman. Research shows that the use of food and fodder for biofuel on average emits more CO than the use of fossil fuel. And yet it is presented here as a more sustainable option. So we are talking about an increase in emissions, not a reduction. Is this legislation taking into account the external effects of the use of plant-based biofuel? The day before yesterday, a motion was adopted stating that you should also measure the emissions of biomass. Is the Secretary of State willing to do that for this law? I suppose so. Can it also promise that no form of woody biomass will be allowed for the use of biofuels? Finally, Mr President. My group would have liked this amendment to include a list of raw materials and materials that could be used for biofuel, so that we do not have to wait for a ministerial arrangement here. Can the Secretary of State undertake that such a ministerial arrangement will be discussed with that list of permitted fuels in the Chamber, perhaps by means of a suspension procedure? Then the Room can watch and she won't be surprised. If not, I will consider a motion on this point. Mr President, I am really closing up now. If one buys and eats a sandwich at a gas station, that makes sense, but it goes into the tank, that is totally not. That is why our call: food should not be in the tank! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	Food doesn't belong in the tank, okay? Then Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party Group. He has five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin, I would also like to congratulate colleagues Hagen and Bouchallichh. Two beautiful, personal stories, which also showed what was going on in a living room. I think we all know that Mrs Bouchallichh has had quite a lot on her mind. Let me tell you that you belong here more than you do and that you had a beautiful maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. In this country, we want to pass on all its splendour to our children. They deserve a viable planet that is not threatened by global warming. With the Climate Act and the signing of the Climate Agreement, there is a huge challenge for the mobility sector. The use of biofuels can play a temporary role in this, as long as it is truly sustainable. We know that sustainable biofuels are limited, so this requires careful consideration of how we use them. It is not for nothing that the Climate Agreement has agreed to develop a consistent framework for the use of biomass. That framework of the ESC is now in place. This calls for a re-evaluation of the role of biomass in the economy, encouraging high-quality applications, for example in the chemical industry, and reducing low-quality applications. A typical low-grade application called is incorporation in fuel for light road vehicles. However, for heavier transport, for which fewer alternatives are available, the ESC sees biofuels as a transition tool. I have a number of questions about this. How has the sustainability framework been included in the current legislative proposal and the underlying energy transport decision? Why is it that lighter vehicles are also being chosen for the extra use of biofuels, although the sustainability framework requires us to reduce this? I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the amount of biomaterials that we use with this bill, but also with the proposed obligation to mix in aviation, in proportion to the amount that we as the Netherlands can reasonably rely on. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to carry out an impact assessment to determine the level of the annual obligation, identifying the increase in demand for biosubstances? Let's stop throwing the food in our tanks. Biofuels made from food and forage produce deforestation and use of scarce land. It is good that this draft Energy Transport Decision sets the amount of conventional biofuels of 22 as a limit. However, with the current plans, commitment will remain possible until 2030. Why didn't they choose a phase-out? Are we gonna do the best we can? The percentages for this are set out in the Energy Transport Decision. Will the Court still have the opportunity to respond to this by means of a preliminary procedure? One of the options we have to make the mobility sector more sustainable is the use of green hydrogen. I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	Why don't you finish your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'm fine. Green hydrogen, especially for heavier transport. It is therefore important that this bill and the underlying decision also ensure that the green hydrogen market in traffic can develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	I welcome the critical sound of the Labour Party on biofuels, because biofuels........................................................................................................................................................... And it's competing with the food supply. It is only a pity that the PvdA Group in the European Parliament has just agreed and ensured the extra use of biofuels. So why am I hearing this noise from you now, when your colleagues in the European Parliament are cooperating in the obligation for the Netherlands to use more biofuel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	For the sake of clarity, Mr Madlener, the PvdA is not against the use of biofuel as an intermediate solution. That is the view of the European Union. But these intermediate solutions must be truly sustainable. So I am not thinking of food and fodder, which Mr Madlener also mentions. If this can be used properly and for heavier transport, such as lorries, for example green hydrogen, it is, in my view, efficient to use it as an intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	There's a lot of ifs coming up now, ifs and buts, but that's not reality. The reality is that biofuels today cause deforestation, fires in jungle forests and destruction of a lot of environments. You know that. Everyone knows that. You just have to look at Google and you see it. And it's growing all the time. The European Parliament is now forcing us to use this more. You say: yes, if it is sustainable, it must be possible. But it's not. So why don't you make tough demands and say no to all non-sustainable bio-oil?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	If Mr Madlener has listened carefully to my speech, he knows that I have put critical questions to the Secretary of State. I also called on her to look at the reduction of biofuels. At the same time, it is fair to say that they can still play a role in the interim solution of the transition. So that is my answer to Mr Madlener's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Mr Van Raan is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	The colleague calls it an interim solution. I have three questions about that. Does the honourable Member agree with me that this interim solution is coming because the industry has been dragging its feet for far too long? Does the honourable Member agree with me that this intermediate solution does indeed emit CO but that it is not measured according to an accounting trick of Europe? Does the honourable Member agree with the Animal Party that the list of permitted biofuels, derived from Annex 9a of the European directive, should be sent to the Chamber first in order to assess whether the Minister is making the correct translation of the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	I fully recognize point one. The last point is that I agree that it really has to go to the Chamber. In my contribution, I am also quite critical of this and see it as a concrete solution for the points where it is not large-scale and where you do not use food. I would also refer colleagues to my contribution just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	On point two: Mr De Hoop knows as well as anyone that biofuel emissions are not being measured now because of an accounting trick, while it is becoming increasingly clear that CO emissions are actually involved. We are also going to measure it thanks to a motion passed in this Chamber. If that is from that measurement, what is Mr De Hoop's position on that solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm looking at it very critically. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to look into it as part of an assessment. So I'm looking at it very critically. Let me just say that I recognise the problems that Mr Van Raan presents and that we, as a group, look very critically at them. With your permission, I will continue with my speech, Mr President. I was talking about the green hydrogen. We believe it is important that this bill and underlying decision also ensure that the market for green hydrogen in traffic can develop. I am getting signals that this is not quite the case with the current plans, for example because green hydrogen must necessarily come from new wind and solar parks. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Labour Party that we should stimulate innovation on green hydrogen in traffic and that the present bill plays an important role in this? Is it prepared to encourage the use of green hydrogen for vehicles for which this energy carrier is promising and to make the necessary adjustments to the Energy Transport Decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Then there is Mr Geurts from the CDA group, who has also cheered us up with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to join all the congratulations that have gone out to the people who made their maiden speech. It always gives a nice insight into the personal motivations of my colleagues. Today we are discussing European legislation to be implemented in national legislation. My experience shows that then the Chamber's scope is limited to fundamentally amend such a proposal. What I also saw was that much will be done with lower legislation and that today we are talking in particular about a legal framework. But that doesn't mean that the CDA Group wouldn't have any more questions about this bill. The Renewable Energy Directive aims to increase the use of energy from renewable sources in the gross final consumption of energy. That in itself is a noble endeavour. However, it must also be feasible for practice. From the field, I get several reports that the decisions associated with this bill can lead to greater problems. So this is not so much about the legal framework that is being discussed today, but it has a lot of coherence with it. For I understand that the Energy Transport Decision and the Energy Transport Regulation go further and are more restrictive than what the European Commission requires. An example of the concerns that came towards me is that green renewable hydrogen, made from energy from existing wind and solar parks, will not be eligible for the HBEs, the renewable fuel units. In addition, these should be delivered in the same year as the electrolysis plant. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. Is it true that this is only a Dutch choice and not an obligation under that European directive? Then why is this choice made by the government? Isn't this a de facto exclusion of renewable hydrogen? Is it also true that there are no HBEs, renewable fuel units, for green hydrogen if it is produced with green electrons subsidised by SDE++? Wouldn't this de facto exclude all awakening from sun and wind on land, so I wonder. That's why I'm going to put that question to the Secretary of State. I wonder why the government makes these choices. I'd like a response. After all, if it is not possible to obtain HBEs, it does not make sense for market players to make hydrogen out of renewable electricity, I think. If you could pull that line that way, that would give green hydrogen no chance on the market. I would also like a reflection from the Secretary of State on that, to take away my concerns on that point. Mr. Chairman. An important element in this legislation is the need to combat fraud. I understand that supervision may be extended. From the note on the report, I understand that the Secretary of State is committed at European level to extending public oversight. Can the Secretary of State indicate how public and private supervision will get hands and feet through this bill? Could the Secretary of State also explain this with a number of current examples? Mr. Chairman. In the note on the report, my group raised questions about the final level of the limit on food and fodder. My group asked whether the impact of the corona crisis would be taken into account. The Secretary of State wrote in the report that this would be known in mid-March. I haven't been able to find it anywhere, so I'm going to ask the Secretary of State: is this already known? How is this further taken into account and taken into account in the Energy Transport Decision? I'd like a comment on that, too. Mr. Chairman. Then one final point. I see that this bill does not have an overall assessment clause. That raised the question of whether it would not make sense to assess the impact of this bill and the decisions that come out of it, to which I referred earlier. You could do that after a year, but I don't think there's much to evaluate. I have therefore tabled an amendment with a three-year evaluation period. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to that. Finally, a question concerning the charging infrastructure for electric cars. I wonder how these renewable fuel units can help investments in charging stations, especially in SMEs and in households. In fact, if I have been properly informed, the current bill will only help out larger charging points, the so-called fast charging stations. That raises a number of questions for me. What is the government doing to encourage small charging points and to prevent unequal competition between SMEs and large companies in this respect? Loading points and parking garages at shops or taxi companies have little use for the proposed HBE, as they usually do not have charging posts with their own mains connection. We are already seeing this phenomenon in the existing exemption from charging posts for energy taxation. On this point, too, I would like to see a reflection of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. Your amendment has part No. 13. Then we will listen to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group. He looks a little scared, but it's really his turn. Here's what I'm talking about. We still have a few speakers to go in the first term. Then we have the congratulations, with flowers and so on. I almost wanted to say "kiss," but we shouldn't do that. Then I'm gonna suspend for lunch. Then we have all kinds of votes, including roll-call votes, which take a long time. So before we listen to the Secretary of State, it'll be a little later. Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for this booklet as well. First of all, congratulations to colleagues Hagen and Bouchallichh for their maiden speeches: straight from the heart, in this place and for everyone. Mr. Chairman. As good and as bad as that is going to be, we are trying to reduce greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, which has been a kind of base year for the climate for many years. When you look at the different sectors, you can see that it is slowly but surely moving in the right direction with the emissions and the generation of electricity in industry, in the built environment and in agriculture. Of course, we have to go to zero, we are far from there and it is not fast enough, but in those sectors of our economy we are taking steps. Mr. Chairman. However, one sector stands bravely or, rather, brutally. It doesn't come from its place and doesn't emit a gram of CO less compared to 1990. That is the mobility sector. Whatever we've done to antics, from stimulating the bike to subsidising sometimes very ugly hybrids, nothing helped. For example, the initial profit of "cleaner and more economical" was destroyed by "bigger and heavier." We used to be modest in a Panda, Starlet or Polo, these days they are all too often thick SUVs, with the result that the mobility sector makes our climate problem even greater daily than in 1990. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'm not saying it right. If you take aviation and maritime transport with you, which have grown considerably over the past few decades, then the CO emissions of the mobility sector will double again. Should the corona crisis have allowed us to hope that we would work more at home and emit less CO, then reports like "Storm walk on air holidays" have put us back in the boots in the last week when it comes to a rapid reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all of us moving restlessly. The good news is that this bill is trying to do something about that, although it would be much better if there were a European regulation that would make the new sale of fossil cars impossible in 2025 or 2030, for example. My question to the Secretary of State is what is really going on with the tightening up of the source policy and phasing out new sales of fossil bolides. I assume that, in the context of the Green Deal, there will be a concrete year on the table in Europe. I'd like a response. The bad news about this bill: what a gap we have created between theory and practice when it comes to sustainable mobility and the introduction of renewable fuels. When preparing for this debate, I was shocked by the accounting reality that exists with regard to the inclusion of renewable fuels, called HBEs. According to the inspection and the Dutch Emission Authority, fuel samples are being tampered with, which would contain far less biofuel than declared. If something like this happens in manure transports, we call it manure fraud. The need for better and more intensive monitoring is therefore evident. It is good to see that this bill extends the powers of the Dutch Emission Authority. Trust in companies is important, but we must never forget the ancient Dutch wisdom "the opportunity makes the thief." Mr. Chairman. There is a remarkable distinction between the extent to which biofuels are entered in the Energy for Transport Register, the REV, i.e. almost 100%, and the extent to which electricity is transferred, i.e. 47%. This is explained by the fact that the market for electric transport is much more small-scale. Vehicles are often charged at home or at work and it is a huge task for small suppliers of electricity to book all this in the REV. That is an administrative and financial threshold for them. Does the Secretary of State share the view that it should be possible to book electricity more easily? What measures does she intend to take in this regard? For the sake of certainty, I have tabled an amendment that will allow aggregated booking of electricity by means of a possibility so that in the future a level playing field can be created between biofuels and electricity and, at least as important, that investments in the much-needed charging infrastructure will be encouraged. In Germany, for example, this is very well arranged. Smaller parties may authorise a third party to enter electricity group by group in the register there. What does the Secretary of State think of this solution? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State and the Dutch Emission Authority have questioned the usefulness, necessity and feasibility of the new BKE system to be formed. That is why its introduction is rightly postponed. But there is a hook in the law to strike a royal decision. So we don't know what that's gonna look like as a room yet. That is why I have tabled an amendment which, by means of a suspension procedure, will allow the Chamber to assess whether the system is in good shape in due course. A no-brainer, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point that a number of colleagues have already talked about, namely to make the rainforest rise against the demand for fuel in a globalised world with too few good rules of play. Of course, that can only go wrong. In this sense, combining fossil fuels with biofuels is a challenge. Ultimately, a green future for mobility is one with as little biofuels as possible. Electrification, hydrogen, synthetic kerosene and above all a lot of bike and public transport must become natural. But for the time being, we still have a mobility system that is addicted to fossil fuels. Then mixing can be wise. Biofuel from local waste and waste streams is the best option, but that will not be enough. A rotational or pre-fertile crop as rape can complement and does not put pressure on local food production. In fact, the soil structure, biodiversity and air quality are all served by crop rotation as rape. However, attention must be paid to the scarce space that our planet offers, the need for food production and the importance of preserving forests and the production of biofuels. That must be done in a careful balance. I look kindly at the amendments tabled by several of my colleagues. Mr President, I will conclude my contribution in the first place with our beautiful inland waterway sector. Our skippers have to mix 14% of 0% in one go. They are concerned that this substantial blending rate will result in significantly higher fuel prices and that customers will thus switch to other modalities. These other sectors could grow more gradually and thus have less to do with a price jump. Does the Secretary of State recognise these concerns of inland waterway vessels and see the risk of substitution? How does she intend to prevent that? There are also concerns about the safety of ships. Some biofuels increase the risk of clogged filters and engine problems, especially when they are older, including pipes and fuel tanks. How does the Secretary of State view this? What possibilities is it prepared to offer inland waterway vessels to deal with this? With these questions about our beautiful inland waterway sector, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	I see that there is a question from Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u28	A good question about inland waterway transport. I'll go into that later, but what does that mean for the Christian Union? These are good questions, but could they also lead to simply not being maintained at the moment? Safety really has to be at the forefront. The inland waterway vessels that are simply not suitable for biodiesel cannot be obliged to throw biodiesel in because they would simply stop? We can't make that legally, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u29	I didn't ask this question for nothing. Good questions should lead to good answers. I look forward to it. If the risk of often older engines which suddenly have to be mixed up, with all the risks to safety, is not adequately tackled in the debate, then we should come back to that in the second period, perhaps together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Madlener of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom. It's not his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, Mr. Chairman, that maiden speech was about 15 years ago, I'm afraid. First of all, I would like to congratulate the new spokesmen. The enthusiasm radiates from it. They're proud and happy. Kitchen tables are made here in plenary. That is good to hear, but here before you is a bit cynical old parliamentarians, who had debates 13 years ago on biofuels, biofuels, with then Environment Minister Cramer. Those were intense debates. I quoted Mr Kofi Annan, who said that this is a crime against humanity, because it competes with food supplies and destroys jungle. Now, thirteen years later, after a lot of jungle destroyed, we all know that the global demand for soy and palm oil leads to the destruction of jungle in Indonesia, Brazil and so on. It is about a further increase in the blending of biofuels. A lot of jungle has been destroyed in those 13 years. We're all very sorry about that, but we're not doing anything about it. In fact, that is what Europe is maintaining. Europe has imported huge quantities of soya and palm oil. That has increased enormously, knowing what is happening. Today we have a directive to implement from the European Union that will further increase it across Europe. We have critical spokesmen here. Everyone can see the problem, but Mr De Hoop says: we are looking at it critically. But it's gonna happen. It has been going on for 13 years and this legislation is only making it worse. That phasing-out scenario of palm oil is actually a joke. If you look at the problem, you should say: we have to stop today. The Netherlands might do a little better than the rest of Europe with all its good intentions, but it will continue. We should go to Europe and say: we are now demanding an immediate stop to the mixing of biofuels. It is not good for the climate, if you already believe in it, and it is also not good for competition with food supplies for a lot of people who have less money to buy food. I regret to say that it is a somewhat cynical reaction to the way in which this Chamber deals with Brussels dictatorships again, which imposes this obligation on us. I don't think "we're looking critically at it" is enough. I ask the Secretary of State to write a letter to Brussels and say: we are not going to do this; we are going to push for a ban on biofuels. That would be my call. I hope that the Secretary of State will do so, but given the rest of the Chamber and the involvement of the political groups in the European Parliament, I have just looked at how the European Parliament voted on this huge obligation to mix biofuels. In fact, all the groups of all the new Members of Parliament are complicit in destroying the jungle and that makes me very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u32	A fervent argument. I am very pleased with that critical approach, including towards my group. I recognise that we need to look closely at biofuels. But how do you reconcile your party's attitude with the fact that you're talking about deforestation? Your party is one of the parties in this Parliament that is denying the whole climate crisis. Don't you find it special that you look at me while your own party denies the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u33	I'd appreciate it if you could all speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u34	Deforestation and climate are two different problems. You do not solve the climate problem, if you believe in it, by mixing biofuel, because it leads to deforestation and makes it even worse. I just did some google work again. You'll find it in five minutes, type it in numerous reports that say it's worse than fossil fuels. We know that. But accounting, in theory, is convenient. That's an attitude we shouldn't fall for. You're not gonna be a part of that, are you? You're a new MP. You say: we look critically at it. But it just goes on! We shouldn't look critical here, we should do something. I call on you, with your enthusiasm and your new energy, to change something in your party and to say to Brussels: we are not going to do this, because this is not good for the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u35	You also have the call to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u36	I must say that I really like what Mr Madlener is doing. I'm here to look at everything very critically. I've asked the Secretary of State some very serious questions. But then I expect you to use the Google within your party once to look at the whole climate crisis and to be critical of it, just as I am today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u37	You can count on it. We look very critical. As a spokesperson, I look very critically at what is happening and at scientific insights. I stood here 13 years ago with a lot of energy, just like you are now. I was pretty new back then, too. We have had fervent debates here about the consequences of all these biofuels. I can tell you that in 13 years, things have only gotten much worse. We are also guilty of all those fires in those jungles and all those cut-off forests. You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u38	You mean Mr De Hoop, too. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u39	I share Mr Madlener's analysis. It was 13 years ago and it's only getting worse. Right, once. I want to try to get rid of his cynicism, because that is not really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u40	If you can do that, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u41	Well, I'm actually inviting him to go through that analysis. The use of biofuels and deforestation actually increases inequality. It's actually a power struggle between north and south. This also triggers the huge immigration flows, which the PVV often talks about. Could this analysis, which we share, be a reason for Mr Madlener to be a little less cynical about foreigners coming here, as his party always says? Does he also see the connection with deforestation and the pressure on immigration rather than blaming immigrants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u42	I welcome Mr Van Raan's question. You have to look closely at the impact of all the policies and what we do here. Immigration is indeed a great concern for me. For me, mass immigration inevitably leads to the end of our peaceful society. I see that every day. The same applies to this too: it goes on and on. I do not think that the majority of Dutch people are waiting for this mass immigration either, and we do not want a million homes for immigrants, but it is happening, because the Dutchman has nothing to say. We get to vote once every four years and that's it. That is why we are in favour of the introduction of referendums. It would be very good if the Dutch had some say in this matter. But mass immigration is not a solution, not for our society, but also for the countries of origin. But, yes, those countries will have to do it themselves, because that is the reality. If you look at what's happening in those countries... Bringing everyone here is not a solution. I hope we can agree on that. But development cooperation has not always led to much good in these countries either. You see a lot of corruption. So I'm cynical about that. I'm afraid you haven't been able to remove that cynicism, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u43	However, I see a glimmer of hope for Mr Madlener, because for me this is at least the first time that Mr Madlener, as representative of a party that really excludes people from where they come from, is still linking them to the system problem and not to the people themselves. I call that profit. Mr Madlener may not see it yet, but I think he will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u44	That's nothing new. The system is the problem. We always look at the system or ideologies and not at people. For me, man is not born an ideological being. That's what you're made of, and you can give it up. So for me, every human being is a human being, but I'm afraid of ideology. We need to be vigilant about that. Ideology will lead to our demise. It's the ideologies that do it, not the people. At birth, everyone is just a child with all the opportunities it deserves. At least we agree on that. However, that does not yet lead to the removal of my cynicism, because it is the politics that determine it and the results speak for themselves. Unfortunately, therefore, we have to deal with an obligation to mix, which will only destroy more jungle. But it's good that we all know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Peter de Groot of the VVD group for his maiden speech, so let's have a good seat for that! He has requested 10 minutes' speaking time. The word, if it's disinfected, it's all up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The sustainability of transport and transport is a matter of taking sensible steps and taking a long time, because our system is almost entirely focused on the use of fossil fuels. It's been working on it for decades to get it that way. Then it'll take a while if we want it to be different. Not least because it will affect everyone: all residents, institutions and companies. Everyone needs time and space to adopt this and it needs to be sensible, affordable and manageable for everyone. The good news is we're on our way, but the road is still a long way. That is why we must take all the steps that contribute. There is not one way to achieve the ultimate goal of zero CO emissions by 2050. As far as the VVD is concerned, we take advantage of every opportunity we have. We also know that we need to set frameworks to make progress, such as today's amendment of the Environmental Management Act. Mr. Chairman. Before going into the law, I would like to add a personal note to this view. I was born into a building family in Harderwijk. A city where I still live with great pleasure. With the contractor company at home, entrepreneurship and hard work have been poured into me. In this building family we had to have nothing in the past of complicated environmental rules, expensive wood or a battery-powered forklift truck. In fact, we had a gasoline slurping 6-cylinder E300 Mercedes on Dam Square. Well, that's what I'm talking about. But that was a long time ago. But I certainly got one thing from that time: economical handling of stuff and materials. Wood, you took that apart. Nails out and voilà, you can use it again. Old stones were used in the foundation. Yeah, it was a bit of work, but in the end, re-use turned out to be just a profit. Because waste is sin and reuse is almost free. This logic must also apply to the use of biofuels. After high school, I had a strong need for learning. With technical administration I learned about the relationships between the government on the one hand and the market on the other hand, in large technical systems such as infrastructure or for example the energy network. How special was my graduation research during my studies in Delft, especially in the light of the sustainability statement. I did research into the world's oil reserves, particularly at the OPEC cartel. How life can walk. Fearing that fossil fuels are running out fast until 15 years later, the concern about how to get rid of them as quickly as possible. After completing my studies, I finally went back into the construction business. In that practice, it is hard work to achieve results. The focus on CO reduction and the sustainability of cars, buses and machines is certainly not self-evident. Call it conservatism, but I've seen it and I call it pragmatism. I've seen that, if there's any benefits to be gained, they're definitely gonna get caught. A nice parallel with biofuels can be drawn with, for example, the circular making of raw materials from demolished concrete for new concrete. When all the ingredients from demolition concrete are used directly, this is good for the environment and it is also cheaper, because raw materials do not need to be bought in. A win-win situation. That's the way it is with biofuels. Good for less emissions and good for entrepreneurial Netherlands. That belief in a win-win situation is my motivation to stand here in politics today, in the Chamber for years to come. To choose a realistic approach that works well and works well in practice, step by step, with the aim in mind. Change where necessary and with pragmatism and optimism continue to look at the challenges. Close to the people and the companies that make it happen. Not sketching black future scenarios, but making progress in working on this transition in society. Then there's ownership and a good feeling. My lesson from practice is that companies really need the frameworks, such as this law, to initiate and implement changes. And there lies the role for the government. The laws and regulations create an opportunity for self-fulfilling, which will increase acceptance and accelerate it. Then back to the bill. We need multiple paths to make transport more sustainable. Because the electric van or the electric piler is simply not there yet. It is precisely for these sectors that biofuel is an outcome to contribute to the existing equipment. Because once the costs are not higher and the quality is not lower than fossil fuels, we have removed a major barrier to the use and thus the sustainability of transport. Can the Secretary of State confirm that quality? Can she confirm that by mixing, no engine will run in the soup? Will she do everything in her power to prevent this? The use of biofuel as a transition fuel for the coming decades and its proposed extension in this law is a good choice in terms of the VVD. All the more so because the scaling-up of electric transport is very likely, but any scarcity of raw materials will help to determine that pace, as well as the development of hydrogen for heavy transport and industry. How nice is it to focus on raw materials for renewable fuels that we have left? Think of used baking and frying oil, waste waste streams or other raw materials that we simply know do not cause any further damage to land use, rather than restricting them very much already. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this. As a result, the VVD agrees with the line to reduce raw materials such as palm and soya oil to 0%. In addition, the plan is not to use more biofuels from food and fodder than the level of 2020. But is 2020 a realistic year to draw on? The VVD understands that agreements from the Climate Agreement cannot be ignored. But does the Secretary of State see other possibilities in this matter and is he still considering making use of the extra 1% from Europe? With all the ambitions to mix renewable fuels with fossil fuels in both road and inland waterway transport, and potential ambitions for maritime and aviation, the VVD does wonder how the State Secretary looks at the availability and control of sufficient raw materials. Are these raw materials sufficiently available? We don't want any more hoaxes with raw materials. Unfortunately, we now know the examples of fraud involving raw materials for biofuels. Unacceptable as far as the VVD is concerned. We are therefore in favour of strengthening supervision and expansion to the whole chain, as outlined at EU level. Can the Secretary of State undertake that there will be risk-driven supervision, that there will be national and international coordination between supervisors and that no additional criteria will be set in addition to EU legislation? In addition, the State Secretary states that he is not in favour of HBEs for maritime transport. It shall take other measures to control the use of biofuels in maritime transport. The VVD likes to see a better understanding of bets per final destination, so that they can also be better steered. Can the Secretary of State respond to the idea of having the NEa, the emission authority, regularly, for example once a quarter, report on the use of renewable energy per final destination? How does it view the quarterly booking of renewable energy in maritime transport in this light? Finally, a practical question. When can the Chamber expect the Decision on energy transport? Can the Secretary of State ensure that this decision receives the attention it deserves and that it can therefore be adequately dealt with by the Chamber? Mr President, I will conclude. Mobility is important for our society, including the sustainability of our future. This law is a framework for this. The proper regulation of the Energy Transport Decision is important to make it work in practice. But it's gonna work. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u48	A well-deserved ruffle. It is my honor and pleasure to be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I'm just trying to get that Mercedes in my head. Mr. Van Raan would have loved to interrupt you on that, so you'll get away with it. Once again, at the end of the first term, we are doing the congratulations. However, there is a slight change in the railway: after the congratulations we do lunch, followed by a... don't ask me why.. short arrangement of work. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State and then we're gonna vote. The agenda has therefore been slightly modified. We have two more speakers to speak on the side of the Chamber. Here is Mr Bishop of the political group of the Reformed Party itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by congratulating the three colleagues who made their maiden speech: Mrs Hagen, Mrs Bouchallichh and Mr De Groot. Nice personal stories. As a grandfather I immediately get the creeps to tell something personal, because we are sitting here together so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u50	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u51	But my speaking time is running. I thought congratulations were always out of the question. I'm gonna get started on my lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'll give you an extra minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u53	I don't want to say that you're too good for this job, but I appreciate your gesture. Mr. Chairman. As an agricultural spokesperson, I am very pleased to hear my colleagues so strongly arguing, passionately pleading, especially not to use these valuable food and fodder for the fuel tank. In my opinion, we are far too little aware that food security is also a crucial issue in 2021. We shouldn't be too reckless about that. It's gonna take permanent attention. Mr. Chairman. When assessing the legislative proposal before us, I also look at the plans for the underlying Energy Transport Decision. There is a great deal of tension, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been pointed out, between the growing demand for biofuels as a result of the obligation to mix and the available supply. Only 8% come from the Netherlands. More than half come from China and other non-European countries. I agree with those who have raised the question as to whether we are not making a far too great claim on biofuels available in Europe and internationally. The cabinet is not only talking about the associated ambitions for road traffic but also those for ships and aircraft. Doesn't demand exceed sustainable supply? The Nature & Environment Foundation estimates that in 2030 approximately 50 petajoules of biofuels are available for the Netherlands, assuming that other countries also need biofuels. How does the Secretary of State appreciate this assessment? The Dutch ambition is about twice as high, which is almost 100 petajoule. In any case, it means a great deal of pressure on the market, with associated risks of fraud and sustainability. Why does the Secretary of State direct a rate of 27% in 2030, while the European Commission does not go beyond a minimum of 7% to 14%? I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the availability of the quantities added is taken into account in any case. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. I have two additional questions on this point. Would it not be wise, for example, to ask the Dutch Emission Authority to include in its annual reports the development of biofuels supply? I have a second question. The Secretary of State sends at a rate of incorporation. If the total volume is suddenly higher than expected and more biofuel needs to be mixed, availability may be compromised. Is it not safer to steer on absolute quantities, as is done in the Climate Agreement? The Inspection Environment and Transport and others have previously pointed out the major fraud risks associated with the certification of sustainable biodiesel. It's pretty simple. I don't know if they eat chips in China, but if you eat a fry there and drop one in a tank of palm oil, you can certify it as used baking oil and sustainable biofuel, and you can market it as such. How will the Secretary of State prevent and address such fraud risks? This requires a lot of enforcement, also because it is clearly a large international chain. Mr. Chairman. Biofuel and biofuel is two. If palm and soya cultivation for biofuels at the bottom of the line increases CO emissions, then we are just not doing very well. The Climate Agreement agreed that palm oil and soya oil should not be used as biofuels. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there is a net increase in soy oil rather than a reduction in CO emissions? Why is the Secretary of State hiding behind the European Commission and does it only want to reduce the use of palm oil? The SGP wants food and fodder to be used in high quality. They are not intended to disappear into the fuel tank for low-grade use. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another bottleneck: the definition of the residue by-product. Waste products as residues do not fall below the ceiling of biofuels from food crops. By-products that are commercially just interesting are covered. The big question is how to distinguish and define the categories of residue and by-product. I understand this is not clear yet. When will this clarity come to light? Can an implementation test be carried out by the Emission Authority on this point? A sharp enforceable definition is absolutely necessary to limit fraud and sustainability risks, and also to be able to carry out your task as a reliable government. Mr. Chairman. I should also like to touch on the issue of inland waterway transport. I am largely in agreement with what Mr Grinwis, a colleague of the Christian Union, has said. I am particularly concerned about the fact that, as a newcomer, inland waterway transport is suddenly to be subject to the generic obligation of 16%. That's a big step with big price risks. I ask the Secretary of State to choose a separate, slower and more natural structure for inland waterway transport. What possibilities does she see for this? The risks to ship engines that are not built on that fuel are indeed too great. TNO has actually carried out limited research into certain aspects of this. The question to the Secretary of State is whether she is prepared to have additional research carried out. Is it also prepared to include quality criteria for marine biofuels? Trade in marine fuels is so fragmented that skippers do not control it. In Belgium and Germany inland waterway transport is not covered by the obligation to mix. How does the Secretary of State weigh the risk of skippers bunkering in those countries? Mr. Chairman. In view of the time, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u54	Very good. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Alkaya of the SP Group. Then we turn the plenary room into a reception room and we go, almost massively, to congratulate. Then we'll also suspend for lunch. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on my behalf, too, to the members of the Chamber for their maiden speech. All three had personal stories and personal experiences, which are of course valuable in the debate here in the Chamber. I look forward to crossing ideological swords with all three of you. Mr. Chairman. We are on slippery ice today. It is difficult to debate the substance of the matter if we do not agree on the meaning of words. Because what does "sustainable" mean? What does "renewable" mean? It seems to have a positive load for all parties that take global warming seriously. The same goes for my party, the SP. The directive that encourages the use of energy from renewable sources therefore sounds good in the first instance, but in this case it is really not a good thing. Burning food in engines is not a good thing. That is not sustainable and not renewable. Worldwide demand for food is increasing because the population is increasing. Things like soya, palm oil, rape, sugar cane and maize are all crops that you can use in food, but also in biofuel. So it's competing with each other. It competes for limited agricultural land. Many groups have already addressed this. That is why biofuel is not really sustainable and not really renewable. It's not like you're gonna get your jungle cut back. My group therefore has serious objections to this directive and to the implementing law, unless it is only about secondary biofuels, which are not made from food but are extracted from waste. But that is not what the directive and the implementing law do. I am therefore curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Raan, who would like to take care of this. It is a far-reaching amendment, but it is highly likely that it will receive the support of our group, because it would, of course, be a huge improvement in the law. At the moment, it says that only the use of palm oil as biofuel is reduced to 0%, but the limit on all food and fodder should be set at 0%. My question to the Secretary of State is why the government has not chosen this. The least we can do is to legally anchor the use of soya at least to 0%. And I expect that the D66 amendment will also achieve it with broad support, but that will not be enough. There is a baby step in the right direction, but there are so many other problems. We are also concerned that, in response to consultations with companies, the government says that the probability of a biofuel being excluded in the future in lower legislation is very small. So we have to settle it now, before we agree to this law, if we want to. In the future, as the government says, there is very little chance that anything will change. Mr. Chairman. It would be bad enough if we had biofuels in the Netherlands to drive out food production, but it is even worse. In the Netherlands there is not enough room for that kind of crops. Even now, most of it comes from abroad. And when demand increases, either agricultural land is expelled abroad, or it causes deforestation. Then forests are cut down to grow crops that are then transported halfway across the world to be burned here by our cars, ships and planes. That is not wise, I ask the government. Could these environmental impacts be weighed in their entirety? I've heard several things about the way of measuring and the models. My question to the Secretary of State is: does she share the concerns about this? Does she have faith in the measurements? Does it ensure that these measurements are improved? If in the future it appears that crops have a negative impact on climate warming and on the environment, how will they be dealt with? If we are honest with each other, then it is already obvious for soy, but probably it is true for much more biofuels. At least I think it would be wise to take the availability into account. So I think it would be wise to support Mr Bishop's amendment at least. Mr. Chairman. More fundamentally, my objection is that this directive will give the fossil industry more time to refrain from real sustainability, for example the transition to green hydrogen. How does the government look at this inherent perverse incentive for the fossil industry? This is certainly true if polluting companies also receive so-called marketable greenhouse reduction units, the added value of which is very limited, but the implementation is very complex. It's a kind of derivatives trade with allowances with a green label on it. How does the government respond to the strong criticism of, among others, the Council of State, the Advisory Board on Control Pressure and the Dutch Emission Authority on this complex free trade system with these units? Finally, Mr President. Inland waterway transport is also covered by this Directive. There are serious concerns about this too. Is it true that other Member States have excluded inland waterway transport from the obligation to mix biofuels? Which countries are they? Are we really crazy Henkie in Europe that lets inland waterways in? Then why do we do that? What countries are doing it and which countries are excluding inland waterway transport? Is it true that the environmental advantage is low or even negative in inland waterway transport because biodiesel is less economical in certain ships than ordinary diesel, which results in an increase in fuel consumption? In addition, the use of biodiesel would increase nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions. Of course, that's bad for the environment. We shouldn't want that. The addition of fat and animal fat would also be bad for the engines of certain older ships. In the worst case scenario, this leads to engine failure, in the middle of the water with cargo and all. This can not only cause financial damage, but also endanger the environment. How does the government view this? Can the government address all these concerns of skippers in inland navigation? Can the Government promise that this directive will not be enforced in inland waterway transport until the quality of biodiesel is guaranteed? That is not the case at the moment. By quality, I mean that it must be safe, sustainable and suitable for inland waterway vessels. I am considering a motion on this point if the government does not take this seriously. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u56	They've been warned. There is already a political secretary ready with a bunch of flowers, but first there is an interruption by Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u57	This is a parliament, so I thought you should be able to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u58	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u59	This is a very important subject. The impact of the European use of biofuels is enormous throughout the world. Fortunately, we all agree on that. Mr Alkaya has kept a critical story, but I am so curious to see what the SP story is in the European Parliament. You point out all the dangers and objections here, but it is an implementation of a European directive. The SP was able to vote on this in Brussels. Then what did the SP do there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u60	We have recently been relieved of the burden of the European Parliament. We're not in that anymore. But the group in which we were sitting, GUE/NGL, voted against, I was told. But the SP is no longer in the European Parliament. We can therefore vote in full freedom in the Dutch Parliament, which is, of course, good for national democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u61	Yes, but when this directive was adopted, you were still in it. I think your delegation simply agreed to that. But I'll check it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u62	We were in GUE/NGL, not the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u64	Among other things, with the environmental movement and so on. I was told that people were very critical at the time and that they voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u65	I'm gonna go check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u66	Well, we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u67	A nice cliffhanger that we need for a moment to keep the ratings high. I would like to thank Mr Alkaya very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'm going to suspend until 1:15 p.m. Then we have a brief arrangement of work. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. For now, bark is for congratulations and lunch. I invite the three party pigs to come forward and the lead to put them somewhere so that it's all going to go beautifully. The Secretary of State will be the first to congratulate; that is a great honour. Besides, she's busy answering all the questions.
