ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the follow-up to the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66. I would ask Members to keep the interruptions a little shorter, because we still have quite a lot of speakers. It must be a free debate. Everyone has to be able to say something, but they like shorter and more concise interruptions. I call Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. These are special General Political Considerations today; it appears so far. Most of the time we stand here as coalition parties to support the policy of the cabinet and the opposition criticises it. But today we are holding the debate with a outgoing cabinet. As far as I can tell, this is the first time in our parliamentary history. We do that while this cabinet is now triple-demissionary. In January, the entire cabinet resigned as a result of the supplementing affair. The documentary Only against the state shows painfully how the government has left parents completely isolated, ruined, humiliated and without any way out. People's confidence in their own government and therefore in us as politicians is almost irreparably damaged. Then there were elections in March, with profound consequences for the political landscape. Last week, a majority of this Chamber judged and rejected the entire cabinet's actions as irresponsible. We cannot expect such a triple deportation cabinet to come up with all kinds of new plans and proposals. This Chamber would rightly not accept that either. The democratic legitimacy of this cabinet is very limited. I therefore understand the relatively poor budget. I would have preferred, and I think many with me, to have looked at a new and fresh cabinet here today, which could have been working on the great challenges of this time, even in 2022. My group wants to make a constructive contribution in any role. There is a great deal of D66 about not making 2022 a lost year. The plans presented by this cabinet yesterday can still be changed by a new cabinet or, if not in time, by this Chamber. That is why I also appreciate the hand-out made by Mr Hermans of the VVD to the constructive parties in the middle to see if we can come together to make adjustments to this budget. Hopefully this will lead to an agreement on the 2022 budget. Maybe it tastes like more. A stable and broad coalition of parties, who together are willing to make business agreements to effectively govern the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'll see if you're done with your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	That's me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	Then Mrs Ploumen, then Mr Klaver and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	After Mr Jetten's introduction, I think I'll get the cow by the horns right away. In one of the interruptions before the break, Mr Jetten spoke about the pay gap between teachers in primary education, primary education and secondary education. He has great concerns about this, because this also leads to a shortage of teachers. This leads to inequality of opportunity for children. Of course, we all, at least he and I, are very concerned about that. It's a good thing he sees it that way. It takes money to close that pay gap. The outgoing cabinet has a poor budget. Now is the time to free up the money for that. I wonder how much financial space Mr Jetten sees for that. He also mentioned the 'billion of Hermans', if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	I see Mrs Hermans giving me a scare. So far, when it comes to content, the debate has dealt with a great deal of landlord tax. That is an important subject, because we all want to build more houses and we want affordable rental and buying houses. I am going to deal with a number of other substantive issues myself in a moment. I will dwell for a long time on education in a broader sense, but also on the climate crisis, for example. In the next two days, but as far as I am concerned, when we deal with all the budgets, we will have to see if we can do more with each other. What space do I see? I think it is very commendable that the VVD itself has proposed to see if the BIK money can be used differently. Yesterday I also heard the Minister of Finance tell me how great the Dutch economy is and how well the treasury is doing. I have all kinds of other proposals for cover myself, and I think many other parties too. We can talk about this these days, but as far as I'm concerned, we can talk about it in the next few weeks, to see if we can solve, among other things, that pay gap. Mrs Ploumen, like me, knows that the gap between primary and secondary education is about 900 million if you wanted to solve it at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	That is indeed the amount. I wanted to know... that billion that Mrs Hermans was talking about sounds like a lot. I mean, we don't have it. I don't have it. But in the light of the total budget of hundreds of billions, that is a relatively limited amount, which indeed does not solve this problem of closing the pay gap. I read in the D66 election programme that they are in favour of taking all kinds of measures against tax avoidance. We could, for example, finance that. Is that a solution that Mr Jetten sees for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	When I think of D66's ambitions for this budget, but above all for the cabinet formation, the approach to tax avoidance always occurs in my states of what you could do to free up more money to invest in society. The search we have with each other over the next few days is to see where the landing ground lies of themes that we all want solved. What can you arrange with each other during the APB and what can you possibly do at a later date when we deal with the budgets or when the cabinet formation is completed? I expect substantial changes to this budget even after the formation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	If that day dawned, "after the cabinet formation," there'd be a cabinet, but we're not there yet. I conclude that Mr Jetten and I share the view that something should be done about the pay gap, that it should be closed. I also heard Mr Jetten look for room outside Hermans' billion, on that very large, large budget, to close that pay gap. I think that is encouraging and I can imagine that we are going to make concrete proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	This sounds like excellent news. Firstly, it seems that we can take steps this week to abolish the landlord's tax. Now I also see the space to talk to each other about solving the problems in education, for example because of the pay gap between p.o. and vo solve. My question is this, to understand where D66 and the other coalition parties stand. Are they still bound by coalition agreements, by an expenditure and revenue framework and by the current budget, or can the D66 Group simply vote in the way the D66 Group wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	In this debate, Mr Klaver calls us a coalition party on one occasion and not on the other. I get a little confused myself sometimes. The outgoing cabinet has produced a poor budget and I have just said: more than rightly so. So that also offers room to add to that poor budget at some point. The search with each other is how to make that cake as big as possible. How can you actually solve as many problems as possible in 2022? So not half solutions, but really solve well at once. That is also important because the parties who are hopefully going to reach an agreement on government will also want to adapt a great deal in the budget. That is why I also said: if this does not happen at the end of the formation because there is no government agreement, then it is also up to the Chamber, before we adopt all these budgets, to make any other changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	I understand that, but the question I am asking is relevant because, on the one hand, Mr Jetten and all the coalition parties say: we are no longer coalition parties. But on the other hand, I hear Mr Jetten asking where we could find landing land with each other. That's what the VVD said. In her speech, Mrs Hermans said that there are also issues that we may not agree on. That's why you're gonna negotiate in formation. Then you'll find that you may not agree with each other everywhere. Then you put water on the wine and come to compromises. Now we are here in the House of Representatives, because there is a refusal to negotiate. Then it's a matter of finding majorities. For example, there is a majority to abolish the landlord's tax. A majority also wants to ensure that the people in primary education earn as much as the people in secondary education, if you can just vote as you would like. That is the background to my question. Are there any agreements within the old coalition on how to vote on these political considerations at a later date, or is the D66 Group completely free to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'm just gonna keep it to myself. Then colleagues can also answer how they themselves look at it. As I have just said, this is a poor budget for policy. It is high time to form a new cabinet, so that you can find real solutions for 2022 and beyond on all these big themes. If that does not happen, then it is also up to this Chamber to see if we want to adjust these budgets. What I find very useful about how this debate has been going on so far is that we are actually exchanging ideas in a very open, rather pleasant atmosphere. The three of us are talking about the pay gap between p.o. and vo. I have just heard Mrs Hermans and Mr Van der Staaij talk about the major delays in the defence sector. Mr Heerma said that the landlord levy is one thing, but the housing market needs more. I am using it today to listen to your input and to see what different ideas exist. Hopefully then we will see opportunities together for a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	It's not a very direct answer to my question. But between the lines, I think I hear that there is just a lot of room for at least the D66 Group, just to vote for what is in the election programme. That's really very hopeful these days. Then we can talk about the landlord levy, about education, but also about tackling climate change, to take additional steps. I would like to say the following to Mr Jetten. Yes, the budgetary season is still a long one. We are not going to vote on these budgets until December. Let us not dwell on all the proposals that are there for this Prince's Day. But it is important to take real steps forward in these political reflections. I think that closing the pay gap between p.o. and vo is absolutely part of that, and I hope that we can take that step on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr Jetten just spoke about a poor budget. I thought, "Do I hear it right?" Have I read the same budget? In my view, I see EUR 7 billion for climate in the cabinet budget. The only thing that becomes politically poor from this budget is the people at home. You'll only have one pension that hasn't been indexed for ten or fifteen years. You won't be able to pay your energy bill or your rent anymore. It'll make your arm. The budget is not poor in policy, because you are spending EUR 7 billion on climate. Where are the EUR 7 billion for pensioners, for those who are no longer able to pay their rents, for those who are no longer able to pay their own risk in healthcare? Where are those billions for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u19	The cabinet then resigned, indicated that it would consider itself missionary on a number of points. I refer to the approach to the corona crisis, and I refer to the implementation of the solution for the parents affected by the premium affair. And I call execution of court rulings around Urgenda and nitrogen. It also makes sense, because I want to live in a country in which the government also adheres to the rule of law. That 7 billion for climate is precisely in the interest of many Dutch people. Because that money is spent on isolating homes. The gas price is rising. The very best thing we can do now for people's wallets is to isolate houses better, so that the residents have to pay less to their energy company every month. Part of the 7 billion is intended to help large companies in the Netherlands to make more sustainable so that companies do not move away. This allows Tata and other large companies, for example in the Rotterdam region, to become more sustainable. In this way, there is also employment in the Netherlands. So it's a very sensible choice for the cabinet to use it. It is not enough for the climate, but it is absolutely necessary, especially for the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u20	This is just alien paternalism. You must not push people into subsidies, but you must give people their money so that they can decide what they want to do. Give those people 7 billion back and let them decide: am I going to pay the bills, or do I want to do something about sustainability of my home? That's liberal. You are not liberal, because you say: you must and will use this subsidy because we have no alternative for you. I say that you deny not only the freedom of choice of the people themselves, but also the great problems that many people have. You'll only be an older one in the 70s, maybe in the 80s, with a small pension. This pension has not been linked to wages for many years, to inflation. With an expensive word it is called: it is no longer indexed. You'll just be someone with an income below average who can't afford his rent and his energy bill anymore. That energy bill is going up by hundreds of euros this year, in the short term. That's what's happening now. So not in three years, but now these people can't pay the bill anymore. Why don't you say: I'm not giving that money to climate subsidies, but to the people themselves, so that they can live off their pensions and pay their bills, or even if they don't need it, so that they can decide for themselves what to do with that money? One might give that to the climate, if you're a D66, and the other does something different with that. Isn't that how liberals deal with government and taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u21	I believe in a government that allows people to earn money and in the fact that work must pay, but I also believe in a government that helps to solve major problems. The climate is one of them. It is precisely because of this rising energy bill that it is very wise to spend money on isolating homes. You know, like me, that a lot of people aren't able to handle their own house because they're renting a corporation or someone else's. The most striking example is as follows. A while ago I went to work with Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks in Breda, in a "bad" district, as we call it, with many corporate homes. We were there visiting a lady in her 70s. Her apartment was first handled as a model house. She told us that she was very fond of it: construction workers on the floor for weeks to replace, isolate and remove the old, trusted gas set. She was very excited, but by now the lady is the biggest advocate in the whole district for everyone to participate in that isolation program. Why? She didn't have a drafty apartment anymore. So she could sit better on the couch. She had a much lower energy bill, because there was finally insulation glass in her apartment. And she was very pleased with the fact that she had boiling the water faster with an induction hob. Due to the disappearance of the gas boiler, she also had extra closet space. That's what it's about: helping people in vulnerable positions to make their home more sustainable first, so that the green transition is also a social transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u22	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u23	You can go to work with GroenLinks every week and look at induction hotplates, but that's not what I mean. I'm talking about the people who can't pay their rent tomorrow and can't pay their energy bill tomorrow, so not in three years, but now. I'm talking about the people who can't afford their health insurance right now. I say to you, I conclude that this cabinet, your outgoing cabinet, and also your party that literally leaves people in the cold and that you give 7 billion to the climate, on which the Netherlands has a very limited influence. The Earth has become 1 degree warmer since 1860. Man has a 4% to 5% influence on this and the Netherlands has a 0.35% share in the growth of CO emissions. If we close a coal power station here, 600 will be added in China. That's an ideological thing you're aiming for. That is allowed; for that we are different parties. I don't make that choice; you make it. But the ordinary people, who have had nothing to do with that and who have just been on the zero line for years, again, you'll just be that retired or the one who can't pay the rent. The budget is not politically poor. You're making people politically poor. That's a wrong choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u24	No, we're just helping people down their energy bill. I would also like to invite Mr Wilders to take a look at the Grandparents for the Climate, who regularly stand here in front of the House of Representatives. These are elderly people who are concerned about the future of this world and who want their children and grandchildren to be able to live on a viable planet. That's why we're investing in the climate approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u25	It is indeed very important to invest in the climate approach and to ensure that houses are preserved. They do the same in other countries in Europe. That's what they do with the money from the corona recovery fund. I have already asked Mrs Hermans about this. There is 5.8 billion there, also for the Netherlands. From the Netherlands, however, there is no plan yet; no plans have yet been sent to Brussels. I ask Mr Jetten if he is prepared to submit these plans so that we can speed up this sustainability and invest in energy, but on the other hand we can also ensure that we invest in education and technological innovation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u26	I thought it was a very good question just now from Mr Dassen, I think to Mr Hermans, because it is a huge missed opportunity that the Netherlands has not yet submitted proposals to the European Commission. I have looked at some of those plans from other EU Member States and I am truly pleased with them. Countries are undertaking a number of important reforms and are receiving billions from Brussels to invest in education and research and in the cultural sector, which has been hard hit by the corona pandemic, but also to invest in accelerating sustainability. This cabinet has fought hard for those strict rules surrounding the corona support package from Brussels. There is now. Then let's use it ourselves, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u27	That's very good to hear. I would like to talk to Mr Jetten about how we are going to implement this, so that we can order the cabinet to set this in motion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you. Mr Jetten continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. I come to my first substantive theme: education. There's a big agenda waiting for the next cabinet. First of all, I'm thinking about this growing inequality in people's chances. Unequal opportunities are missed opportunities. They are missed opportunities for any child who has talents, but not the ability to develop those talents. They are missed opportunities for our society, because if people do not get the chance to get the best out of themselves, that leads to individual inequality of opportunity and, above all, collective impoverishment. Good education is the main driver of equal opportunities, but that engine is failing. In the Millions note there is a confrontational picture. It shows that Dutch students read and calculate worse than 15 years ago. Teachers do a part, with conviction and craftsmanship, every day. But politics does not allow teachers to do what they are good at, namely to give every child the attention it deserves, while we depend on well-educated people for our prosperity now and in the future. There is therefore a need for substantial investment in education, research and science. As far as D66 is concerned, investments should focus in particular on patience with children, free childcare, a broad junior level, appreciation for higher-wage teachers and the resolution of the shortage of teachers as soon as possible. This lack of teachers is particularly true in the places where good teachers are most needed. A better reward is essential for this. But I also mean that teachers don't have to fill out forms too late to justify what they're doing. The much-needed extra money should end up where it belongs: in the classroom. Outside the classroom there must be extra time for homework, sports and culture. We need to put aside the sense of return in higher education, so that students can do what they want again freely: study. In the document that the VVD and D66 wrote together this summer, we have bridged the differences between our parties and highlighted these great ambitions for education and science. A next cabinet will have to work on that, rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u30	Let me see if you've had the block of education. I'm afraid to say the word "block" anymore. Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr Jetten called for better education. That is an important theme for his party. We also know that D66 does not miss an opportunity to emphasise how important it is that there is no discrimination in this society. Hence my question: why did D66 vote against the Kuzu motion not to discriminate in education on the basis of vaccination or test status? If it is important that all children can receive good education in the Netherlands, do not discriminate against the children and do not refuse children on the basis of test or vaccination status.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u32	I honestly do not know the motion, so it does not make much sense to respond now. Let me say, however, that I think that we have for too long forgotten the importance of children, young people and students in dealing with the corona pandemic. In the beginning we focused very much on vulnerable people, people with poor and fragile health. And that, of course, is understandable. But we have left children, young people and students at home for almost a year, which has made education worse. We must therefore ensure that we have good agreements and measures and, fortunately, we are now able to ensure that as many children as possible and as many students as possible can receive physical education and the attention and tailor-made work they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u33	So that's not exactly the point I'm making. It is not a general point about the need for tailor-made teaching. Of course, there has to be customization in education. That's beautiful. Every child is different. But your party may want to refuse children access to education, because they have not taken those experimental injections, for whatever reason. How can you defend that? First of all, corona is totally harmless to children. Secondly, in this way you discriminate against a whole group of children and a whole group of young people in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u34	I honestly don't know where to start. "Experimental injections," "corona is not dangerous": what is this nonsense? Over the past year and a half, we've seen how the hospitals got overcrowded, how the ICUs got overcrowded, and how people in nursing homes died before because we didn't properly protect them from corona. We all know very well that by testing and vaccinating as much as possible we can slow down the pandemic, so that people with vulnerable health can also participate in this society. So as for "experimental injections" et cetera, go away, Mr. Baudet. It doesn't make sense to say things like that around here, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u35	So the answer is that you find such discrimination justified because of certain ideas about public health. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u36	Once again, I do not know what Mr Baudet is talking about. I can't say anything else about that right now, because that doesn't make much sense. I would also ask him to stick to the facts when it comes to the corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u37	You will continue your speech. The interruptions are in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about education. Where the inequality of opportunity is also very acute at the moment, we have already discussed this in detail in the search for an affordable house. House and rental prices continue to rise extremely rapidly. That's checkout for homeowners and house milkers, but it's a tragedy for people, especially young people and starters, who are looking for a home or want to rent one. Building more houses is necessary, at a rapid rate. The fact that the cabinet will be paying extra money for this next year is therefore only right. But building more isn't the only thing that needs to happen. We will have to open up new neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods with the construction of stations and with public transport. We will have to look at everything related to taxes, such as the landlord tax, the mortgage interest deduction, the tax-free jubelton for wealthy parents and the property tax. We will have to break the unequal power of house milkers, for example by maximizing the income requirements for tenants. The OECD, the IMF, the CPB and De Nederlandsche Bank, all experts, advocate a combination of these kinds of radical adjustments in order to meet the promise of a good and affordable home for all. Only political parties with three letters in their name are still opposed, but their resistance is also unsustainable. Because if people can't live at an affordable price, the sacred houses in The Hague must be overthrown. Mr. Chairman. Today, because of the triple outgoing cabinet, it is almost impossible to shape general considerations, but also in this situation there is a need for specific reflections. As far as I am concerned, these should be about the climate and nature crisis. The debates on the sustainability of public debt make no sense without clearing our climate debt. Those who do not want to believe science could see it with their own eyes this summer. 700 Valkenburg families are displaced. The damage to the city is estimated at 400 million and I haven't even mentioned the rest of South Limburg. In Germany 190 deaths were recorded and the damage amounted to 30 billion. From France to Greece nature was set on fire by all the burning heat. More than 1 million people are threatened by hunger on the island of Madagascar, devastated by drought. And in the Caribbean, also the Dutch part, hurricanes have an increasing impact on society. The Netherlands now has a special responsibility to take the lead and to turn the tide, perhaps not necessarily because of the size of our country. I say to the Wilders because for every Dutchman in the world there are 453 non-Dutch people, but because of our environmental impression. Because a Dutchman emits three times as much as the average world citizen, because of our prosperity, our knowledge and the danger of our low location. The question isn't if we can do it, but if we want to. In this respect, the European Union is on the way to proving its added value. The impact of nearly half a billion Europeans is covered by rules, taxes and subsidies in high-speed rail transport. It is also encouraging that the Prime Minister wants to become an Olympic champion of climate action even within our Union. This same Olympic ambition will hopefully follow the theme of 'biodiversity'. I say to the Prime Minister, "Olympic champion, you're not gonna be lying on the couch in front of the tube." You have to get up early and get to work. Before you can participate in the Games at all, you have to qualify with top performances at national championships. Because it's all not without obligation, it's a duty. We also see this in our own country, where people stand up for their interests and get their rights. The polluting act of one leads to demonstrable damage from the other. Fortunately, we have a rule of law in which, as a citizen, you do not simply have to accept the damage you suffer from someone else. The dragging nitrogen file and the Urgenda assignment are important examples. The cabinet has now taken a step-by-step approach, but this approach is insufficient. Billions of investments in Rotterdam are missed because of still too high nitrogen emissions. Nature is in danger and therefore too few houses are being built for people who are therefore jumping. So whatever cabinet comes up, it needs to be more, faster and better. But also this outgoing cabinet cannot be relieved of the duty to do everything necessary to achieve the climate goals and the Urgenda goal. Because why not take all the necessary measures now? Pull off the patch at once instead of slowly lubricating the pain. Because it's not up to the ideas and possibilities. We could close another coal power plant in the near future. We can see if we can scale waste incineration plants faster. Because the longer we wait, the more unsafe it becomes in our country, and the more taxpayers' money we will have to squander on periodic penalty payments and expensive last-minute interventions in the future, and the more irreparable damage to our nature and biodiversity there will be. If you already know all that, why are you stalling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u39	There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party, then Mrs Van der Plas and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u40	I was hoping for a warm and glowing speech by Mr Jetten on the need to tackle the climate crisis. He doesn't disappoint. What is disappointing, of course, is the outgoing cabinet, in which his party is still present. We must note that the Urgendavonnis is not being respected, with D66 executives in the cabinet, and that this outgoing cabinet simply exists to say: we are simply not going to get that 1.5 degree anymore. Then I am talking about the objective of Paris: to do everything possible to stay below that 1.5 degree. Then they do make a little nice decoration with the nearly 7 billion for climate action. If you spend that well, that's good, but it looks like it can and will be used for underground storage of CO, which simply means that the Dutch taxpayer is allowed to solve Shell's pollution. So I was wondering how Mr Jetten and the D66 Group are looking at that. I hope, of course, to hear that if the budget stays that way, we will not be able to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u41	I would like to use the half-full approach here, unlike Mrs Ouwehand. We've done some very important things in the last Chamber. A Climate Act has been introduced, in which we have included the goals of Paris in the Dutch law. A comprehensive climate agreement has been reached to agree on how to halve CO emissions towards 2030. The cabinet has recently responded to the Fit for 55 package, the ambitious climate plans of Commissioner Frans Timmermans. So there's a lot of movement in it. If you compare that to four years ago, when climate was not even discussed in some election programmes, we used the turnaround in the Netherlands. But I, like Mrs Ouwehand, am still not satisfied. Much more will have to be done. I wasn't even finished with my climate block either, because I'm about to tell you what else is needed, in industry, in mobility, in agriculture. This also concerns part of the unrest that I feel in myself about the duration of the formation. One of the main reasons why there should be a missionary cabinet again as soon as possible is to increase these climate actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u42	I do not doubt Mr Jetten's intentions, but we must point out that the 'greenest cabinet ever' was the one that did not achieve its own climate goals on its own initiative, the lower limit of which is the Urgenda case, and that, if that judgment is there, it will not even ensure that it does so. And then it just says in this Millions Note that we give up that 1.5 degree, when that was the promise of Paris. The Climate Act controls at 2 degrees, but we agreed to do everything we can to stay below that 1.5 degree. So that's complicated. I also find it very complicated that... We were not in favour of that Climate Agreement, because you should not throw your problems over the fence of society and say: you find out at those tables. But at least in the Climate Agreement an agreement has been made about this CO storage. And now the cabinet comes up with a package of nearly 7 billion, and what do they do with it? Extending the climate agreement, which was too little. I therefore hope to hear strong resistance from D66 in the future of this block, including the subsidies for biomass still on the budget, which we would all abolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u43	If I continue with my speech, I will also come to a part of the answer to these questions from Mrs Ouwehand. My compliments, by the way, for her outfit yesterday at Princess Day. That was a good statement against biomass. You also know that there has been a great deal of opposition from the D66 Group. We want these subsidies to be phased out quickly and we always want the biomass that is still being used to be truly sustainable. There's still a long way to go. Mrs Ouwehand said: with the Climate Agreement we are talking about the fence. Yes and no, I would actually like to answer that. The point of the Climate Agreement has also been to discuss the importance of the greening of the Netherlands with a very broad coalition of companies, civil society and NGOs. This was also necessary for the support we will need in the years to come to live up to those climate ambitions. Yes, the Climate Agreement will have to be broken open, but above all to make more agreements to bring those targets up to date. There really is an important task for the formation and a next cabinet. What we can do now, I am happy to do with Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u44	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, finally. The climate agreement must certainly be broken open, but in order to tighten up the agreements and not to relax them, what seems to be happening now. I would like to switch with D66 that the Party for Animals sincerely believes that we should say goodbye to that idea of: we throw it to the polder. What is happening is this. An interest that counts for every Dutchman and everyone in the world is the public interest of a climate that prevents us from having heat waves and floods. This is an independent interest that we must defend here. If you make a deal, you actually say to civil society organisations: okay, you defend the importance of the climate and the companies defend their interests; if you come out together, it's okay. They're unequal interests. There is a public interest in a clean and safe living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u47	There are private interests that can count as well. But it's up to us to weigh it down. I would very much like to see that change in thinking with D66 in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u48	Yes, well, I understand Mrs Ouwehand's interruption better. But here too I would say... If you have just listened to Mrs Hermans, you have heard that she has said that the VVD has moved on in this area of thinking and that there is indeed a greater role to be played by the government to live up to these climate ambitions. I think it's nice that we've gotten together at that point. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to mention a very concrete example that is now taking place. That's Tata Steel. I'm sure there are people in this room who say, "That's just gotta go." Fortunately, the discussion is now mainly about how to prevent you from doing suboptimal things in the next few years at Tata, such as CO storage underground, and how to help Tata make that switch to green hydrogen at once, so that we will produce the cleanest steel in the Netherlands. In that vibe we have to get together, because then you are really going to take advantage of the opportunities that the climate transition Netherlands can offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u50	If you are full of climate, what Mr Jetten has, then I do not understand why you are not thinking about immigration as well. I do not hear Mr Jetten talking about this. The International Energy Agency says that people are responsible for about 8.2 tonnes of CO emissions per person in total, by eating, driving, you name it. 8.2 tons. If you look at immigration, we have in the last ten years, say since Rutte is in power, about 870,000 non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands. If you do that time that 8.2 tons, you're going to have about 7.4 megaton emissions. That's two coal plants. If you do that even bigger and wider, and if you take all immigration with you, that has been 2 million people, so also the western immigrants are going to have to double it more than double it, and then you're going to end up with seven coal power stations. So it's very nice what you're saying, but why aren't you talking about immigration? If you had been stricter in immigration, you would not have had this effect. In fact, by opening the borders, D66 is responsible for at least three to seven coal power stations built because you had the borders open. Now you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u51	I'd almost say how wonderful that you've come up with this again. It's nice of you to think of another theme that you can blame immigrants for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u52	But it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u53	That's pretty good. But I am very happy that Mr Wilders is talking about migration. Because if you ask the entire Dutch Defence Summit, the United Nations and all the world's leading climate agencies, they say: the biggest cause of refugee flows and migration flows over the next five decades is climate change. We may be small with 17 million people, but it is precisely if we want to prevent people elsewhere in the world from dying of hunger, lack of drinking water and conflicts due to climate change that we, as Westerners and rich countries, have a great responsibility to take the lead. Look at Madagascar, Bangladesh and the Middle East: all the conflicts that are going on there are driven by climate change, by rising sea levels and by lack of food and clean drinking water. So if Mr Wilders wants us to get fewer migrants and refugees to Europe, he should actually be the climate champion of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u54	No, the opposite is the case. People from Africa don't come here because of climate change. Trust me. People from Africa are coming here massively. According to the UN, the population in Africa triples to five billion people at the end of this century. And a billion of them are indeed heading our way. That is what the UN itself says: one billion comes towards Europe at the end of the century. And they don't because of the climate. They do that because they have a better life here, because they get a free allowance here, because they get a free home here, because they get everything they can get for free because the Rob Jettes of this world say, "Come here." That's right. Come on. You're glad. You're proud of it. Africa is not coming here because of the climate, but because of our welfare state, because of our free homes. That's why they're here. But you're not answering my question. I understand it's painful and you're joking about it. It's great that Wilders found it again. But it's the truth. By opening the borders, you have squeezed CO emissions here in the Netherlands, which is so important to you, with three to seven coal plants. If you hadn't done that, we wouldn't have needed all these crazy measures here in the Netherlands. We wouldn't have needed that! What's your answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yes, chairman, people who come to the Netherlands are added to our total population composition and they are part of the CO emissions of the Netherlands. That's what you have to relate to. But I'm concerned about the root cause of why people come here. And the root cause of flights and migrate is......................................................................................................................... If you cannot recognise that, you cannot tackle these root causes, nor can you pursue a better migration and refugee policy. Mr Wilders and I are not going to agree on that. It is precisely because of climate change that we need to invest and also help countries in Africa to combat climate change and adapt to the climate change that is already going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u56	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u57	Madam President, that is simply not an answer. Every year a city like Dordrecht joins migration in the Netherlands. Over the past ten years, we have had twice a city like Amsterdam to live in because of migration. Of course, those people need a house, those people have a car, they're heating up. It is logical that more migration leads to more emissions. Again, a house, a car: they all have it. They're using it. And it also makes sense that these people want to use it. Migration thus leads to a huge increase in CO emissions in a full country like the Netherlands. And again, you can make a joke about it and laugh about it, but if you want to tackle the climate problem you believe in and ignore the growth of the population and the extra emissions, you have a mock debate. Take it seriously and say to me or to the Netherlands: I accept that and you will all have to take terrible measures later because we leave the borders open. Or agree with me and say: one of the most important measures to tackle the climate in the Netherlands is to limit immigration if you already believe in it. We'll have fewer people here who need houses, cars, food, or I'll know what they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr President, I have heard Mr Wilders say a few times in this debate that these status holders and refugees get everything for free. I don't know if he's ever been in conversation with a status holder who's been assigned a house, but he just pays rent every month for that. I can give you the answer again, but it's very simple. Yes, more people in the Netherlands mean more CO emissions, but the root cause of migration and flight is climate change, and that is why we in the Netherlands must do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you, there is an interruption by Mrs van der Plas from BBB, then Mr Eerdmans and then Mr Azarkan. I suggest that you continue with your speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you. About the climate. Everyone wants to do something about the climate. I don't think there are any climate deniers. Can Mr Jetten explain how D66 is going to reconcile that with the fact that D66 is very much committed to that reduction in livestock.................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Jetten also knows that for every cow you get out of here, you need three other cows somewhere else. What is that helping the global climate problem? Mr Jetten spoke about nature, which is devastated by the nitrogen impact. Farmers must disappear from nature reserves, while there are natural areas that thrive despite the fact that there is intensive livestock farming in the immediate vicinity. For example, the Korenburgerveen in Winterswijk. It's going really well. That nature reserve has about the highest excess in nitrogen precipitation of all nature reserves in the Netherlands. Nature thrives there. Why? Because there is cooperation between nature associations and farmers. But D66, as well as other parties, prefer to have all those farmers away from those nature reserves, because they would destroy nature. I would like Mr Jetten to explain how he rhymes with that: away with cattle and away with nature reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I don't know this nature reserve near Winterswijk, but it's not far from me, so I'm gonna take a look. It's beautiful in the Achterhoek. I have often debated with you the fact that farmers in the Netherlands have had to adapt very often in recent decades. You have once said to me that there is not enough recognition in this house that farmers are constantly being given new rules, that they have to introduce new techniques, you name it. That is also very frustrating for farmers, because they have done a lot in recent years. The problem is, of course, fundamental. We keep keeping them in that bio-industry. With a new stable technique we always keep a sausage for those farmers: if you make another huge mortgage at the Rabobank and adjust your stable again, everything will be fine. But the reality is that it keeps them stuck in a bankrupt system. It's a system where you only have to produce bigger, bigger, bigger and earn as much as 20, 30 years ago as a pig farmer. I think it's even worse in pig farming. Only 10% of such a pig ends up in that farmer's wallet and the rest of the money goes to all kinds of other parties in the food chain. So we need to help farmers get out of this bankrupt system by supporting them in the shift to circular agriculture so that they can make money in a decent way. That is with fewer cattle, but also with less impact on nature, public health and you name it, and at a fair price for their food. That is the alternative that D66 offers to farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u62	I didn't mention a fair price for food at all. I'll get to that later. I'm just asking a completely different question. You are not answering my question at all. D66 is very committed to reducing livestock. It should be half less, because that would be good for the climate. In the Netherlands animal proteins are produced with a very low ecological footprint, such as meat, eggs and dairy, while there is also arable farming and fruit growing. That's what we do here with a low ecological footprint, but you know something's coming back elsewhere in the world. D66 just knows that. Worldwide consumption of meat, eggs and dairy is increasing. We can't like that, but that's just a fact. You know that. You also know that it does not benefit biodiversity. Countries like China and Ukraine are not at all interested in something like field edges. They're just gonna produce full-bodied stuff. We know that. You also need a lot more land for those cows. D66 just knows that. My question is this. What good is it going to do worldwide in terms of climate? That's what we're talking about. That is what Mr Jetten is talking about. What's in it for us all over the world? Why shouldn't we focus on these innovations? I would also like to be clear about the bio-industry you mention. The intensive livestock farming has already reduced so much. You can say that it hasn't helped at all and that they are stuck in a system: the ammonia reduction in pig farming has been 80% in the last 30 years. There is no sector that has reduced so much. So don't call that bio-industry all the time, because it's just a false frame. I just want to answer my question: what good is the Netherlands going to do worldwide if D66's plans are pushed through to halve the livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u63	Yes, Mr President, there is a great deal in this question from Mrs Van der Plas. I tend to answer everything, but I won't. Countries around the world will have to make efforts to meet climate targets. This means that the future of agriculture is under discussion in all the countries of the world. Yes, in China and Ukraine the average farmer emits much more than the average farmer in the Netherlands, but there too it is untenable. There too, the agricultural system will eventually have to change. What we can do in the Netherlands is to see how we can improve things further here. Then I say this: the impact of the current way of producing food in the Netherlands on our own nature is too great. I think the judge's been through a lot of farmers' permits again today. We can continue to promise that it will be better if a farmer starts to innovate and tackle his stable system again, but it is a bankrupt system. We shouldn't do that to farmers again. It is a very hard message, but let us please say that we are going to make a change with you to circular agriculture in one go. Yeah, with fewer cattle and more attention to nature. We do so in a way where the farmer can also earn a better living. I think that is a responsibility of ours as a government for that fantastic agricultural sector we have. Countries like China, Ukraine, etc. will eventually follow. Mr President, I am at the end of my reply to this point. I recently read a very interesting piece on Austria. That country in the European Union has really taken the lead in the transition to organic farming. The fascinating thing is that there it is the Christian parties who lead the way to the transformation into circular agriculture. That is because the CDU ministers there say: we are standing next to the farmers; we are no longer going to lie to them, but we are going to help them to get a future perspective. I'd like to give that to the Dutch farmers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u64	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u65	I still don't have an answer to my question. You say that there are a lot of things in your speech, but that is not true at all. I ask one question: what good is it going to do for us all over the world? I didn't get an answer to that. I conclude from that that you do not know either. About nature: there are nature areas that do it very well, despite the fact that they are located in a nitrogen-sensitive area. I would like to mention that, because that is what I said in my first interruption. Today, a research has been conducted by a researcher from Wageningen University. It says literally that the soil life in agricultural land is much better than in natural grassland. He's been looking into it. Mr Jetten is only calling for farmers. Farmers should not listen to politics. The farmers should not listen to politics. Politics must listen to the farmers, because there is the practice, there is the knowledge and there is the expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u66	I've been on a job visit to many farms over the past few years. Young farmers often said to me: politics should listen to us more. It was about a bankrupt system that you couldn't make a living with anymore. That is why I call for a change to circular farming. Nature thrives. We know that the Netherlands does not comply with the European Union's directives on nature quality, water quality and you name it all. We will have to invest heavily in this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u67	That was the cube of climate. I think you were still working on energy transition. One of the coercive measures of D66 around the energy transition is the programme on natural gas-free neighbourhoods. I'm sure you know that. That's Minister Ollongren's. 50 so-called test garden municipalities participate in this. That's where everyone needs to get rid of the natural gas. Can Mr. Jetten tell me how many houses have been taken from the natural gas programme at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u68	No, I can't. I do know this goes with falling and getting up. It's a big operation. One municipality succeeds better than the other. If we have to get rid of natural gas in the coming years because we want to emit less CO and because we do not want to pump up more Groningen gas, we will have to offer an alternative source of heat to people. Not everyone can organize that for themselves. That's why it's good that these test grounds in those pilot neighbourhoods are there, to see how that can be done in a good way. How do you learn from that? Then you can get as many households off the natural gas in a good way as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u69	That's a long answer about more traps than getting up. 'Cause, yeah, I can't. I just can't get those houses off the gas. Why not? Because people don't want it. They are not in line, even though they are sometimes almost bribed by the government in certain neighbourhoods, with: there will be a subsidy; would you please turn in your gas stove? People don't want that. This is also evident from all the surveys: rather not, and certainly not if I have to pay for them. But here it comes. In fact, we still have the programme built environment. That's about the rest of the Netherlands. That's 7 million houses that all have to get rid of the gas. I've only checked the cost of that. That's 7 million houses times 40,000 each. Then we are at EUR 300 billion. I can still see you nodding. I think, then, that is equal to the sum we spent as a government last year in total. So D66 says we're gonna force all the houses off the gas. That operation doesn't work if we're organizing it with labs. Thank goodness, you'd say. This is enforced in the rest of the Netherlands, with a total price tag of 300 billion. Do you know that in Rotterdam we have a professor we call the "climate guru"? That's Professor Jan Rotmans. I see the health minister nodding. We know him. He tried to take his own house off the gas and he couldn't. He says: I put €40,000 into it and it still hasn't worked out. In short, how do you expect this balloon, this green balloon of D66, to come up, when everyone knows that balloon will be punctured sooner or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr. Chairman. Mr Eerdmans says that people are not waiting for it at all. There are also examples where things are going very well. In Nijmegen, in the district of Jerusalem, residents have long resisted the removal of natural gas. That's where the homes are now refurbished and people are connected to a heat grid. People are very satisfied with that now. So it's possible. But I have to admit that this is perhaps the most difficult part of the climate agreement. We know very well what needs to be done in industry, in agriculture and in mobility. In the built environment it's just more complicated. I come to people behind the front door. It's a huge change-over of the house. Now it is asking for substantial investment. Those labs are meant, among other things, to reduce costs. I am going to call again in a moment for a major increase in climate ambitions in the Netherlands, but I think that we should do this especially for industry, mobility, electricity production and agriculture. In the built environment, precisely because things are still falling and getting up there, we should keep our ambitions as they are for the time being, so that we can do so in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u71	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u72	A lot of people aren't waiting for it, but when they see what their energy bill is going to be, because the gas price is going up, because we don't want gas anymore, they're farther away from home. So look at the alternatives. Look at the innovations in industry. Fine. Maybe there's a profit to be made there. But this is what you do to people. This is gonna be a hit. Energy poverty is for a reason a term that is already paying off in Germany. The people simply become poor with these ambitions, because it drives people at high costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u73	Yes, but precisely because of the rising gas price, it is also important to remove houses from the gas. My counter question to Mr Eerdmans would actually be: do you want to continue pumping longer in Groningen? I do not think we want that in this Chamber anymore either. We have made the choice here that because of the earthquakes in Groningen we will stop winning natural gas. Then we will also have to offer an alternative as a government to warm your house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u74	You will have the opportunity to respond, because you were addressed directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u75	Start with nuclear power. That's the solution. It's a clean form of energy. A lot of scientists say that we have had many discussions with the left, and that is what some common sense is finally beginning to get through to the fact that it is a clean form of energy. The garbage is good to store. There are all ghost stories about nuclear power, which have even been wiped out by people on the left. It is a way in which you can increase your energy supply significantly in the future in a sustainable way, without windmills that pollute the entire landscape. We already have nice power stations. It's easy to reach one. I hope that the cabinet will reflect on that; I will certainly ask the cabinet for that in my contribution. Mr. Jetten, please take for what: energy becomes nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u77	In the meantime, I'm trying to figure out how to heat a house with nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u78	Mr President, today it was just a moment about the document produced by the VVD and D66 this summer. One major theme was missing, namely nitrogen. When I asked, the answer was: that's what the Demissionary Cabinet is doing, so you'll see it on Prince's Day. I've read all the pieces with expectation. Maybe I skipped something, but I don't see anything about an extra approach to tackle the nitrogen crisis. Can Mr Jetten explain to me why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u79	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that saves me a bit of speech. I would like to pass on the question to the cabinet. Today, too, there have been court rulings that simply go through permits. This shows that the nitrogen crisis is large and that what we are doing is still insufficient. That will require additional efforts. If the formation continues longer, the whole of the Netherlands will look at this missionary cabinet to do more in the area of nitrogen. We have already read in the newspapers all about what the cabinet would be doing. Sensible things I read there, such as targeted buyout of peak loaders around nature reserves. I am very curious to see what is going on with this and when we can expect any new plans from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u80	Well, Mr. President, I was mild this summer when the play came, because I understood that it was so acute that we couldn't actually wait for a new cabinet. The outgoing cabinet should therefore come up with plans. But that kindness isn't there anymore. I wish this had been resolved during formation. But as long as the CDA and the VVD do not want to talk to us, or to anyone in this room, in order to establish a cabinet, it must be done here in Parliament. That means we have to raise the target. The CDA has written in the agricultural vision that we need to reduce to 50% instead of 30%. That's profit. I thought that's what this cabinet's gonna do right away. But that has not happened; we must take the initiative as a Chamber. The same applies to the targeted buy-out, which has now been investigated. We need to take these steps in this budget round, because if we do not, we cannot build it, the Netherlands will be locked up and permits will be destroyed, which means a lot of uncertainty for farmers. Can we work together this autumn to solve this problem, because this cabinet is not doing anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr President, the cabinet is busy. My question would be: when can we expect new proposals? I also think that nitrogen is a good example of how we have managed to bridge political differences with this Chamber, or indeed with the previous Chamber. I don't know exactly which parties were involved, but I think that was the CDA, the VVD, the Christian Union, D66, SP, SGP and 50PLUS. They concluded a nitrogen agreement last year. More is needed now, so perhaps we can bridge the political differences again in order to take new steps in the area of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u83	Our political love is an open secret. If I am going to say something very critical, you know how much I mean it, otherwise I wouldn't. But you cannot believe that last year's nitrogen law was a good example of how political differences were bridged. We already knew then, on the basis of Johan Remkes' advice, that 50% reduction was needed, but 30% reduction was agreed. All the experts said: this law is not going to last for more than a year. That has proved to be the case, because that law does not last for more than a year. New additional measures are needed. Instead of looking for a political compromise, we just have to do what is necessary. We've known that for a long time. The CDA goes along with that and says: 50% reduction is nice. The next step is to ensure that sufficient budget is available for the targeted buy-out. As far as I am concerned, we cannot conclude LNV's budget until there is a solution to the problem of nitrogen. I really hope we can get together on that. This requires more than just friendly cooperation. The patience is really up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u84	The nitrogen agreement at that time was a first step and not enough to tackle the problem of nitrogen altogether. Why I thought it was a good example is because political opposites felt the responsibility to at least start the nitrogen approach. Now we have to make a big move on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u85	Let me see if your block of environment and climate is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u86	Actually, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u87	Then I ask Mr Jetten to finish that block and then I give Mrs Ouwehand the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u88	I am sure Mrs Ouwehand will not mind if I spend a few more minutes on the climate. Mr President, the helm has to change. We will have to reduce CO emissions by 60% by 2030. We're barely at 25% now. We've only got eight years left. People themselves are already doing a part, but it is mainly about industry and agriculture. The government has to help with that. I am glad that green industrial policy is now commonplace in this Chamber. So that's what we can do. I would also like to see the plans and commitments of every major polluter as soon as possible. The government can help with that. For the 30 major polluters, I am open to conversations about customisation, but only with firm commitments from those companies, because there are no free lunches in this respect. Agriculture must speed up the transition to cycle. As far as D66 is concerned, the bio-industry will end within ten years. This must be generous, because farmers cannot help it that they have entered the hamster wheel of intensification. Our plans are not only for nature, but also for the future of farmers. We want them to earn more with fewer cattle. That is possible, but it is also necessary, because nature is in tribulation worldwide. Three quarters of the bugs are gone. Animal species are lost for future generations and the food chain is under pressure from global warming, which is also accelerated by the disappearance of biodiversity. To do something about this, I want the Netherlands to be a frontrunner at the UN's major biodiversity conference in China, and I call on the Prime Minister to do so so so that we can make international agreements that we can implement at national level. Climate ambition can only succeed if it is accompanied by social ambition. We were just talking about that. Let us help the people who live in a drafty house with a high energy bill first. Anyone who wants to drive electric should be able to do so at an affordable price, even if you're looking for a second-hand electric car. Anyone who wants to use public transport must be able to go anywhere quickly and clean. Let me be clear about this drastic transition. The climate and nature crisis can only be tackled like the corona crisis. That is, without looking back and in the constant realization that we will make mistakes and that it will sometimes be terribly expensive. But if we fail, the price is many times higher than what we can easily afford with our well-stocked wallet. If we succeed, we can live better, safer swimming, cleaner breathing, richer living and more comfortable living than we've ever done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u89	I heard the D66 group say that she needs to applaud, so I thought I would pass that on to the group chairman immediately. In itself, the analysis is beautiful, as is the warm words for nature and climate, but I came forward a few minutes ago, because after the debate with Mrs van der Plas, Mr Jetten rightly said that farmers deserve clarity, that they need to know where they stand. He said: that nitrogen law was actually quite a political success. Hello! That nitrogen law has been deliberately adopted and presented by these Chambers by the Minister for Agriculture, while it contains wrong choices and does too little. The budgets that have been set aside or are forcing farmers to innovate allow them to continue on the Rabobank's leash, while we know that it is not enough for the transition that is needed. Now I think a little bit of D66 too, I thought earlier on at the VVD, that the Netherlands does not regain confidence in politics by saying one thing and doing the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u90	I think I just set the wrong example. I just wanted to say the following. This APB, apart from all the substantive discussions, is today and tomorrow also about the question: in such a fragmented political landscape do we manage to do good things with each other for the Netherlands? I am getting some energy from the fact that this debate is going more in that direction than we might have expected in the first place. That's why I mentioned last year's Nitrogen Act. Then all kinds of parties you didn't expect found each other. But I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand that this was also a compromise. That wasn't enough to do it right at once. So I now see her interruption as a great encouragement to do better on the nitrogen dossier this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u91	I really don't think we can afford to do this to farmers again. Mr Jetten rightly said this to Mrs Van der Plas. That means we don't have to bow to the pressure that they don't feel like it with the VVD or the CDA; I don't know who it was. D66 has suggested fewer animals. That's where you really have to go if you want to solve problems fundamentally. A political compromise that is not an answer to that insane challenge that everyone faces, and not least farmers, is not the answer. We will have to be honest, and I am also talking to D66 about this. We must protect farmers from unfair external competition. This means: no new free trade agreements, if that means opening European borders to products that farmers in the Netherlands and Europe are not allowed to produce under these conditions. So I'd like to have that clarity. Then today we could conclude that with D66 we can indeed take that step forward. Then we hope to find a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you. Mr Jetten and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u93	I myself welcome Mrs Kaag's initiative, then Foreign Trade Minister, and the French: if Europe is to conclude new free trade agreements, these lasting agreements must be much more ambitious, including for better protection of food production in Europe. So I share that very much with her. But also about the glass half full, also in the debate on nitrogen and the future of the agricultural sector. I think it was Derk Boswijk of the CDA group who, as a new MP, I found that very bravely presented ambitious CDA agricultural plans that really break with the past. I hope that in this Chamber we will be able to make good proposals for the future of the agricultural sector in the Netherlands in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u94	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have spoken about the three major crises: the opportunity crisis, the housing crisis and the climate and nature crisis. But I would also like to dwell on a completely different subject. Early this month, Surinamese President Santokhi paid a historic visit and met our parliament in the Knight's Room. The president spoke impressively about the relationship between the Netherlands and Suriname and about the history that our countries share. I quote: 'The ties between our countries are historic. We have been connected for centuries, even in a relationship that must be characterized by black pages in our both history." Mr. Chairman. This is a history that we still have to bear in mind. In previous debates, I have drawn attention to the way slavery history and colonial history work in today's society; how slavery and the colonial period have generated patterns of stereotyping, discrimination and institutional racism, which, to date, leads to fewer opportunities for many Dutch people. For me, President Santokhi's historic visit and the report of the Slavery Advisory Group are a new opportunity to do justice to that history as quickly as possible. That is why I am again appealing to all my colleagues in this Chamber during these political discussions. If the Netherlands apologizes for our role in slavery history, that could be the beginning of healing wounds. It can be the basis for a future in which we love each other, trust each other and make each other stronger. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Today, in my party's environmental tradition, I have long considered what we can do to prevent the threat of climate change and natural disasters. That is fundamental to me in a literal sense. In the absence of government policy to be general, I have seized the opportunity to be specific. In his essay, architect Floris Alkemade asks whether we are strong enough to live in our own time. Meaning, can we change direction in time? Let us answer that question in this Parliament. As far as I am concerned, this can only be done with one word, namely 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Azarkan and then by Mr Van der Staaij. First Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u97	D66 talks a lot about diversity, about combating discrimination and inequality. Mr Jetten and I have jointly tabled the proposal for the appointment of a national coordinator to combat racism and discrimination. There's gonna be one. It is now stated in the documents and also in the answer given by Minister Ollongren of D66 that she will pay EUR 2 million. But researchers say that if you really want to be able to do something, 5 million euros is structuralally necessary. Is Mr Jetten prepared to increase that amount of EUR 2 million together with DENK to EUR 5 million in structural terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u98	I'm glad that coordinator's finally getting there. I have also seen that the budget for this national coordinator is seen as too limited. I think it's wise to push it up. I don't know if we can fix that right now. Otherwise, I would like to draw and drag Mr Azarkan into it later on. If you really want to eliminate discrimination and institutional racism, you really have to work in all kinds of areas, as the report of the Slavery Advisory Group says. Such a national coordinator is one thing: it must be someone who can continue and intervene if necessary, but it also requires better information in schools, a harder approach to brokers, all those places where Mr Azarkan is constantly trying to combat discrimination. So the more we can do, the better. I'm gonna take him to see what time we can arrange that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u99	I am pleased because I myself have learned from one of the previous ministers, Mr Donner: never believe my words, but believe my budget. When I look at Mr Jetten, I think that much more needs to be done. I am also in favour of this, because it affects too many people. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is talking about 3.7 million Dutch, so in that sense 2 million than 0.00005th of the budget. Again, for the people at home, when we talk here about poor policy or policy-rich, that says nothing; just EUR 353 billion is spent on all kinds of plans. In this 353 billion we can find a few million together to combat the major problem of discrimination, racism and inequality, I say to Mr Jetten through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u100	My colleague Salima Belhaj, the spokesperson for discrimination in the group, is looking at me. I think she'll take the glove with you to see if we can find anything in that 353 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u101	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and then Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u102	Mr Jetten has said that he regrets that there is no new cabinet and that we are still talking to a outgoing cabinet. It may seem to viewers a bit like he says that in a tone where you say at the holiday address: "What a pity that it is such rainy weather. That happens to us." But D66 is a leading player, also in the whole cabinet formation. My question is: how do you look back on the fact that these themes, which you are all referring to today, have still not been sufficiently highlighted, also because of D66? And what can D66 do to accelerate formation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u103	A fair question, I think, from Mr Van der Staaij. I also said it to journalists yesterday after the speech of the throne: I myself am frustrated that we are on this point. I'm glad that got through between the lines. In the summer, with this document, we have shown that you can really make a difference on many of these substantive issues. Mr Van der Staaij, like other parties who have talked to us about this document in general, will have all kinds of ideas on how to do this better. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to negotiate for a majority cabinet from that document. Now we're looking with informant Remkes to see if, and if so how, you can still work with a minority cabinet. But for me last week and today's debate have shown that a minority cabinet only makes sense if you can form a constructive and fruitful cooperation with the Chamber. That requires something from us as D66, from the VVD and the CDA, but also from the other constructive forces in this Chamber. In any case, I will personally do my best to see how we can achieve this breakthrough in the coming week, so that we can form as soon as possible and have a new coalition agreement as soon as possible. Then I will not have to keep such an urgent story anymore, but I can mainly talk about whether the new coalition agreement is good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u104	I also noticed that medical ethics was not such an urgent issue in Mr Jetten's speech. I recognize that too, because that is what Mrs Kaag said before the elections. She said, "That's not great or mind in people." How then is it possible that it was such an important point later in the formation to say: we do not even want to talk to the Christian Union about the issues you are talking about so much now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u105	I'd like to talk to the Christian Union. I see all kinds of variants of coalitions that include both D66 and the Christian Union. Then we will have to find a way to deal with these issues as well, where we clearly have huge differences of opinion. I have now focused on issues that really come back in the 2022 budget. But I find myself... Alexander Pechtold said that the other day I thought it was the TV show Jinek. We often tend to think that themes about medical ethics and emancipation are never urgent enough to put on top of the agenda, because there is always another fire that you have to put out. But if you forget to continue working on themes such as emancipation and medical ethics, then as a country at some point you are lagging behind enormously and you are not trying to give each individual the freedom to shape his life. It is precisely because we also want to have a decent social debate on topics such as medical ethics, for example, a completed life or the future of the embryo and abortion law, that I thought it was important from D66 to give these subjects an explicit place in that basic piece, but in the knowledge that this is only the beginning of many debates in this Chamber and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u106	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u107	Finally. Indeed, if I see it correctly, I always follow other parties with interest. These are also subjects of debate within a group such as D66 itself. In the summer I saw in the journal of the scientific institute that Paul Schnabel says: there is no need for a complete life law. Yesterday I heard Terlouw say: yes, I also have great hesitation. That is a subject that is even divided within your own group. I'd make the next call. Let us look above all, including in the cabinet formation, at issues that are very wide-ranging, which are said to be: we have to make a point there. Because we cannot afford to rule out too much in these times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u108	I am pleased that Mr Van der Staaij cites the Idea magazine of our scientific agency, the Van Mierlo Foundation. The last song, just before the summer, was largely devoted to self-determination and to the discussion about the euthanasia law and the law of initiative. It is true, there you can also see huge differences of opinion within D66. I think it's great that we can do that in the party and that you can certainly really sand on such an important theme in the debate within the party. That's how it's supposed to be when it comes to life and death. I cannot go back on the exact wording of the document, but we have said so in my own words: firstly, we need to have a good social and political debate, but also to give everyone the freedom to judge themselves on such legislative proposals. That's how I hope we'll be able to deal with each other in this house in the next few years. I myself have an initiative law to amend the abortion law, to remove the period of reflection for women. There is an initiative law on completed life of D66. As far as I am concerned, we are going to discuss these legislative proposals very carefully here, and I think it would be very logical for Members of Parliament in all groups to be free to consider them individually, because they are such difficult subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u109	Thank you. Finally, I will give Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then we will go to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the corona crisis, companies have, of course, received a great deal of support from the taxpayer, in particular in order to maintain jobs. Now a lot of these companies are doing well again and they are making a lot of profit again. Would you then find it fair if a large part of that profit would go back to society, which, after all, has kept those companies alive?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u111	I find that an interesting thought. Many party leaders, list leaders, have argued in the campaign for, for example, a crisis tax or whatever it was called. You can also discuss over the next few years how we deal with the level of our taxes, whether that way you can make the business pay back for the enormous corona support they have had. I am very open to discussing this with each other in the coming period. The other side of the coin is, of course, that we also have entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who are still facing major problems due to the coronapandemic, often smaller entrepreneurs with debts, tax debts, etc. I think we should find a solution to that. But when it comes to Booking.com, KLM and other large companies that have received many, many millions of euro's of corona support, I think it is only right to see if they can do what back in the future, now that things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u112	I think that's an excellent thing to do. It is, of course, true that at the moment it is not of any use to people. People have nothing at all to gain from this missionary cabinet, we heard yesterday in the Throne speech. The minimum wage, for example. That's what the campaign was all about: nothing heard about it; it's not going up. The crucial professions. The King had nice words for it: thank you. So after the applause also a thank you from the king, but there is no extra investment in care, education and you name it all. And I can go on for a while: pensions are not growing, they are not rising with prices, they are going well economically. I would ask Mr Jetten that, at the moment when things are going badly, society is good enough to pay aid, but that, when things are going well, nothing happens to the tax on profits? That's the easiest thing to do, isn't it? Surely we could raise that income tax a little bit to make sure that those companies pay their fair share even now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u113	That's one of the things that goes through my head. It is, of course, the case that this cabinet is three-fold outgoing, as I said at the beginning of my speech. These kinds of discussions really belong at the formation table. I am very open to finding similar solutions with each other. I see Mrs Marijnissen sighing a bit of 'we're going to talk about that formation again', but I would really like to bounce the ball back. The SP Group has not helped to speed up the cabinet formation in recent times either. You voted against Mrs Hammer's appointment. You voted against Mrs Hammer's second appointment. In the previous debate, you voted against Mr Rutte's motion to appoint informant Remkes and you also voted against Mr Wilders' motion for a new election, but I did not see a Marijnissen motion in the previous debate on how we should get out of this impasse. On many of your substantive points, I think 'well, interesting and let's see how we can get on with it', but then I would also like to challenge you to tell us what the SP can do to make that formation a bit smooth and to quickly arrive at a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u115	At the end of his term, Mr. Jetten is gonna be all over it, if you ask me. Now he's gonna blame the SP Group. We have not been working for six months, Mr. Jetten, walking out every day and telling the people that we are doing so well along the lines of content and then getting to know that no word has yet been said about that content. No, it's true. We did not support the proposal to support Mrs Hammer on the road, just as we did not support the proposal to send Mr Remkes on the road. And unfortunately, I would like to add, we are right, because I cannot say that this formation has been extremely successful. But today we are here as House of Representatives and also in this House of Representatives there is a political majority already, whether cabinet or not, missionary or not, in order to increase that tax on profits. That is why I asked you whether it would be a little fair to say at least that we are raising the tax on profits for companies with which we are now doing well and which have also received support from the taxpayer. We can just arrange that as a Lower House. Then you can come up with a you-bowl about the formation, but I think we're right on our side. For the past six months we have seen that it has not been very successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u116	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u117	It's nice if you got that right, but you didn't outline the alternative route out of this impasse either. That's just the sincere question I have to the SP. You know, I'm frustrated that it's taking so long, too. And yes, I've walked in and out, and that hasn't helped either. But how? If you know, Mrs. Marijnissen, help us, so we can get back to each other. That's a genuine offer. Then again about the tax on profits, because that started the interruption of Mrs Marijnissen. I have already said that I think it is a very logical idea that you of companies that have survived thanks to the corona support, which requires extras now that economic conditions are improving. In what form we can best do that and what you are going to spend that extra revenue on, we can talk a lot about that in the future. But I think Mrs Marijnissen's idea is quite understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u118	I would like to give Mrs Marijnissen a moment, because you are asking her a direct question. I'd almost say stop it for once. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u119	I find it too easy for Mr Jetten. Call me one invitation we turned down from the informant. There isn't one. I've responded to all the invitations from every informant. It was the parties forming at that time who at some point were no longer happy to invite us. I might have an idea why. In the leaked minutes, our party was on the list with Mrs Kaag, together with the PVV and Forum for Democracy, which she really wanted nothing to do with. So in order to blame us for the fact that this formation isn't smooth, I don't think it's entirely fair. We're standing here today as House of Representatives. As a Lower House, we can decide to allow companies to pay a fairer share, to increase the income tax. In fact, there is a political majority for this. So I'm also counting on the House of Representatives to do its job, especially at a time when the Demissionary Cabinet brings people in the Netherlands nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you. Then I would like to thank Mr Jetten for his contributions and give the floor to Mr Heerma for his contribution. We're gonna clean up real quick. I call Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u121	Well, we're already at speaker four!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u122	Be brave, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u123	Always! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Every time is transition time," said the King yesterday at the beginning of the throne speech. At the end of 2019, the Pope said it just differently in his Christmas speech. He said, "We are not living in an age of change, but we are experiencing a change of age." The labour market, the climate, housing, undermining, geopolitical threat: they are the challenges of today. And they're all touching that change of that era. The corona crisis has worked over the past year as a magnifying glass for contradictions in our society. We're getting higher education, but we still have over two million low-lettereds. We are more and more connected digitally and yet loneliness is growing. And in the surcharge scandal, thousands of people were put into inexplicable problems by the hands of their own government. The Belgian writer Jonathan Holslag describes in his latest book how the walls that were demolished 40 years ago are now being rebuilt, and not only between countries, but also between groups in our society. In my opinion, this is the result of a misconception of the 1990s. When it was thought that the victory of the West, liberalism, was the end of history. Holslag says it is our own fault, because we lacked the wisdom to maintain social cohesion. With this he echoed a wisdom that the Spanish philosopher Ortega stated almost a century earlier. He stated, in the interwar period between the First and the Second World War, that as prosperity and freedom become too obvious, people are going to think that that prosperity and freedom are as natural and spontaneous as a tree or sunlight, and that it is forgotten that it is difficult to achieve historical achievements that require blood, sweat and tears, but that they are also necessary to maintain them. In recent years, we have increasingly seen the shadows, the shadows of individualisation and neoliberal thinking, such as the banking crisis, the hypercapitalism of powerful tech companies and reckless private equity funds, the depletion of the earth, climate change, increasing inequality in the labour market, a crisis in the housing market, the loss of community sense, loneliness, a government that is stuck in technocratic bureaucracy and the recent rise of polarisation and identity politics. As a CDA, I believe that vision is important in this respect, perhaps I am a bit different from the Prime Minister, and that is why, during these General Political Reviews, as every year, I want to put forward the vision first and then discuss some of these substantive issues. In doing so, I believe that freedom without restrictions means that for more and more others there is freedom. Freedom isn't always what you want to do. Then you end up with "every man for himself and the state for all of us." It doesn't work. Fortunately, in last year's corona crisis, we also saw the need for community spirit in society. The true secret of the cooperative society is that people together put their shoulders on it. So the response to the challenges of today comes from the strength of society. A government can contribute to this, but it must do so in a different way than it is now, because in recent years growth, efficiency and efficiency have become too important criteria. Too often the citizen has been seen as a customer or as a cost. Thus, too often general interest has been replaced by individual interest and we have seen regents replaced by technocrats and managers. Just now Mr.Jetten Floris Alkemade mentioned the future of the Netherlands with his booklet. That was a fantastic book, so I'm not going to go around quoting it. He says in that booklet: "Where spreadsheets seem to have the truth in rent, the head is bent and all too often the thinking stops." In that same booklet he also says that the Netherlands is not a bv and should not be. I will conclude with a final quote: "In recent decades, the government has mainly spoken about the free market, and this attitude has been at the expense of social values which must also be guarded by that same government." Mr. Chairman. The change of an era also involves a new horizon. That story does not begin with the forced choice between market and government. That story begins in society. Are we at the fundamental question of who we want to be and what binds us, loose sand that seeks its own way or are we a community of people who belong together, are connected and need each other? I believe the latter. Freedom is not: do what you want. It is a balance between autonomy and self-limitation. Freedom is not an absence of duties towards each other, but the freedom to do good for yourself and for others and to take care of others. Not together for our own, but together for each other. It is precisely this link in the form of reciprocity, responsibility and solidarity that can restore confidence in society. And then, as one community, we will be able to face all the challenges. It is precisely in a pluralist and multicoloured society that we need solid ground or shared values and common institutions. This puts society above government and above the market and gives citizens more space to shape a good life with each other. My introduction is almost ready. She's taking quite a while, I admit. But Asscher suffered from this in 2019. At this place not quite at this place, but behind this cathedral I spoke last year about the cooperative society, a society in which people buy healthy food together, receive children together, generate sustainable energy together, care for each other and together stamp out new housing projects for the elderly. The future lies in these common self-organising initiatives. They play the same role as the church, the union and the ANWB have always played. It's the cement between the stones, a network where people can fall back on, help each other, find meaning and feel at home. And not because it has to be from the government and not because it is paid through the market, but because we as people just need each other. It is an era beyond individualization. It is a society that does justice to people and their mutual relationships, and in which freedom and responsibility are inextricably linked. It is a new balance between society, market and government, with strong support for that cooperative society. It's in society, in civil society. Our scientific institute, which was quoted from D66 as well, so I also wrote recently that it is about doing justice to each other, connecting healthy life and difference, to be jointly responsible for the Netherlands. This is a change we will not achieve in one day. This is not possible with a few motions in the second term, although we have seen in this debate that there are opportunities. But I really believe that this change of era, this revolution, is already going on in society. The question is whether we can help that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u124	There are two interruptions, by Mr Klaver and by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u125	He always wants to be first, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u126	I got to work at the CNV for a while, a beautiful club. I was able to get to know Christian-social thinking there. Over the past few years, I've been thinking, where has the CDA moved to? I didn't see much of that. But this story, really, honestly meant: beautiful! For me, this is what the CDA is at the heart of, if it is up to me to say something about it, namely in the middle and in the heart of politics, with a view to society, where it is not just about the market but about the community, about how we make this society together. I actually have one very specific question: having heard this story, Mr Heerma, when are you going to table with the PvdA and GroenLinks to negotiate a new cabinet, to shape this vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u127	When Mr Klaver started his question and I heard the compliments, I suspected where the question was going. First of all, I have to say, and that's not to be silly, that this story is not a new story for me. Last year, in the General Political Reviews, I kept a story in this line, and the year before that. So if Mr Klaver indicates that he has never heard this, then either he has not listened to me properly or I have failed to convey it. But this is a vision based on which I've been politically engaged for years. Then that formation. To this end, the situation we have now reached is a result of the positioning of many parties, all of which have made choices understandably from their own perspective. The same goes for the CDA, and I support that choice. But there are also other parties that have made choices. They have led to an impasse. That impasse was that no majority could be formed. At the moment, informant Remkes is looking at whether and how to form a minority cabinet. I hope that we will be able to continue to do so in a fruitful way next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u128	I will not turn it into a formation debate, but if you hear this vision about where to go with the Netherlands, that does not require cooperation of the CDA with the VVD but cooperation of the CDA with left-wing parties here in Parliament. You'd almost say, what do we need the VVD for in a next cabinet? But the important thing is that we take those steps. It is true that Mr Heerma has spoken more often about this vision. I heard a very different sound from Mr Hoekstra, a much more right-wing sound, in the campaign. I see changes in that now. My question to Mr Heerma is therefore: what are we going to do about this budget? I've heard plans. I have seen, for example, that corporate tax in the CDA's plans is also rising. Is that one of the things that we can start with now, so that we can bring back the money that is now going to the big companies and then, above all, back to the shareholders, to society, with which beautiful things can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u129	I am also going to respond to the first part of Mr Klaver's speech, even though his question was not included. Much of what I have contributed to the last two General Political Reviews has become part of our electoral programme. This also applies, in terms of new social contract, to ideas of my former colleague and still colleague Omtzigt. Everyone at the CDA Congress has also seen our party leader convey a Christian Democratic story that is also based on this. I therefore reject the suggestions put forward by Mr Klaver. But when it comes to now, here, in concrete terms, when dealing with the budget of a outgoing cabinet, I am going to set out my priorities immediately in the second half of my term. I have already posted them by asking my questions to Mrs Hermans, in her term. But with me there's always business to do, and that's always been the case in the missionary period, with lots of parties, from left to right if there are any good proposals that I can support as a CDAer in my conviction. But I'd like to add one thing. No, I'm saying two things. One: that's not limited to 900 million. There is no question of this: there is a budget that everyone has to stay away from, but of 'here is a present, fight for it'. It's serious money that we can do serious things with in the next few days. But I'm not gonna draw on every cross either. I walk around in politics long enough to know that the positive part of the story is always easy. I'm going to do an exhortation on my own group. It is about the previous group, by the way, so it is fairly safe, after Mrs Hermans has done all the debodies here. Once in my own group, I think it was about five years ago; I apologise to those colleagues who are no longer here to make an inventory of what they wanted and an inventory of what they had to pay for. There was some discrepancy between the first and second lists, including in that group. It is always much easier in politics to get consensus on what we are going to spend money on. How we're gonna pay it is a lot harder. It is more difficult for individual parties, but it is even more difficult to reach a common consensus on it. I haven't seen a PvdA and GroenLinks counter-budget yet. My omission, perhaps. Maybe he'll come and I'll check it out. I appreciate the fact that opposition parties are making a counter-budget. But when I look at the counter-budget of the SP, there are choices in there that I really think are unwise. You have a lot of proposals, but I think there is 14.3 billion in burdens in business. I think that's really unwise. If we say here "we're gonna do that, we're gonna do that, and we're gonna do that," we're gonna ask if we can find cover with each other. I think that's complicated in practice. In this debate, I am open to looking at proposals for which we can find a majority, but in a way that is properly covered and can also carry a majority. If you don't, we're going to present the bill to our children. I don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u131	My question was about a cover proposal. We are spending money with each other all the time. I foresee big problems when we think later: how do we pay for this? I ask the CDA if they are prepared to look at the Vpb as a cover proposal. I see that it is being increased to 27% in the electoral programme. Unlike the cabinet plans now, which raise the first share of corporation tax, I now see that this is not happening in the CDA's plans. There's serious money to get rid of. In this House of Representatives there is a majority in favour of this, in the light of the electoral programmes. So if Mr Heerma were to say here that he is willing to look at it, we would be free to pay a lot of billions of dollars to pay for all those wishes, which are also wide here, in a decent way, both to future generations and to business now. Is Mr Heerma prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u132	I think it was Mr Klaver who asked Mr Jetten whether, for example, we could look at tax evation, tax evasion. I see Mrs Ploumen looking; she will probably be the one who asked the question. I think we should look at those types of cover proposals. I am not very enthusiastic about this, but that is also because I have seen in the counter-budgets that it is being sought in the huge amounts of billions of taxes imposed on business. But Mr Klaver's question is whether I am prepared to look into it. I'm willing to look at anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u133	I asked a question. He wanted to look at that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u134	And then Mrs. Ploumen won't interrupt anymore, will she?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u135	Then he's not gonna interrupt anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u136	Yes. Oh, I saw Mrs Ploumen nodding yes. I thought you might be doing her interruption, but I hear you're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u137	I like it, because this is a good, substantive debate. This does matter. This is about how much space is here tomorrow. For it is now said that these billions, 14 billion, increase in the burden on business next year may not be the most convenient step to take now. But that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about increasing corporation tax by 2% and closing a gap in corporation tax by 500 million. That's what I was talking about. That's consistent with the CDA's election program. The very specific question I would like to answer is whether Mr Heerma is prepared to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u138	I am going to listen carefully to Mr Klaver's proposals. I am not going to say now in my term what I will and will not support. I am prepared to look at anything where we can come to a majority. But you're asking me a little too much of a carte blanche. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u139	I'm gonna keep going at this point. First of all, I would also like to thank Mr Heerma for his speech. I'd say that's how I remember the CDA. As far as community spirit and the fight against hypercapitalism are concerned, I agree with Mr Klaver's question. I think we are all in agreement about this, not all of us, but at least Mr Heerma and I think that hypercapitalism really needs to be curbed. There are different ways of doing that. In any case, the starting point is to put people first and not the multinationals. Is the increase in the Vpb, which is indeed contained in various electoral programmes, not an appropriate means to use for this redistribution of the cake? Yeah, I'm looking for space, too. I am glad to hear it, and I hope I have heard it correctly, that Mr Heerma says: it is more than Mrs Hermans' billion. Again, in the light of the whole budget, that is a very small part. We're looking for space because we want to solve problems. That is how I would like to understand Mr Heerma. Then we have a concrete suggestion on how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u140	I am going to listen to Mrs Ploumen's specific suggestion and take it seriously. I also said where my concern is. This concerns the general principle that spending is easier than covering, especially in order to get consensus on it. I do not think it is wise to unilaterally raise all kinds of taxes for business. Not at all, but not at the moment. I am really going to take a serious look at the proposals from all the parties here. By the way, I am also going to make my own proposals. Of course, they are our priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u141	I'm going to listen to them again with interest, of course. Mr Heerma talks about space for society, space for social initiatives, and he says away with hypercapitalism. In this context, we must note that, in the whole package presented with the Millions Note, economic growth returns to large companies and not to the people. This is an additional argument in support of Mr Heerma's speech. We will soon agree if we speak fine words, but of course it is also about how we ensure that this redistribution really is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you for the appreciation for my lovely words. At the same time, I must disappoint the PvdA, because although social democracy and Christian democracy overlap, there is also a fundamental difference. It is true that I see not only the market as the problem, but that the government is often part of the same problem. Where the PvdA often looks at the government as a solution to the market, I look for the society that gets the best of both worlds, which is often the opposite now. An overly liberal market, where everything is known the price but of nothing the value, but also a government that tries to manage a society in such a way that its own initiative and beautiful cooperative initiatives are not only given the opportunity not only because they have to operate with earning models, but also because the government gets in the way with all kinds of rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u143	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u144	My quest today is to make sure there's just money in people's wallet. That has nothing to do with a restraining government. That is what the government is for: to ensure that people can reap the benefits of their work. When I look at the presentation that this outgoing cabinet gave yesterday, I note that it is not. So once again my appeal to Mr Heerma.............................................................................................................................................................. This also applies to Christian democracy and not only to social democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u145	On this, I believe. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand and then to Mr Azarkan. I do, however, have a request to keep the interruptions shorter and more concise. Then we can do a few more people for dinner break. Mrs. Ouwehand of the PvdD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u146	Thank you. I heard Mr Heerma explain his vision and I thought again, just like last year: you can hear that we studied together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u147	We found out last year that was a very long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u148	It was a long time ago, but maybe it's a relevant fact that we weren't in the fraternity either, unlike some others. I hear and recognize that we were there together in the college benches of the Free University.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u149	However interesting, Mrs Ouwehand, I would like to ask if you could put your question a little shorter and more concisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u150	I was just about to pick up some anecdotes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u151	That may be very nice for dinner, but let's now answer the questions more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u152	It was an introduction to say that I was very much in agreement with him and that I liked Mr Heerma talking about an era of change. I think we're living in a change of era. That has been going on for a long time in society and now the question is: can we help it? So much for that. My analysis is that the Rutte Cabinets, and before that also the CDA, are not trying to help that change in society, but to sabotage it far and wide. People who contribute to the climate, people who do their best to live a little more sustainable, have to see that their government says: well, we're doing another airport in the middle of the climate crisis; let's cut down those trees at Amelisweerd; let's give the fossil industry permanent financial benefits. I would think that a party like the CDA, with stewardship at the heart of its values, should reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u154	And I agree with Mr Heerma that we need to help society. That means we have to stop sabotaging the good developments that we see there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mrs Ouwehand is concerned with two subjects, and one of them has just been the subject of a debate with Mr Jetten. That might give me a chance to put down something of a difference of vision. Then I'm going to answer the second part. Mrs Ouwehand just said to Mr Jetten that her criticism of the climate tables was that the government could not throw it over society. Those were about her words. My criticism, when I think about these climate tables, is that society may not have been sufficiently involved and that there was not enough ownership in that society. A city like Amsterdam, a city the CDA likes to criticize, has recently set up a climate council, really for citizens to participate actively. I'm sure Mrs Ouwehand didn't mean to throw society over the fence. No, I think that society itself should be more involved, because a lot of people will benefit if they experience more perspective of action. That's one. Two. When it comes to climate, I must confess that I personally have less sense of this than several people here in this Chamber. I am pleased that Mr Klaver has chosen Mr Jetten for very long discussions on this, but it is a fact that we young CDAs have a lot of knowledge and a lot of energy in it. That was also congratulated by Mr Jetten; thank you, I will pass it on. It has also been seen in our party. Both Derk Boswijk and Henri Bontenbal have deliberately stepped forward on behalf of the group in order to move forward in the field of nitrogen and climate. They show that these are not subjects, of which we are only stuck in 'if there is only support', but that we are also prepared to take a step forward and still say: but it is important that there is support for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u156	I certainly agree that there is a difference with the Climate Agreement, which puts the private interests of business against civil society organisations, who, on behalf of all of us, must defend the importance of a viable planet. It's not going well. The Climate Council is something else. That's what we're here for. At the beginning of Mr Heerma's speech, we had a little debate on the CDA's vision. Then what does the CDA choose? I can see that there is movement, indeed, mainly on agriculture. I'm gonna ask you about that later. But for the climate, even if you have no knowledge of the details, can't the CDA look away from people who are worried? There have been grandparents here for three years demonstrating the climate every week. People make choices in their own lives and feel completely abandoned by a government that says: if you do your tire pressure, a trip strip and a heat pump, then we open Lelystad Airport and then we cut down those trees at Amelisweerd, because we want even more asphalt. You must dare to make such choices, otherwise you will not help that society, but you will sabotage the good intentions and commitment of the citizens we need to solve this climate and biodiversity crisis together. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u157	In any case, I do not think that Mrs Ouwehand, with what she says, does justice to what the Demissionary Cabinet lays down in the area of climate. On the right side there are all kinds of parties who find it a disgrace, because it is not politically poor enough. But serious choices are being made and serious steps taken. That is under pressure from court rulings, that is true, but serious steps are being taken to do things and to achieve this green industrial policy. This industry, the biggest polluters, which Mr Jetten also mentioned, is the greatest profit that can be made. There's a lot of ways to do that. You can do that by driving them away with taxes, or by helping them. Tata Steel was already mentioned to be the cleanest steel producer in the world. One way to do that is to build one of those hydrogen backbones. That is what serious money is being allocated for. I do not agree with the right-wing parties who say that it is all nonsense and that it is a disgrace that this is happening. I think it's very sensible that it should happen. But I also disagree with Mrs Ouwehand who pretends nothing is happening. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u158	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u159	I was a bit afraid of it: now it gets a bit ugly in the tail. The CDA Group is now pointing to the pressure on the right. She has caused it herself by always making a serious mockery of climate policy. The cabinet must simply abide by the rule of law, whether it likes it or not on the right. Demissionary or missionary. This cabinet, with the CDA in it, slaps judgments from the judge. So I think something needs to be done. But don't expect us to applaud and say: well, how good of the CDA and the cabinet that something is finally happening for the climate. It should have been long ago! If that is the level, the CDA with the Party for the Animals has a permanent apple to peel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u160	Actually, that's what I'm counting on. I also look forward to it every time, especially when you quote our collective time at the VU every time. I do not have the impression that anything I can do can close the discussion between our parties. Since Mrs Ouwehand does not want to close up ugly, I will try to do justice to what she says. Last year, during the General Political Reviews, I talked about vetocracy. That was because Mr Baudet was talking about a dikastocracy. He thought it was a disgrace that the judges here decide the place. I have reflected that judges will eventually enforce things if politics cannot achieve majorities. So I am also reflective of the role that we ourselves play in this process, which the judge has now said we need to take serious steps. We must avoid this veto on many more issues. We don't have to look far west of the Channel to see when you only get majorities to stop something. This eventually led to a years of Brexitdebacle, where voting after a vote only achieved minorities. That is something we must all avoid, in many areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u161	I notice that cooperation is better if you share a basis with each other. I just wanted to touch on this. I also studied at the VU. Maybe that'll help. I thought it was a good story and a good basis, especially now that Mr Heerma has dusted off core values such as stewardship, charity and solidarity. About the latter, I have a question, looking at how the plans work out for people who have the hardest. Someone in welfare, a single mother or father, is going down 6 euros a month in these plans. People who earn €115,000 a year, such as a Member of Parliament, will receive 14 euros. I do not think that is a matter of solidarity. Can we look at that? Can we change that so it's the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u162	I am very sorry to disappoint Mr Azarkan because we studied together at the VU. I'm gonna give you an honest answer anyway. I'm not the biggest fan of purchasing power cards myself. That is also known in my party. In the task we have now, it is very important that you stand for solidarity. That is indeed one of the core values. But saying that 'he gets so much euro and so much euro' is the top priority in politics has in the past led to budgetary treatment in Social Affairs where it was only about a quarter more or less. I remember a CDA minister talking about a robinhood tax. Or no, I think it was GroenLinks who brought that up with him. Given the major challenges we face and the question of what we should invest our money on, I would opt for housing. I'd choose to bet the money to get the landlord's tax down. It takes a lot more than that. As soon as I get to the second half of my speech, I will say something about that. I think we'll do more to get people to keep money in their pockets, but also at all, to make sure they can get their lives in order. That would be my priority. At the same time, for everyone, I am always open to good proposals that actually solve a problem or those that are difficult to achieve. But I want to be honest. On the assignment we have here, housing is given my first priority, in addition to climate, which we have just talked about, and addressing security, which I shall come up with. I call it Hermans' billion. Or was it Hermans' 900 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u163	It's not for me or-or. I believe that we should indeed do a great deal about housing. There have been too few plans for this in recent years. There were separate measures, which, in addition, did not achieve anything. We have discussed in debates a kind of delta plan, central government direction and fiscal adjustments. We can do both. I find this difficult when I talk to people who are having a hard time. I'm talking about people who couldn't do groceries because of the premium affair. They had to save up to go to the movies. I find this difficult to explain to the weakest people, people who are on welfare. Of course, we must do everything we can to solve the major issues, but the economy is rising by 4% and we are taking EUR 6 per month from the most vulnerable. I don't think I can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u164	I would like to say to Mr Azarkan that we have the next few months to see what proposals we can make to improve things. The same applies to subjects that affect Social Affairs. There's something I didn't have time to get into enough depth to give it a place in my text. Mr Azarkan has led me to say something about it. There's a lot of criticism of President Biden for all kinds of reasons. Last weekend I read an article in which one of his greatest successes was cited. That is the fight against child poverty. Again, I haven't been able to get into this enough to figure out exactly what it's all about. The article outlined how Biden manages to create a plan to reduce child poverty. It's very big in America, so I think the bar is low to improve on it. Child poverty in the Netherlands is by far the largest of all age groups. We can look together at what President Biden is doing. In my opinion, this lies partly in the targeted support of families with children. Then perhaps we can do something in the corner where Mr Azarkan is looking for it, by coming up with proposals and ideas that will enable us in the Netherlands to "take a good example" to shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u165	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u166	That's a fine proposition. We are also very close to Mr Peters, who has done a lot on this dossier in recent years. Very important, I think. I've seen kids go to school without food myself. I saw teachers in Rotterdam who wanted to pay for the food out of their own pocket. It is indeed a major problem: 400,000 children in poverty. So if we can at least make it bearable that way, I'd like to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u167	I shall now give the floor to Mr Klaver. I suggest that Mr Heerma finish his story afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u168	I fully agree with Mr Heerma that we should not stare blindly at purchasing power. If you're gonna send that, we're gonna throw a lot of money into the system that's never gonna end up with people. For example, the energy bill is in those purchasing power cards through inflation. But the energy bill is rising much faster, so it doesn't say that much. That does not mean that we should not do anything about the reality of people's poverty. One of the things we are going to see next year is that the energy bill is going to rise enormously because of the gas price. So I'm not saying that we're going to steer on purchasing power cards, but that we're going to steer on reality. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that we should come up with a proposal to pay for a lot of people through the energy tax? If we do not do so, the people with the smallest incomes in the most drafty rental homes will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u169	I cannot fully see Mr Klaver's proposal here. It does sound like raising taxes for business. There is a risk that we will drive companies away, which is ultimately not good for the prosperity of this country. But I want to take a serious look at the proposal he's making. What I do like about the cabinet plans, for example about the SDE, is that it is not through the energy bill, but through the general funds. I think that is a step towards what Mr Klaver wanted earlier. I'm gonna look at his proposals and take them to me. I can't do that here from the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u170	There's got to be something wrong with me. When we talk about matters here, I constantly hear: I have to study them first. But we are standing here debating with each other. So it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u171	We are at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u172	Mr Klaver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u173	So it's nice if something comes back to that. I say: let us make sure that the energy bill goes down via the energy tax. This means we're gonna give the citizens something. That's right. I would like to finance this by, for example, making large consumers pay something, but you can also choose other forms of financing. That's what the conversation's about. I'd like to know: is this a problem for the CDA? Does the CDA see the major problem for the coming year that the energy bill is going to be so high that the children of the families who are already struggling are going to pay the bill? And are we gonna do something about that? Or does the CDA perhaps have an alternative to what I propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u174	In any case, I say to Mr Azarkan, who made me say something that I did not intend to say, that I think child poverty is a very serious problem. I would very much like to look into what we can do about it. If it is about the families that Mr Klaver is talking about, there is also a very big problem with the energy bill and with insulation. How do you make sure people don't have to burn a lot? I believe that Christian Union, GroenLinks and CDA have also put forward proposals for this, and the government has also made funds available for this. That may also be a way of combating the problem. With regard to Mr Klaver's specific proposal, I will look into it and study it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u175	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u176	Isolate. If we had done that before, there wouldn't be that problem right now. So we have to do that now, because that won't be resolved for a few years. For next year there will be a very big bottleneck. I warned here a few years earlier about the rising energy bill, while the cabinet did nothing with it. If we don't do that now, a lot of people will be in trouble. I am glad that you say that you are going to study it, because this is where the Chamber has to take action, otherwise the purchasing power of many families will be ruined. Not in statistics, just in real life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u177	In any case, I agree that we should look less at these statistics and more at the real thing, because that is where the drama of purchasing power is all too often. What's in it and what's not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u178	You will continue your speech. Then, at the end, there is an interruption by Mr Eerdmans. But finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u179	Save the best for last. Mr Jetten also referred to it: this is a poor budget, largely from a outgoing cabinet. "Three-double missionary" he reported. But reality doesn't stand still. We have just talked about judicial decisions, but also about the enormous housing crisis in which we are living and about undermining the rule of law. They're forcing us to make choices. I think it is right to say that although some parties do not agree with this, the cabinet, despite its missionary status, still makes the choice to pay for a number of very important matters. I'll walk them by, Mr. Chairman. I'll start housing. A great deal has been said about this in this debate. These are my third General Political Reviews and this has always been the biggest topic of my input because we are really having a national housing crisis. I do not agree with the parliamentarians who say that nothing has been done so far, because something has been done in recent years, but it is not enough. We really need to get rid of the buzz about the housing market, and we need to get back to real housing policy. As Mr Omtzigt said, it is in the Constitution and it is our duty to do so. This takes a lot of work. Several of my colleagues have already been responsible for this. As far as I'm concerned, we need a new Ministry of Housing and Spatial Planning. We need to abolish the landlord's tax. The maximum rental limit in the housing valuation system should be increased. We have to deal with excesses in real estate. For starters, much more affordable homes and housing combinations for seniors need to be built. The SP always talks about that. We have to give the corporations the space and the assignment. As far as I am concerned, a billion dollars is a good step or a good step for the outgoing cabinet. It can ensure that the path taken by Minister Ollongren over the last year and a half can continue. But as far as I'm concerned, there should be more. Therefore, the CDA considers lowering the landlord's tax, in addition to the money, an important step. We have now also pulled forward the money that will be released in ten years' time with the Housing Impulse. Suppose it succeeds in getting a majority here for it with a few hundred million dollars the more, the better it is to get the landlord tax down, is the cabinet prepared to pull that money back forward for those years? You don't always have a few hundred million a year, but you'll soon be talking about billions in the next year or two years. Then really can work like a flywheel to loosen up housing projects. As far as I am concerned, I am talking about the billion that is already there, because I can ask the cabinet about that. That extra housing impulse really needs to reach young people and start-ups. How is the cabinet going to ensure that the money that is in this outgoing budget goes there too? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to safety. I was just talking about this with Mr Hermans. It is right that hundreds of millions should be allocated to tackling undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u180	Please continue. You've had very few interruptions, but we've just agreed that you'll finish your story. Mr Eerdmans has also waited. Then I'll give you the floor, Mr Van Haga. I call Mr Heerma to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u181	I'm kind of in the middle of something here, Mr. Chairman. The Italian journalist Roberto Saviano said in the NRC that the Netherlands is one of the most criminal countries in the world and is Europe's money laundering business. Sewer research in both Amsterdam and Rotterdam shows that 40,000 lines of coke are being sniffed a day, says Rotterdam's Chief Commissioner Westerbeke. That's not small. Choices have consequences, including for those who think a line of innocent entertainment is. It's not like that. It's your contribution to a tough, unrelenting criminal underworld. More money for detection, more money for prevention, especially in the weakest neighbourhoods that suffer most, and more money for intelligence services are good steps taken in this budget. Unfortunately, this summer we have also had to see that extra money for guarding and security is more needed than ever. But I have an additional proposal. I have just discussed this during an interruption with Mr Hermans. We've been talking for a while about how to pick more effectively. At the moment we are also looking at how you can pick not the person, but the goods, the business. That could lead to us taking away many more from criminals. I agree with Mayor Halsema of Amsterdam that this will hurt the criminals. You hurt them by hitting them in their wallet and then you show them that crime doesn't pay. This is also important in a society where children have been offered the first jobs for the criminal drug underworld since 10 years in some neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. My proposal is that these goods, and not only the money, but also the goods and the premises that are taken away, be returned to society, to the neighbourhoods where the problems are. There are pilots running right now. That is what proposals have been made in the Chamber. I think the last motion on this was from the VVD Group. Pilots will begin both in Schiedam and in Tilburg. But I'd like to move on. I would say: we should just do this; we should set up a fund. So that money should not go to the state treasury, but it should go back to those quarters. Then we can create a solid basis for prevention, because young people are offered a good alternative. Mr. Chairman. Then climate. I have just spoken to Mr Klaver about this and I would like to mention once again the name of Mr Henri Bontenbal. It's in my line, too. In the very short time in which he was allowed to be a CDA member, he worked very hard with our WI to write a new climate vision. That is an important step for us. I think that is very much needed, because 2030 and 2050 seem far away, but are close. The climate forecast is real and urgent. I think it is possible in the coming years to strengthen the transition that has been made here, too, that not nothing has happened. We opt for an approach that focuses on green industrial policy, to strengthen the green earning capacity of the Netherlands together with companies. In addition, I gave that just as much as I gave it to a good national isolation programme. As far as Mr Klaver is concerned, that will be too late. He's been pleading for it for a long time, but it's coming now. Our parties, together with the Christian Union, have taken an initiative in this. I have already indicated that this is how I will win some speaking time again, that I think that the initiative from Amsterdam for such a climate council is a very good idea. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it looks at that. Isn't this an instrument that could be used in many more places? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the block for a new social contract. Restoring trust in the rule of law is an important priority in this Chamber. I would also like to ask Mr Omtzigt, who has just been referred to Parliament's questions on this subject, what is the state of play with regard to the implementation of various motions for resolutions tabled in the Chamber. An important step that has been discussed for a long time has been taken by spending money on strengthening social law. It is good that real money is being allocated for this, but it is not just about money if we want to strengthen our rule of law and our governance culture. That takes more than that. A motion from my colleague, Mr Kuik, was also adopted this summer. It calls for plans to be drawn up around a new social contract. Part of this was the start of constitutional review. What is the state of play? And when can we expect proposals from the cabinet? Here too, Mr Azarkan has just tempted me to quote something that I did not have in my speech, and I would like to mention something else that I happened to have been reminded of yesterday. In my opinion, in 2019, if he was not going to nod, I would not have made a proposal with him to look at the General Administrative Service, its turnover rate and the fact that too much of a management culture has arisen. My argument at the time was: could we build the Delta Works now? Could there be official knowledge to do so? An investigation has been carried out on the basis of that motion. That investigation, I had missed it, came at the time of the corona crisis, in the run-up to the elections. That research is from the ABD itself. That says about: we're doing quite well; we need to get a little more strategic. Sometimes improvements have been made to Mr Omtzigt's speech earlier in an interruption, not great and compelling, but boring and technical. If you don't bring down the orbital speed of that ABD, if you don't replace the job-hopping of managers with real specialist knowledge and skills, then the government won't function better. I would nevertheless like a reflection from the cabinet on this report by the ABD and the research that has been done. Besides, I'm sorry I missed it until yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to go to geopolitics. We have seen in recent weeks, but also in the past year, how geopolitically back from never left. It shows how our world has become increasingly less stable and less predictable. Corona was a global crisis where no one could take leadership. We have seen, with the sudden departure from Afghanistan, that the new US President continues the line of his predecessor and opts for a more limited but, above all, different role on the world stage. Nationalism, protectionism and authoritarian regimes seem to be on the offensive, while the free West is increasingly on the defensive. In these uncertain times, we, as Europe, will have to stop our pants more often and together, both economically and militaryly and politically. In doing so, we must also invest in our safety and resilience. Last year, I was just quoting Mr Segers; I often do something with Mr Segers of the Christian Union....................................................................................................................................................... That followed from a WRR report about our lack of vision of the unsafe world. Such a safety planning agency should identify, analyse and proactively identify all risks, so that we are not so often attacked by security crises, whether it is a war, a pandemic, economic risks, cyber crises, food crises and so on. Last Monday, my conclusion was that it is necessary, but we are not going to do it. I disagree. The research shows that when it comes to our internal and external security strategy, the long-term risks are not well recognised and are in fact always faced with the delusion of the day and short-term thinking. Moreover, as it says, there is a lack of integrated political direction and a lack of real strategic lines. As a result, we are increasingly being robbed by previously unplanned security threats. Governing is forward-looking. Therefore, this opinion recommends that a national security council be set up. This is actually also reflected in the 2017 WRR report. The WRR has already argued in favour of this and this research now also indicates that it is necessary to look more strategically, more comprehensively, more in the long term at our security. As far as I am concerned, this is urgently needed. Again, it may be boring and technical, but it's about our safety. I am curious to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to both the WRR report on this issue and the investigation that came last Monday. Mr. Chairman. I want to go to the subject of economic security. After all, safety also affects our economic situation. The Netherlands has traditionally been a manufacturing country. In recent decades, however, we have seen more and more production moving from the Netherlands to the edges of Europe or to China and India. In the long term, this represents a huge loss of knowledge, craftsmanship and innovation for certain regions. This also makes us increasingly dependent on countries on the other side of the world. This vulnerability was very clear during the corona crisis, when the supply of medical devices, for example, stopped. That is why we, as CDA, have tried several times in the past year to put the subject of reshoring on the political agenda, i.e. to bring business activities back to the Netherlands or to provide additional business activities by making production that is now taking place elsewhere in the Netherlands. This is not only sensible from an economic point of view, but also from a strategic point of view, as part of a strategic regional industrial agenda. The cabinet rescued SMART Photonics from Eindhoven from foreign hands for a reason. It did this in order to prevent our manufacturing industry from becoming a toy of global crises, trade wars and geopolitical interests. But here too, one of the motions we tabled on this issue has led to an ESC opinion. I'm going to summarize that conclusion again. The conclusion from the ESC was that reshoring is mainly a strategic consideration of companies themselves, in which there is actually no role for the government. "We shouldn't expect too much of it" was still there. Well, with that approach, I do not think we should expect too much of it. So I do not entirely agree with this conclusion of the ESC either. I think it's a missed opportunity and a limited look. Perhaps if you only think of the literal concept of reshoring, so that it is offshored and goes back, but you can also look at it much wider. New production has also been set up elsewhere in the world, which could well take place here, with, for example, a role for social work companies. I would like to have a reflection on this from the Prime Minister. Should we not pursue a more active industrial policy in the Netherlands, in which reshoring is not interpreted narrowly but broadly? I am also curious when the ESC will present its additional opinion on the strengthening of industry in the Netherlands. This subject also affects the labour market. I cannot go all the way around the labour market, even though it is not one of the priorities of this outgoing budget. After all, the division in our labour market continues and is also a driver of the erosion of solidarity in our society. At the bottom of the labour market there are still young people trapped in a permanent carousel of flex constructions that offer insufficient pay, security and protection to build a life. This calls for a thorough reform of the labour market along the lines of the Borstlap report. At the moment, however, good steps are being taken. It is interesting to see that a trade union such as the FNV makes the fight against flex constructions a central point in their collective bargaining. At the moment, the court rulings are stacking up towards platforms that are said to be: you can call themzzp'ers, but they are just employees. These are good steps and we need to continue with this, because it is really a problem. As far as I am concerned, continuing training is the way forward. After corona, too, you can see this strange paradox that some companies have to stop production because they cannot find enough staff, while there is a unused workforce of 1 million people, a third of whom are young people aged 15 to 25. Mr. Chairman. I come to a conclusion and then Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van Haga can ask their question. In recent years, I have repeatedly argued for healthy patriotism and the binding value that, for example, a national historical museum can have. I did so together with Mrs Marijnissen, also bearing in mind her father's original initiative on this point. It is a pity that Mr Jetten has just left the Chamber, because what struck me is that Mr Kaag in her much-discussed HJ Schoo-lecture, there Mr Jetten spoke about an inclusive Netherlands, in which shared values are central: our hospitality, our empathy, our tolerance and our entrepreneurial spirit. Those words spoke to me and I share her hope that patriotism can grow on this ground. Not as a sort of exclusive nationalist agenda, but precisely to bring about an inclusive patriotism. A strong society based on shared values is not created by itself. At this time of individualism and consumerism, it may even require something of swimming against the current. As far as my group is concerned, this investment is worth it. This includes, for example, offering a social service to our young people to show that it is valuable to do something for someone else. I really think that it could be worthwhile if we set up a national historical museum in a way that conveys inclusive patriotism. I know this HJ Schoo reading has been criticized a lot, but at the end I found this really valuable. That can only be done if we show everyone both the gold-edged and the black pages of our history. That can be binding in society. Together with all the other good proposals that we have made here as CDA, but also others, we can build together on a country that can meet all the challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u183	You'll have to wait for your word, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u184	Yes, because we have Mr Eerdmans first, then Mr Van Haga and then Mr Jetten. I think Mr Jetten wanted to respond to the latter, but then the momentum is gone. Would you mind, Mr. Eerdmans, if Mr. Jetten could just... No? Okay, then Mr. Eerdmans goes. I get it, too. He's been waiting a long time, so Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u185	Every moment, I'd say. And of yours, we've already had our arrival. The applause just didn't rise from the box here on the left, the cake blocks. It was former Prime Minister Van Agt who said: we don't bend to the left and we don't bend to the right inside the CDA? But the bend to the left is very warmly received here. Yeah, again. That's not so weird when you especially heard the beginning of your story about climate, the transition and the challenges we face. Now, of course, I'm here to move you a little to the right again. I read the CDA program once. When it comes to asylum policy, you have said that it must be assessed individually, it must be humane, but it must also be supported. If the Netherlands is to be able to support asylum policy, we must also be strict with those who are not allowed to be here. We need to get them out of the country. I tabled a motion on criminalising illegality in April. It actually makes sense: what you can't do, you can't do. So being illegal in the Netherlands, that's not allowed. At that time, you and your group had the decisive vote. I remember very well that I spoke to a colleague of yours about it at the end. He said, "Yes, we couldn't do that, we couldn't do that." That was not assessed with heart, but it was actually assessed with regard to a number of other options in the Chamber, namely the alliance with the left. I would ask you straight forward: where does the CDA stand when it comes to a humane but strict, just asylum policy? Do you not agree with me, as many Dutch people think: yes, asylum policy must be fair, but it must also be strict; for those who are not allowed to be here, should there also be a way back to the country of origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u186	I can't go around a bit of history here either, although it goes a little bit less than my study time at VU. I started working for the CDA group for the first time in 2001. During that period, I think Mr Eerdmans had just left as an employee of the CDA. Since then, Mr Eerdmans himself may have turned a little to the right, but the society story I have kept here should appeal to him from his Christian Democratic roots as a middle story and not as a left story. I think he's got enough CDA awareness to back that up. As far as migration is concerned, we have an election programme which I would call strict and fair. There are also elements in this that we need to get more control over migration and that we need to take steps together in Europe. There is also a line in this: that is the line we have, that you also have to work on return, so that people who are not entitled to it do not stay. I think that is even in the much cited document of VVD and D66. There were not only things that I agree with, but that movement seems to be made in that too. We have argued in the past for criminalisation of illegality and we have then argued in favour of criminalising the refusal to cooperate in your own departure, but we have also agreed in the coalition in the previous period on what we would and would not do and I usually keep to my commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u187	That's what's good for you, isn't it? You have to keep your appointments, but we're in new eras. An era of change or a change of era, it's just how you stand in it. I said to someone the other day, it's more of an era within an era in which we move here. Can I ask you something when we look at the future? You let go of the appointments and we'll go to a new cabinet, maybe a minority cabinet. Then where is the CDA on the point of illegality? Should people who are not allowed to stay here: bed, bath and bread? Should they stay in facilities, in churches? Or do you say: no, we have to be strict about this if we are to maintain our support under the overall asylum policy, so those people have to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u188	If you want to maintain support, you need a strict and fair asylum policy, but you also need warm integration, for example. You always have to give a place here to people who really need protection, but in order to be able to support them, people who have no right to stay here will have to return. We know how difficult it is to shape that in practice, but that is really necessary to maintain support for asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u189	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. And then we go to Mrs. Marijnissen. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Looks like we went back to work in cubes after all. Anyway, thank God things are moving faster now. Although, it's not happening fast at all. There was one block about living and was a block about climate. I wanted to say something about living, but of course that has a lot to do with the climate. Here is the chairman of the group of the CDA, who has been responsible for migration on the one hand, whether you agree with it or not, for the past ten years, and on the other hand, for stopping the volume of construction. That market is therefore partly disturbed by the CDA. And now I understand that the coalition parties, as far as there is a coalition left, all love the fact that 1 billion lousy euros are going to live there, but that is not going to fix the market. So on the one hand, we have that migration issue, and I am not going to ask you about it, because Mr Wilders has already done so, but on the other hand, I see all over the municipalities of CDA's interfering actions where permits are concerned. I am referring to the slowness, bureaucracy and not least to the problem of nitrogen. Can you tell me what you're gonna do with the billion to get those permits out a little faster? 'Cause now and then, you have licensing times of three, four and sometimes five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u191	I'm just trying to find out Mr Van Haga's question. I'm gonna start at the beginning. Former Minister Donner always said: I am enough Calvinist to always feel a little guilty about everything. But I also find it a little easy for Mr Van Haga to do such a style of politics, that because I spent several years in the Chamber for the CDA, all the problems are my fault. Then I would say: let Mr Van Haga himself come up with constructive proposals to resolve matters rather than just pointing to others. Then his question. If it's about that billion, I've asked the cabinet how to deal with it. Because I stand here as a member of the CDA to judge missionary plans of a cabinet, not to say here: that's what we're going to do with this. However, I do think that what Mr Van Haga came up with at the end of his speech was that the money could be used for this purpose. Because it's a billion dollars that's about housing deals. With these housing deals, Minister Ollongren has been able to unlock all kinds of stuck housing projects just in recent years, since we allocated EUR 2 billion, because there were financial bottlenecks. They could indeed have to do with nature or nitrogen, or with infrastructure, or with other things that led to a lot of procedures that could be solved with money. Mr Van Haga asks a specific question about the money that is now being released. I do not agree that a billion is nothing. It's not enough on the housing market. I also think that the landlord's tax should be reduced. I prefer to cancel it, but at least it should be lowered in order to free up more billions. But there can indeed be an impulse for faster, more affordable construction. This is going to help more people access an affordable home in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u192	In any case, Mr Heerma admits that EUR 1 billion is far from enough. It may be a nice drop on the glowing album, but we're not going to realize a million homes within a few years. That's just not gonna happen. Moreover, the government does not build houses at all and does not finance them, so that has to be done by the market. It is good that you indicate that the landlord levy should be removed, but what are you going to do to reduce the lead times for permits? Because I don't hear there yet a beginning of a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u193	Mr Van Haga says: the government does not build houses, the market must do so. But this is again the difference between the former VVD... I don't think the market should do that. I stand for a vision in which these housing companies are not just market players, but are part of society and should be part of a civil society that does this because they want to build good neighbourhoods with affordable rents, not to make profits. So I disagree with Mr Van Haga when he says: the government has no role in this, the market has to do it. No, there are also parties that do not just do things because they can become very rich. That...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u194	Mr. Van Haga, until... yes, excuse me, please finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u195	I do believe that this can help to speed up procedures, because some of these procedures... I have, by the way, put my hands on Mrs Marijnissen because of my father's brutality. I think that's been a great thing administratively. There are still elements in it that made it sensible. But a side effect of the policy followed is the following. Where there used to be officials and aldermen at municipal level who knew a lot about housing, that disappeared. In fact, if there's a good guy in there, project developers will buy them out as soon as possible. So that's gonna have to change. That also helps to shorten procedures. But that money actually helps. Many projects also take years, because there are financial bottlenecks or because people are suing construction projects, objecting because there are problems that are not being solved. That money can then help to solve it and a procedure will speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u196	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u197	Then we strongly disagree. Of course, the corporations have to build social housing. They have to build small, sober and lots of houses. That landlord's tax doesn't help. That billion ain't gonna make no difference. But I note that Mr Heerma intends, as a government, to run the entire housing market. I think that's an incredibly bad idea. But then, finally, a little bit about the climate. 7 billion is earmarked for climate change. We have all seen that in recent years it has gone into all kinds of stupid things: nitrogen, pfas, biomass plants, gas-free building, so on and on. But now there's a new biomass plant on the horizon and that's CSS: Carbon Capture and Storage. So we're going to put a lot of money into that, while every research has shown that it's just putting the horse behind the cart. It costs energy, it generates higher emissions and it is completely ridiculous to spend money on them. Would you agree with me that I have already asked Mr Wilders that we should be much better able to spend the 7 billion on your great, almighty government, the unitary state, which then still has to build these houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u198	Mr Van Haga has to draw the conclusions he wants, but his summary of my view of the housing he just gave did not make any sense at all. I would like Mr Van Haga to say again that he must do what he wants, and that he does not wrong the speech I am holding here. Was Mr Nijboer's phone or Mrs Ploumen's phone ringing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u199	Sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u200	Apology accepted. When it comes to climate, there's no bullshit happening. Serious things are happening that are needed to solve a serious problem. As I pointed out to Mrs Ouwehand, a court ruling has sometimes led to serious steps being taken, but these are necessary. I think Mr Jetten has just mentioned CCS. CCS is not a final solution. That's what you're doing right now, because right now it's helping to achieve the goals. I very much agree with the second part of Jetten's reply. Ultimately, the solution lies in creating the cleanest energy in the world, the cleanest steel industry. So that's in one of those hydrogen backbones. That's what we're gonna make serious money for. That is innovative, and that is something Mr Van Haga may still be able to address, with all his criticism of the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u201	I shall then give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt and then to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr Heerma began his speech with a piece on the shadows of individualisation. He mentioned a list. One of the issues I actually missed in that was migration and how we deal with refugees. In reply to Mr Eerdmans' question, Mr Heerma just said that migration policy must be rigorous but fair. That reminds me of the Moria deal a year ago. I wonder what that is exactly. Is that harsh or just? And how does that relate to the words of the shadows of individualization? Where exactly is the CDA in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u203	Perhaps Mr. Dassen... I am curious about his speech and how migration is the result of individualisation. I wonder if he can explain this in such a way. But when it comes to what happened in Moria, I actually wanted to make a bigger deal myself. But that's politics sometimes. If you have parties sitting together trying to come up with a solution, what comes out is less beautiful than what everyone would have wanted to do individually, but that is the most feasible thing. At that time, we made agreements with each other to bring people here. At that time, I took the initiative to talk to each other about this. I think that in this area, in broad terms, migration policy is so large, so complex and so European, that at a formation table you really have to look at all sides to give both severity and justice a place. So you have to be hospitable to anyone who needs protection. But you also have to make sure that the people who have no right to stay here also go back. I myself think that integration should also play an important role in this. That appealed to me in the piece that VVD and D66 wrote. So you don't have to make people who come here feel like you don't really want them here, so they're not gonna be part of that society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u204	I'd like to continue on the last piece. You do not want to give the people who come here the feeling that they are not wanted. But right now we're in a situation where asylum seekers, refugees, have to wait a year and a half in a centre before they get to talk. In the budget, hardly any money is released to shorten those waiting lists. I ask Mr Heerma if he is prepared to see if it is possible to get structural funding to get those waiting lists down at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u205	I think Mr Dassen is touching on the discussion which Mrs Hermans was wrong to say earlier that Mr Dijkhoff and I had tabled a motion on this, but that was my predecessor Buma. They jointly tabled a motion in 2018 on demography and demographic issues that also have to do with migration. If you take demography as the starting point for a broader debate in politics, I think that will give you an opportunity to have a more continuous debate on the issue that Mr Dassen is referring to about the yojo policy on migration. Because if it increases, then everything has to be built up, and when it decreases, locations are closed again, because you don't need them. These are debates in Canada that are held every year or biennially about the amount of migration that the Netherlands can cope with and on which we focus. By the way, the political debate here in the Netherlands is always just about asylum migration, but migration is about much more. There are many migratory flows, in which, in terms of housing, labour migration, that word has not yet been mentioned in this debate, in many municipalities, a much greater reason for problems in finding an affordable home than asylum migration. So if Mr Dassen comes up with a short-term proposal, I'm going to judge it, but for the long term, I think you should have the courage to talk about demographics, including migration. A start was therefore made in 2018. And in Canada, for example, they've been doing that for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u206	I would like to return to the subject on which Mr Heerma had an interruption debate earlier with Mr Klaver: what does the energy transition mean for the family wallet? We're pretty worried about that. Just look at what a family with three children paid for energy three years ago and now. Then you can see that both energy costs and energy taxes have increased. On balance one sometimes pays about €1,300 more. That could go up even further. My question is: how can the CDA contribute to ensuring that this energy transition remains a bit affordable for families?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u207	I think Mr Van der Staaij is right to make a point. Perhaps it was also at the heart of my predecessor Sybrand Buma's criticism of the discussions surrounding these climate tables. If, in order to achieve that transition, you are chasing people at a cost based on the idea that they will then show different behavior, which will then be saved on... If these people don't have an action perspective, you just let them pay more money. This increases the resistance to climate policy, to the need to reduce CO. In that debate, which became polarized, it was said at one point: without support, we can't do anything, but we have to do something. So, as I pointed out to Mr Klaver, I think it is very sensible that the cabinet should finance that extra money for SDE++ not from an increase in the energy bill, as it has been done in the past, but from the general funds. "SDE++," that's what I think it's called nowadays. Let me take a look at Mr Jetten to see if I'm right. He nods, and he knows it. I therefore believe that, in the context of the major climate issue, we should finance part of this transition with each other from general funds rather than laying down the costs for households that may have an operational perspective in the models, but not in the real reality. A final addition, Mr President, although I know that I am long of dust and you always call for it to be shorter. For example, however, additional funds are also being allocated to insulation programmes or to enable hybrid heat pumps. That money also helps to create an action perspective for households, with no cost to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u208	Finally, Mr President. I'm not really into this: if we do this little plan, we've solved all the problems. But it matters to me that you just come across and hear back what it already means to the energy bill. It is precisely if we want to maintain support for the energy transition that it is important to pay close attention in the coming period to what it means in concrete terms for households and families. And if I can understand Mr Heerma in such a way that we can continue to talk about this and keep a sharp eye on it, then I think that is a good thing for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u209	Thank you. That is a constructive attitude and a constructive question. I think it is also a valid point. I was on a radio broadcast with Mr Nijboer yesterday. In it came opinion research among the Dutch about climate. It confirmed the problem raised by Mr Van der Staaij as something that lives among the people. But it also emerged, and I would like to add this, that there is a lack of an action perspective. That's why I mentioned the climate council. I think it is very important that the climate transition is not poured out from ivory towers in The Hague, but that there is an action perspective, whereby people themselves can and want to contribute something, because the ownership that then arises will do much more for climate policy than something that has been conceived because it comes from a model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u210	I would like to thank Mr Heerma for his contribution. It was also a very nice Christian Democratic beginning. I recognized a lot. He talked about a society with much more "we" than "me." That appeals to me very much. I'm also trying to look over these considerations a little bit and figure out what else might come, where we could still get. This was also the subject of my interruptions to Mr Hermans. She said encouraging things, for example about reduction or reduction. abolition of the landlord's tax and tax reform. I would like to present to Mr Heerma one subject on which the CDA Congress has expressed itself quite firmly. That's the loan system. I believe that this is about the entire Chamber for the abolition of the loan system. There's one small Gaul village that's holding, but it's surrounded. I don't hear the CDAs making a murder pit out of their hearts pretty solid. That also appealed to me. I know congresses don't buy jets, but still. How seriously does the CDA take that resolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u211	I felt this coming from Mr Segers. He also has every right to do so, given everything he's done with coalition-Y on this subject for years. He did some of this together with my colleague Harry van der Molen, who is my former colleague at the moment, because he is sick at home, but fortunately he will soon return to coalition-Y. Mr Jetten said that he was pleased that there was still a lot of debate in D66. That's what we could see at the CDA Congress. Fortunately, our new CDJA president had many young people with him. The, I think, usually wise lesson that you shouldn't let yourself be saddled with breakpoints in a formation, went without a chance in our congress. In party democracy everyone also does their job. I can, moreover, strongly recommend this to those who are not organised internally. The assignment we have received about what we can and cannot come home with in a formation, should it take place and should we be part of it, is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u212	A small detail is that this formation has indeed yet to begin. That's true, yes. But I understand that the CDAs who spoke after the speaker made it quite eloquent clear why the loan system should really go away, can count on you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u213	Listen. I am glad that party congresses can take place again after corona, because I love those party congresses. But this was definitely a highlight of Congress. Mr Segers has probably been watching live. But when I thought "they'll be up by now," there were five more. They got 70% of the conference. That is not usually the percentage by which we lose our dissuaded resolutions. Look, I'm not at a negotiating table. But the assignment we got about what we can and can't come home with was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u214	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. You've come to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u215	Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u216	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To end guess, those are the people in the district of Moerwijk in The Hague, because the rats literally walk through their houses and through the streets. In Apeldoorn, people are currently forced to move from a small-scale care institution, the Crystal, when they don't want to. In Venray people are worried, because the doctor's office is closed and the nearest one is in Venlo, 30 kilometers away. The Rotterdamers from the Tweebos neighbourhood, but also people I visited in Uden, Wit Korea, and the people who live in the Jericho district in Amersfoort, are being chased out of their homes, because it is being demolished. The inhabitants of the Indian neighborhood in Groningen can no longer simply buy a normal house in their own environment, because the investors there buy all the houses. Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks and months, from which these examples come, we, together with these people, have struggled against deterioration in their neighbourhood. Together with those people, we have fought for improvements in their neighborhood. Because the neighborhoods I mention are often forgotten neighborhoods. They're forgotten neighborhoods. That's what people feel. The sad thing is that at the moment these forgotten neighborhoods are expecting very little, I would like to say, from this outgoing cabinet. At least what's left of the outgoing cabinet, I'd like to say. For I believe that by now half the posts are already manned by someone else. We've seen a minister become a common lobbyist on her own property. We have seen MPs just being pushed into the government team because new people were needed. Meanwhile, these neighborhoods are forgotten. Of course, it's not a natural phenomenon either. Also in these neighborhoods ten years of Rutte-politics is felt hard. That's hard to say. The politics of every man for himself, the politics of division, the politics of private wealth and public poverty is felt there too. Whatever is felt there is inequality. I've talked about it a lot here. The capacity inequality in the Netherlands is high. The richest 10% of people in the Netherlands own two thirds of our total wealth. Two-thirds. So that means that 90% of the Netherlands, say all ordinary people, except the super rich, has to do it with a third of the wealth. That's not fair and that's why the SP wants an extra load on the super rich. But we also see the dichotomy in other places. We also see the dichotomy in that which is ours all. In care, education and safety. Take care of yourself. If your parents are going to dement, for example, you can, if you only have money, arrange for them to be taken care of at an excellent care farm. Then you must bring €2,000, €3,000 or €4,000 per month. Otherwise you'll just be on the waiting list of the nursing home at the corner, where the workload is high. Then education. I don't know, Mr. Chairman, if you've heard those commercials on the radio, but I'm really upset by it: "Would you like the best education for your child? Then opt for private education." Whenever I hear that commercial, I think: would there be one parent in the Netherlands who thinks: no, I don't want what's best for my child? Of course, all parents want the best for their child, but not all parents can pay €30,000 a year for, I'll just say, Luzac. We also see the division increase in safety. It's the poor neighborhoods where the most is broken into and where the most crime is. We know that. It is precisely the rich neighborhoods where people now put money together to hire a neighborhood watch, for example, or where they can secure their homes properly. In the poor neighborhoods, the district agent hardly has more time to be present in the neighborhood, where he is most needed. In all these areas we see the division under ten years of Rutte increase. I think it is particularly bitter that we are now standing here at a time when, fortunately, after a corona crisis that hopefully is at its end, the economy is going well. 3.5% growth, we heard. But a lot of people don't notice that at all. The minimum wage will not be increased. And it was precisely those crucial professions that were applauded in the Corona crisis, wasn't it? I remember. I remember when we suddenly had a list that appeared on Teletext, which I saw from crucial professions. There were the people who would come and make your electricity in the house if it didn't work. There were people there who cared. There were people who took care of logistics, even at the time of the corona crisis. There are professions that often have a background in the MBO, the MBO that we think is far too little appreciated, but also professions in which people often earn the minimum wage. The SP also advocates a higher minimum wage. On the basis of the party and election programmes, there should already be a majority in the Lower House today in order to take a first step at least. Mr. Chairman. If you've done such a practical education in the Netherlands and you don't make so much money, you'll generally die six years earlier. Six years earlier, dead! This means that even in the Netherlands class matters, including in health. I would like to know from the outgoing Prime Minister how he feels about that. At the same time, in the corona crisis, we saw a rise in the number of millionaires, even in the crisis. But the number of homeless people is also increasing. We see in the Netherlands that in the big cities one in four children goes to school without breakfast. At the same time, we see that the profits of large companies have increased in recent years. So that division is increasing. We don't think that's fair. This is why, in addition to a higher minimum wage, the SP also advocates the sharing of profits. We made a law for that. We'll discuss it here. This means that the large profits of companies will not only be distributed among the shareholders, but also in the workplace. Mr. Chairman. I'd also like to talk about care. Mrs Hermans has already mentioned the market in healthcare. We have the annual, yet famous interview of Hugo de Jonge in the newspaper, which then again every year advocates that market forces actually have no place in healthcare. We are of course very much in agreement with him. However, if we take stock of the situation, we have to note that this has not been fully achieved in this cabinet, as far as we are concerned, very little has been done. We really think that's what's going to happen now. We have our own alternative from the National Care Fund, without any risk. Its own risk causes a lot of people big problems, €385 per year. I would like to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister why he thinks it is fair that, for example, older people, who are relatively often in need of care, should draw up all this €385 in the first month of the year. Why does he even think that's fair? It is often sold under the fake argument of cost awareness. I was at the Erasmus MC a few weeks ago at a dentist who treats free people there one day a week who have no money to go to the dentist. She told me that dental problems cost the community in the Netherlands about 3 billion a year, because people stay home because they suffer from their teeth. Treating a hole, she told me, costs €48, but that will not be reimbursed if you are not covered by supplementary insurance. That is not in the basic package. She also said that the people she gets one day a week don't have any money for that. Their whole life is ruined. They have often lost their jobs and often lost their relationship because they have dental problems. If they are referred to the jaw surgeon, it will be reimbursed, but that treatment is of course many times more expensive. Apart from my question to the outgoing Prime Minister whether he considers such a risk to be social, my question is also: wouldn't it be much cheaper for all of us if we put that dental care back in the basic package? In the interrupting debates, it was already about healthcare salaries. We really think that our caregivers can't wait any longer. We could not find it in that 600 million, our adopted motion as a first step extra for the caregivers. The deficits are huge. We're gonna need extra staff. It is irresponsible to wait any longer. I'd like to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister exactly how he's going to do that. I was talking to Mrs Hermans about the distribution of benefits in health care. We are certainly going to put forward a concrete proposal for this tomorrow: to stop paying benefits in healthcare, because money for care must go to care. You can make a profit somewhere else. Finally, I would like to receive a response from the outgoing Prime Minister on our initiative in the care neighbourhood. Mr Heerma spoke a little bit about this. I'm very proud to report that one is being built in my own Oss right now. The neighborhood is: for everyone grow old in their own neighborhood. So not a nursing home with long gray corridors, but a small-scale care facility with a walk-in function for the neighborhood, for elderly people who, for example, can still stay at home, but enjoy eating together. With fixed faces and permanent staff. Small-scale, good care in your own neighborhood. I would like to know from the outgoing Prime Minister whether he does not think that every city in the Netherlands, or indeed every neighborhood, deserves such a neighborhood care. Another important issue that we have talked about a lot about today is living. We have seen more recently the footage from 2014 from then VVD Minister Blok who was very enthusiastic about our social rental homes at an international property investors fair. The investors had to come to buy up our houses. Well, he's been successful in that. About the whole of the Netherlands can talk about that now. I think everyone knows someone who wanted to buy a house and once was overbidden by an investor. After all, they can put a big bag of money on the table and then you really don't stand a chance as a starter anymore. I've been out in a lot of neighborhoods myself this summer. Everywhere you hear it back: houses are bought by investors and are not rarely hired much more expensive. So it's hugely price-driven. Whether the houses are split and there are many migrant workers housed in them, up to five, six or seven people in such a dwelling that is not really intended for that purpose at all. Mr. Chairman. Living is a right. That is what the debate has often been about. That also has to make sure that we do things really different. If we continue to see our housing as a market, we will not get there with the "building, building, building" story. Yeah, it's way too little built. That's all true, but if we don't regulate the market now, if we don't start to see living as a right again, and if we don't all find it abnormal that you're getting richer from home ownership than from hard work, then there's something horribly wrong in our system. Then we need to talk about that system. Specifically, the landlord's tax has already been discussed a lot. There is a political majority in favour of its abolition, on the basis of the political programmes. We will certainly propose that they be abolished. But also for freezing the rents there was a campaign. Before that, there was also a majority. Not one year, but four years freezing the social rent. Those are things we can do for people now. I mentioned labour migration for a while. I would like to say that we are very proud of Emile Roemer who has come up with a whole package of proposals to better organise the housing of migrant workers. You know, it gets really crazy every now and then. We can't do that anymore. The SP also wants to say that it is in favour of better regulation of labour migration. That is well known; together with the Christian Union, we have prepared an initiative paper for it. We are now seeing unregulated labour migration. Like any market that is unregulated, whether it is residential or labour, the labour market must also be regulated. Now employees are played against each other, only in favour of the employer who brings people here, who work cheaply and often have to live under bad conditions. We shouldn't want to do that. Another very important issue for us is security. Mr Heerma has also devoted a large part of his speech to this. The murder of Peter R. de Vries, of course, shocked us all last summer. It was a terrible cowardly act. But I think it is true that the people who have been working on this problem for a long time are less shocked by the fact that such a thing can happen in the Netherlands. We have seen for a long time that organized crime is increasing, but also that what the government is putting against it is disorganised. That has everything to do with it, let us make it quite clear here that there have been parties over the last period and the periods before that who thought it was a good idea to cut back on our security. The shortages in the police, the detectives, the D.A., you name it all, are huge. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet is making some extra money available. We invest much more in our alternative choices in extra people in justice, extra people in police, but also in financial inspectors at the FIOD, for example, to actually pick criminals, where the money is. In the Netherlands, €16 billion per year of criminal money is laundered. 16 billion euros! What could we do about that? Not even 1% of them are taken away by the government, or traced. Not even 1%! Let's invest in extra capacity for financial detectives to make sure we can catch criminals where it hurts: follow the money and take the money. Mr. Chairman. We also advocate extra investment in the police. Another letter of fire from the police union came in yesterday. It says: the deficits are enormous. I can see that in my own Brabant. In recent years 33 of the police stations, I believe, have been closed. That means a lot for street safety. I would also like to dwell on access to justice. It is a good thing that the cabinet is making 154 million available to social lawyers. It is well known that the SP, together with social lawyers, has fought for this for a long time. Actually, my simple question to the outgoing Prime Minister is: why is it so late? Does he realize what was destroyed by that? That's what I'd like to know about him. Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned the dichotomy in education. That is what we are very concerned about. The pay gap has already been mentioned here. This is something that has not happened in the past period, but which, politically speaking, should be supported by a majority in the House of Representatives. Those are things we can agree on here, aren't they? Well, at least let's do this. That's what it takes. I think we've all seen the images of the NIS of a teacher who literally had to demolish the wall between two classrooms, because two classes had to be merged. I believe there were 52 students in the classroom. That was because there was just no one else to teach the kids. We have to do something about that. The same goes for our young people. The loan system has already been mentioned here. There is also a political majority for this in the House of Representatives, a large majority even. Let's get rid of that loan system. We would also like to propose this tomorrow. The SP has long argued for the generation that has fallen victim to the loan system. Actually, that's The Hague jargon for "debt system." It is a question of asking our students to put themselves in debt in order to be able to study. We don't want that. So that debt system must be abolished. There must be compensation for this debt generation. Than Afghanistan. We saw horrible images from Kabul last summer, and already from Afghanistan. I think everyone can still remember the footage from the Kabul airport. It was the sad western retreat after a lost war. I think it is well known here that the SP in 2001 was the only party that did not support that war. In fact, we have campaigned for a very long time under the slogan "support Afghanistan, stop the war." That is because we believe that you cannot bomb a country into a democracy, no matter how much you might want it as a Western world. They were painful images. They were painful for us to see, but of course even more painful for all those people who are in trouble right now. I'd like to hear from the outgoing Prime Minister how he looks back on this kind of permanent war. We have been there for 20 years and we must note that this war has failed. A famous statement by the Taliban about the Americans was: "They have the watches, but we have the time." Unfortunately, that has become a reality, because we are twenty years ahead and the Taliban have taken over. I would also like to know from the outgoing Prime Minister how far we are now with the more than 20,000 e-mails that have arrived. We have, of course, seen the departure of two ministers, Bijleveld and Kaag. I think that was the only right decision, but of course that has not yet helped the people of Afghanistan. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister exactly how it is with all these e-mails, how long now the list of people we are still supposed to get back and how we are going to do it. There are also a lot of questions about the three people the ambassador should be allowed to bring back. As far as we are concerned, the last word has not yet been said. What is also often the subject of this debate, I can hardly say any more, is the culture of administration. The new governance culture. I am talking about the Afghanistan debate. To be quite honest, you could see that this so-called new administrative culture is a lot like the old administrative culture. Here too, motions from the Chamber were not properly carried out, with even terrible consequences in this case. But also just being unfair, for example, about the correspondence that has been with the ambassador. We believe that this new governance culture requires a great deal more than fine words. We believe in fair politics. We therefore believe that we in the House of Representatives should have a much more fundamental debate in the near future on how it could have happened in the supplement scandal that such a large group of people have not been heard so systematically and have not been seen and that not only, but has simply been trampled down by their own government. How did that happen? We, as SP, have a lot of ideas about this, but we think that we should have that conversation here. Our idea is that I should also like to refer this to the outgoing Prime Minister, and I would like him to respond to it, which has everything to do with neoliberal thinking, as we call it: 1. Guess the market can take care of it better than the government. 2. If things are going well with the big companies, then the people are going well with the so-called trickle down. 3. Individualism. Every man for himself. So there is no such thing as poverty, no, there are only poor people. This neoliberal thinking is so embedded in the thinking of our own government that it is precisely those agencies that should be there for people that are no longer there for people. I would like a response from the outgoing Prime Minister. How does he look at that? Mr. Chairman. The climate. Report after report after report We have already talked a great deal about this here in the Chamber, but it makes it clear that it is serious. The SP therefore believes that we should move away from liberal, individualist climate policy, but have a much more fundamental debate with each other here. We are making all kinds of proposals to tax large polluters, but also to do something at the same time about people's rising energy bills, because that is really going to be a big problem. But we also think it is important to stress that the idea that each individual can solve such a great task is not right. The idea of "a better environment begins with yourself" is simply not true. You can make a huge contribution and help with that yourself, and anyone who can do that must do so, especially, but a better environment starts with the Shells of this world. It starts with the discussion about how we look at it, what we expect from it and how we treat it as politics. Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned the affected parents in the supplement scandal. It doesn't suit us as SP to participate in identity politics. That was also mentioned for a while: a game of wok. That doesn't suit us at all. What we do do is fight against discrimination and racism, together with people. We have also seen where this can lead in the supplement scandal. Only the state was aired last Monday. I have already announced here that we will be here in the House of Representatives at the beginning of October. I invite everyone to attend. I do think we're more obligated to these parents. I have also asked Mrs Hermans for a moment, but I would also like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister: can we tell these people that, for Christmas, the worst misery is the compensation they are entitled to, but also all the other debts that have yet to be settled and everything that is behind it has been resolved for them? Mr President, I will conclude, because I see the clock blinking. What I would like to say is that we are working on a fraud alert provision. This is about people blacklisted to the government. We see that this problem is much more persistent. This was about fees, but we also see it in the care, we also see it in rent. In all kinds of other forms of surcharges, we see that people have fallen on blacklists, while they themselves have no idea why. We believe that this is also my question to the Prime Minister, Mr President, that these people should at least know why they are on that list. We also believe that those lists, which should no longer be used, should be kept. They must not be destroyed because we still want to investigate how this could have gone so wrong with the government. (NL) Mr President, all in all. We've had a whole day of debate. I mentioned a number of points: raising the tax on profits to 27%, taking a first step in raising the minimum wage, abolishing the landlord's tax and abolishing the loan system. That is what political majorities are for. We will therefore make these proposals, and I am counting on it, which is something I would like to give to my fellow Members of Parliament, that we are really going to make choices, because people don't have to expect anything from the outgoing cabinet. That's what we heard from the throne speech yesterday. The formation doesn't really want to make progress in the last six months either. We must ensure that we move the Netherlands forward on crucial issues. We can do that together here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u218	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. There is another interruption by Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u219	The SP has also submitted a counter-budget with indeed coverage for all the fine plans it has, but it is a considerable burden on business of more than 14 billion. The abolition of the deduction of donations is also a significant attack on community thinking, something that could also connect us. On the other hand, the largest group has said that there would also be talk about a different use of money that is currently under a different heading in the budget. Is there any talk of thinking about how we could use that money in a good way to solve concrete problems? And what would be the priority of the SP Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u220	It is true what Mr Segers says. We ourselves prefer not to call it a 'counter-budget', because that would suggest that it is a complete package, and that is far from it. These are just some other alternative choices we make in relation to the outgoing cabinet, showing that, without us having a euro cent more short than this cabinet, people are getting better. For example, we invest much more in police and justice and living. That would certainly be the priority. At the same time, that is also an answer to Mr Segers' question. We invest more than three billion in that. You can do all that right now. But most importantly, as far as we are concerned, companies are going to pay a fair share to our society in times of economic growth, because that is what we are talking about. I should like to ask Mr Segers again: are you not a little ashamed that the outgoing cabinet comes up with this? It was just about: there are also people who are getting worse. Especially after such a lousy corona year, which it has been for a lot of people, is it nice that the economy is doing well, but how painful is it that the Dutchman doesn't notice at all? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u221	It is a outgoing cabinet, and that has not exactly come up with a poor budget for policy. Even when it comes to purchasing power, steps have been taken. So it is true that money has been invested. As far as we're concerned, there's more to it. We have made a proposal of our own to look at healthcare salaries. That's what's still there. We're waiting for a response from the cabinet to that. With my introduction, I would like to point out that there are a lot of questions about your proposals, for example in the case of grants. This will come very hard from many charities and from civil society, where people can make a move through a gift and keep a good cause together. Your proposals will therefore also have to be discussed for a while. I'm not just gonna sign off on the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u222	I didn't expect that right away, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u223	Indeed, we need to talk a little longer about an increase of 14 billion. In answer to the question I asked, you said: if we have to give priority, then it is living. Is the landlord levy a priority in there? Or is there another priority? What are the cards that the SP puts on the table when the question comes from the Chamber to think about using the billion that is in the budget and with which we want to solve concrete problems? Mrs Marijnissen says: I would like to attend, attend, get to work. What would it be concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u224	I'll be very brief, because Mr. Segers is now starting to talk twice about this gift deduction. I let it go the first time, but he's bringing it up again. I would like to say a few words about this very briefly. Yeah, there's a discussion about that. That's absolutely true. But with us there is the idea that, for example, if there are initiatives, foundations or other groups, of which we think the democratically elected parliament should do good things, then we can simply grant subsidies. That gift deduction tends to be philanthropy, to people who can afford to make a gift. You can subtract them then. It has little to do with democracy. It has little to do with the fact that you are elected as a democratic representative, have a budget, have 350 billion to distribute, and think how we will do it. In fact, we think it is more democratic that such decisions are taken here. Then there is the specific question by Mr Segers, about the 1 billion of the so-called BIK. For the people at home: that used to be the abolition of the dividend tax and then the reduction of the profit tax. The VVD still hasn't succeeded. Now 2 billion is still reserved for business. Hopefully we'll spend it better now. We welcome this, but I have already indicated at the beginning of this debate that we really believe that the abolition of the landlord's tax should take place. There is simply a political majority in favour of this. That is why I also said this I do not feel very much about discussing for a very long time with the VVD, who does not agree with it, what is allowed. However, we can see that there is a political majority here that agrees on this. As far as we're concerned, that's a real start. I also know that that's the one billion that can't be paid. That is why we ourselves, perhaps the only one in the Chamber, I am not sure, because I have yet to hear the other speakers present their own alternatives. We also stopped by the CPB. For the lovers there is a nice stamp on that, so it is also payable. Indeed, we are now saying: 3 billion investment in housing. That's the landlord's tax off, but also a Housing Fund and lower rents for people. We believe that this housing crisis cannot wait. That's profit with all due respect, I'm happy if we can better target that BIK but it's not enough, Mr Segers. You'd have to agree with me. Taking down part of that landlord's tax is far from enough to deal with the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u225	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u226	That's not enough. That's my feeling after four years of cabinet participation. It's never enough. You always want to take extra steps. You always have a lot more ambition, but sometimes doing something is better than doing nothing. If we can take a step, it's a profit. When it comes to giving deductions, such a debate makes it clear that there are ideological differences. I always try to explain to people that we, the Christian Union, are a social party and not a leftist party. Now I'm starting to see why. You say: I prefer that the money be paid to the government and that the government redistribute, rather than that there is social initiative in society, in which one citizen helps the other citizen to join forces and do something good for his neighbor. I find that last one incredibly valuable. You want to run it all through the government. You are saying: away with the deductions, because I find all this strange and difficult; I want it all through subsidies via the government. That is indeed a left-wing solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u227	You are also saying "a left-wing solution" very dirtyly. That's not so bad, Mr. Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u228	I don't think it's social. I really don't think it's social. It touches on the story that Mr Heerma told, namely that we have a strong government that has to take care of everything. But we are based more on citizens' own initiative. Then such a gift deduction is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u229	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u230	Still, I'm gonna talk to you about the gift deduction. By the way, we are very much prepared to look at another proposal for cover which is more appealing to Mr Segers. This gives us 400 million, but if, for example, we mention what makes child benefit dependent, then that will yield 1.4 billion. That's not even in here. That is a very good left and social idea of the SP. Maybe you'll get excited about that. I don't think that's the problem. The real structural problem of the housing crisis is that we are actually hearing almost all the parties here, minus the VVD, say: 'We have to get rid of the landlord's tax, but we are far from there. It's not nearly enough. It's a first step." In the knowledge that it is not going to come from this outgoing cabinet, we must ensure today and tomorrow that we do take fundamental steps. If there are political majorities in favour of this, I would like to conclude by saying that the SP expects the House of Representatives, democracy, to move, to speak now, to be heard now and to ensure that the Netherlands progresses now. Otherwise, as we have said, we see no option other than to hold new elections. We do not have to expect it from this outgoing cabinet. The formation hasn't made any progress in six months. If there are any parties in the House of Representatives who block good proposals, I am not talking about pushing through the wishes of the SP, which really is a broad political majority, then a solution is far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u231	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Then I'd like to suspend for dinner break. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u232	Mr. Chairman. Limmel, a neighborhood in Maastricht. In Maastricht, by the way, we say 'Leumel', but I am referring here to 'Limmel'. It's a neighborhood where people live very nicely together. There's community spirit. People have often lived there for many decades and new generations have also found a new home. Until in Limmel, too, the housing shortage struck. There are simply too few houses. Children who have grown up there must, to their own sadness and the sorrow of their father and mother, move to another district in Maastricht or sometimes even live somewhere in the villages. But the residents found a solution. There was a large piece of set-aside land lying on Limmel, where no less than 800 new houses could be built. The residents joined forces, they made plans, convinced financiers and went to the municipality. Everything seemed to be in jugs and jugs. Until a millionaire bought that piece of set-aside land. He had become rich in mink breeding and saw more bread in building a distribution center than in new houses for the people in Limmel. The residents' plans went into the trash bin; no control over their own neighborhood, over their own streets, no solution to the major housing shortage. Mr. Chairman. The situation in Limmel is not on its own. Many more people in our country cannot move forward because they are uncertain about their existence. People in Loppersum, who have seen the cracks in the facades created by the earthquakes and have been waiting for years for their homes to be strengthened. Families in Wijk aan Zee, where it rains carcinogenic particles above the village, so that the children can no longer play outside. But these people aren't gonna accept it. They're gonna take action. Neighborhood network Limmel, the Groninger Soil Movement, Fresh Wind: they stand up for themselves, their village, their neighborhood, their children. They're fighting the battle. And they expect answers. They expect answers, solutions, the fulfillment of earlier promises made. They also look at this cabinet. But this cabinet is looking the other way. That makes people angry, and that is right, because there is a lot at stake. Can the project developers continue their megalomaniac projects? Can industry continue with its sickening and polluting emissions? Can the NAM continue to evade its responsibility? Can investors and landowners continue to speculate? Or is our common sense winning? The certainty of existence? A clean and safe environment where you are at home and where you feel at home? Whose cities and villages are ours anyway? Whose country is ours? From the big money or from all of us? Mr. Chairman. The answer to these questions is determined together. Social democracy knows that tomorrow can be better if we work together today. Together, we're stronger. Together we can make the world fairer and more beautiful, by joining forces between people, together with social movements, trade unions and political parties. Together with them, we can increase security, reduce inequality, make progress possible. But this isn't gonna happen on its own. Because far too often people draw to the short end. Too often, politics does not choose people or the environment, but the multinational. It's not for nothing that it brews in society. People go out on the street, people don't lie down at the status quo. Housing protests, demonstrations of the cultural sector, the strike of childcare workers and soon another major climate march are signs of growing social discontent. It doesn't fall out of the sky. Increasing uncertainty is causing progress to stall. For the first time since World War II, our children are worse off than we are. The inequality is so great worldwide that the 26 richest people in the world possess the same amount as the 3.8 billion poorest people in the world. Trickle-down turned out to be winner takes all. Fortunately, the Netherlands is better off in many respects than many other countries, but also in the Netherlands there is the trend of increasing inequality. In the rich Netherlands, our country, one in nine children grows up in poverty. One in nine kids. In our rich Netherlands, 4,000 children stay in childcare every night. 4,000 kids every night. In the rich Netherlands there are more and more working poor and more and more working homeless people. It is becoming increasingly difficult in our country to become a quarter of a dime. Economists conclude from research that it has become more difficult for children to exceed their parents' income. This is most true for children with parents with the lowest incomes. These differences become visible before babies celebrate their first birthday. Children of low-income parents are already overweight after four months. They don't learn to talk so fast. They're gonna have trouble concentrating later. In the Netherlands, it increasingly matters what your parents' educational level is. One of the reasons for this is that children of highly educated parents are often given expensive homework guidance or are allowed to attend private school for a year. Between 1995 and 2015, expenditure on such expensive tutoring increased from 26 million euros to no less than 189 million euros. The result is inequality of opportunity. One child is updated after school and the other child has to try to figure it out with the hard sums. The consequences for the school advice can be guessed. Of course I understand the choice of these parents very well, but it should have been awarded to every child. We see this growing inequality in many places in our society. There's been a proliferation of precarious employment contracts. The people who earn the least and have a hyperflexible contract are the first to stand aside. We saw it in the corona crisis, when hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed people were in fact immediately out of work and income. The housing market. The housing market works for people who collect a lot of houses for profit instead of for people who want one, just to live in. Speculants, cottage milkers, investors get a good job, so much so that in Rotterdam nearly 40% of the houses are bought by investors while many people are longing for an affordable home. Renting is simply impossible for a lot of people and homeowners at the same time benefit from historically low interest rates and huge overvalues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u233	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u234	A nice intro by Mrs Ploumen, also about the Limburg district where suddenly a megaloods instead of the 800 houses that were previously planned. But a simple question came up to me; perhaps Mrs Ploumen knows a solution. Why isn't a place in one of those grounds where the factory is long gone just a place to live so you can get ahead of this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u235	I do not believe that Mr Van der Staaij and I differ here. It does, of course, highlight the problem that has arisen in recent years: the problem that land speculators have been given free rein. I'll tell the cliff hanger. Luckily, in Limmel, local politics, the Labour Party but also other parties, helped the residents. It now looks like the destination can be converted and this speculator can be stopped. It is, of course, also an example of how important it is that the government no longer sees land as a market, but as a right. The government should take much more direction. That is also one of our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u236	Finally, Mr President. Sure, there are all kinds of problems in housing. But what strikes me is that sometimes it is not so much about all kinds of new instruments that are needed, but that, as perhaps in this case, it is also about the municipality acting in good time and making sure that the zoning plan is just adapted to what is needed now. Then housing can go faster than if you first have to negotiate again based on an outdated destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u237	It confirms my point that the government should be much more the director instead of leaving it to the market. Mr President, on this inequality. Inequality of wealth breaks deep gaps through society and between generations. With a jubelton children from wealthy parents get opportunities for a house where others stay on the sidelines. Pawn bosses make big profits that aren't taxed, while tenants have to pay the top price. People with great power can make their homes more sustainable themselves, while others sigh under the ever-increasing energy bill. This inequality is likely to increase further in the coming years. As the economy grows and profits rise, families are on the zero line. Those who do benefit are people with a lot of assets and shareholders. But there are alternatives, because inequality has no inevitability and claiming that we can be free in a world full of inequality is a serious error. Inequality is the product of power structures, the product of political choices, and so there is an alternative if we dare to make other choices. Social Democrats know that if people have a decent basis, a fair chance and trust, there is no limit to what we can achieve together. Our story is not based on selfishness or greed. Our story is not based on people who can only get away with fines or bonuses. We believe in human dignity and the desire to matter and be connected with others. After 40 years in which the market was the goal, the government the problem and the individual the solution, it is high time for a change. Man, the planet first. A government that takes responsibility for the right to a decent life for all. The market at the service of man and society. No power without counterpower. Fair distribution of knowledge, power and income. The Netherlands deserves other, honest choices. The Netherlands deserves a cabinet that increases the security of life of people, now and in the future. This means that the minimum wage and benefits should be raised, that we should finally invest in affordable homes and nobody has to sleep on the streets and that we should put an end to the jungle of contracts that keep profits high and wages low. The Netherlands deserves a cabinet that tackles the growing inequality. This means that employers should not pass on their risks to flex workers and tozzp'ers, that workers should share in profits and that we should invest in care and education, so that all children receive good education and all people have loving care. The Netherlands deserves a cabinet that tackles climate change, which means that large polluters will have to pay and households will have to be spared. This means that people must be able to reap the benefits of a more sustainable home and not just the burden of it. It means closing coal plants in exchange for sustainable alternatives. But chairman, those choices for the Netherlands are not made. In fact, no choices are made at all. The Netherlands is standing still. It is not surprising that The Hague is being watched with increasing amazement and annoyance. Next to me in trade-K there is a outgoing cabinet which has now resigned seven months ago because of the surcharge scandal. The Prime Minister joked shortly afterwards that his outgoing cabinet actually had more power than before. A disenchanting insight into his vision of democracy. Months later, we haven't made any progress. In fact, it has become a democratic mess. None of the problems of our time have been solved. In the meantime, we are stuck with a team of directors who are still doing everything they shouldn't do at all: putting information into cover-ups, leaking Prince's Day plans, allowing test drilling in the Wadden Sea, and Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, who is still a minister at budget talks and then becomes a lobbyist for the coal industry, with the knowledge of the Prime Minister. And at the same time, they don't do anything they should. Victims of the earthquake damage and the supplemental scandal will not be helped. The housing crisis is not resolved. Homelessness is increasing. Investors are improving and households do not notice economic growth. People who fear for their lives in Afghanistan were left to their own devices. "Dancing with Janssen" led to a disastrous coronazomer for so many entrepreneurs who were already struggling. As in recent years, yesterday the outgoing Minister of Finance had brought two briefcases, figuratively speaking: one for the shareholders and the investors who had been sitting there full and one for the pensioners, the workers and the families, with purely hot air. It's the last convulsions of a missionary team we need to get rid of quickly. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, through you, Mr President, if you are not ashamed? Aren't you ashamed that you have to present here a missionary budget that doesn't begin to solve the big problems of the Netherlands, and in the meantime you're quitting formation with all kinds of political stuff? Are you not ashamed that you have had to resign because of the surcharge scandal, but that there is still no justice to the suffering of the parents, that there is still no clarity about ethnic profiling by the Tax Administration, that there has not yet been a start on stopping the surcharge system, whereas that was the beginning of all misery? Are you not ashamed that the Netherlands cannot make a strong noise in Europe and in the world, because there is a missionary cabinet, that European billions entitled to which the Netherlands is entitled, are simply on the Brussels shelf? Are you not ashamed that before the elections you were talking about the importance of broad support and that the Dutch should do it together and that there is too much polarisation in the country, while you are now putting self-interest above national interest and not being able to cooperate with others? And are you not ashamed of the fact that confidence in democracy and politics is being squeezed, because six months after the elections there is no prospect of a new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u238	Are you at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u239	No, not at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u240	But you do have a natural break?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u241	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u242	All right. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u243	The answer is no, he's not ashamed. He's not ashamed of anything. But that's not my question. My question is, and that is actually the only political question that, despite Mrs Ploumen's critical story, is now relevant: what are you going to do? You know, they threw you off the table together with Mr Klaver, or at least they ended the negotiations. You're not allowed to participate in a new cabinet. We are now going to see whether there is sufficient support with a minority cabinet in 'the broad middle' whatever that means; I think you are one of them and I am not allowed to participate. At least, not in the cabinet, but to help them continue, with all the criticism you just gave. So the political question is, of course, what are you going to do now? Are you going to cooperate? Will you comment on the advances made by Mrs Hermans, Mrs van de VVD, to help them with a minority cabinet, when you are not allowed to moor? Or do you say, "Ammehula," if you want my support, invite yourself to the table? That is the political question that is at stake today and tomorrow, and I do not hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u244	What do you think? No, of course I'm not! Of course I'm not gonna do that. Of course we're not gonna do that because we need real changes. Of course, it is to be commended that Mrs Hermans of the VVD has been sent out with a billion dollars. But you have heard the problems in the Netherlands. You make a different analysis sometimes. I'm not gonna choose what's priority. The housing crisis needs to be resolved. It cannot survive that only multinationals benefit from economic growth. It cannot be that teachers in the Netherlands remain underpaid. So, no, I'm not gonna let an apple and an egg in a tolerant structure, as it's called, messing around. Real change is needed. That can be negotiated. That didn't happen. I heard you say that. You weren't there. We talked, but there was no negotiation. Finally, I do not know what that is, the broad political centre. I don't know. The Labour Party is a left-wing party and it really has to be different. That's what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u245	Can I ask you whether you say that on behalf of the Labour Party or whether you say that on behalf of GroenLinks? 'Cause I believe you're meeting together, but you're not together yet. Or is it on behalf of the Labour Party alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u246	It's on behalf of the Labour Party. I would also like to interrupt Mr Klaver, but I think I know what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u247	Then I want to finish. We must, of course, debate each other and the cabinet must also speak tomorrow. In any case, the chance that the cabinet will find support on Monday in the so-called broad middle of this Chamber has been considerably reduced. I appreciate the honest response of Mr Ploumen of the Labour Party. She says: no, if we are not invited to the table for major problems, we are not going to do it with a crumb about the landlord's tax, disrespectfully said, because our ideas are not always my ideas. That's a clear answer. Thank you for that, Mrs Ploumen, and I hope that the Prime Minister will bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u248	Yes. This is in line with my answer to Mr Wilders' question. Of course, I'm not gonna stand by and watch this still water. We, 150 Members of Parliament, have received the vote and the confidence of the Dutch. We're just missionaries. So we are not participating in shady negotiations on the budget. Today and tomorrow we can speak openly about what we think is important. That is what we are going to vote on. We shall also make proposals for this. Today and tomorrow, the Chamber has the opportunity to take action, because we want it to be different. That is why, together with GroenLinks, I am making four concrete proposals to make next year's budget fairer, more sustainable and more social. Mr. Chairman. One. The Labour Party wants to tackle the housing shortage now. There aren't enough affordable houses. Too many people can't pay the rent. It's a big task for a new cabinet, but people can't wait. We therefore want the landlord's tax to be abolished, so that corporations can build more houses, lower rents and make homes more sustainable. As far as we are concerned, we also need to invest permanently in the Housing Fund, so that municipalities and residents can improve living conditions in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. Two. The Labour Party believes that the Dutch should simply improve on it next year, because there is also economic growth. And that is why, together with GroenLinks again, we are proposing to reverse the decision of the outgoing cabinet to spend EUR 1 billion on reducing the burden on business. Because instead of a gift to business, we can use that money much better to improve the purchasing power of single people, families and pensioners. Three. The Labour Party wants to invest in the children of our country. More money for education! Because the shortage of teachers remains high. A quarter of the 15-year-olds in the Netherlands cannot read well enough. That is why there must be a robust offensive against low-literacy and the teacher's salaries must be increased. Teachers in primary education should receive the same salary as their colleagues in secondary education, because that is what they deserve. Four. Of course, there is no time to lose to combat climate change. While our planet is in danger of becoming unliving for our children, the great polluters continue to emit CO without any concern. Our nature needs to be better protected. The climate must be given more priority. Scientists need to be better listened to. If we abolish all fossil subsidies to large polluters and tax pollution fairly, we can use the revenues for a lower energy bill for households and for a working guarantee fund for people who risk losing their jobs in the big turnaround that is needed. Mr. Chairman. It is rather uncomfortable to have such fundamental budgetary discussions with a outgoing cabinet which is in a far-reaching state of dissolution. It is also without a recent precedent. But we have no choice, because we are talking about the budget for the coming year, the year 2022. If we do not take concrete steps now and wait until the end of the day for a new cabinet, nothing will happen, nothing will happen to the problems that people in the Netherlands have to deal with every day. This is the first opportunity to change the budget and I would like to take advantage of it. The Netherlands has nothing good to expect from this outgoing cabinet and from the frighteningly slow formation, so let us set a good example and just do our job. Mr. Chairman. Despite the formation chaos in The Hague, I am quite optimistic, because the people in Limmel, Wijk aan Zee, Loppersum: they are turning the tide. They join forces between people and social movements. They work together with trade unions and political parties. In this way, we can increase security and reduce inequality. This is how we can make progress together. Connection gives strength. After 40 years of individualism, 40 years of market forces and 40 years of liberalism, this connection is urgently needed. It's high time we did something different. It is necessary and it is possible, because together we can make the Netherlands fairer, more sustainable and more social, a finer country, in which we can live together. I have already said that a new cabinet is now waiting for us. This is an appeal to our fellow Members. It is up to us representatives of the people to take steps, to live up to the confidence that the electorate has given us. Let us use that confidence today and tomorrow to really help the Netherlands move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u249	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:40 for dinner. Then we will start with Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u250	The next item is the follow-up to the General Political Reviews. I would like to give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u251	There is a lot of criticism of how we work together here. I understand. Sometimes politics seems too much of a game here, as if it's just about who wins at the end of a debate or who's the most focused. Politics can also be a game or an interesting topic to talk about, if things are going well with you, if you have few problems in life and if you have money. The decisions we take here in this Chamber will have a very limited impact on your direct life. Political views you take say something about your identity, not about what every day looks like. But if you have no money or little money, if you live in poverty and if you have a lot of problems, then the decisions that we can make here every day or not will matter. It has often been the case that the people who have been the victims of the surcharge scandal are the ones who are the victims. Last week I had dinner. We all invited people we didn't know we were gonna be at each other's tables. I was sitting there with a young man, Matthijs. He's one of the victims of the rampage. He grew up as a teenager in a family that the government treated so incredibly hard. As a grown man, he still suffers from what happened there. I was impressed by his resilience, by the way he's trying to shape his life, while he's being countered in every possible way. He came out of this whole affair with debts, including the health insurance companies. Univé, if you're listening tonight, you're ashamed you're still after his money. But he's going through with it. That whole night, he didn't ask me once if we could do anything for him. I'm deeply embarrassed because he still hasn't been paid any money. When I asked him what his dream was and what he would love most, his very simple answer was: never again an empty refrigerator. And that in 2021: put into trouble by an inconspicuous government. What we do here matters and can make a difference in people's lives, not the question of who wins or loses, seeing politics as a contest and arguing with each other, finding the VVD on the right to cooperate, seeing Mark Rutte as a terrible man, or two left parties calling a huge left cloud, while your own party congress encourages you to perhaps take a more social stance. What we do here with each other matters. Too often politics does not do what is necessary, in small terms when I talk about Matthijs, but also in large terms. We ask consultative commission after consultative committee to say something about the nitrogen problem. We know that we will have to reduce nitrogen emissions by at least 50%. The cabinet comes up with the brilliant plan to reduce it by 30%. Why? The United Nations International Climate Panel has been warning us year after year that global warming is coming through man and moving faster and faster. Even with the many billions that are being spent now, we are not achieving the goals set out in the Climate Act. This requires a different approach. I've been in this House since 2010. I don't have Binnenhof every day anymore, which is a shame. But where you're walking here isn't literally, because we're the first to walk here in the House of Representatives, fantastic people have gone before us. Every day we can decide with each other: do we achieve the best in the Netherlands or the worst? Of the worst, we regularly see good examples. Journalists call scum of the ledge, so reporters can no longer do their job properly because they are attacked. "Less Moroccans" yell, so masters and damsels have to say the next day that those children are really allowed to stay. Or the tone that we use here in the Lower House against fraudsters. The uncompromising hunt for people who couldn't help themselves. Every day we have the choice: do we get the best out in the Netherlands or the worst? We have big shoes to fill here. I'm thinking Samuel van Houten. A Liberal MP and the man who came into the Chamber with one of the first laws of initiative. He was a liberal. Thorbecke was worshipped at his house. Yet he stood up to the liberal thinking of that time, that employers had to decide for themselves how they deal with working conditions. He made sure that children up to 12 years old were no longer allowed to be employed in factories. Another of our predecessors was Conny Tendeloo, MP for the Labour Party. In 1955 there were nine women in the House of Representatives, she fought against a very unfair point, namely that women who worked in the government or were teachers were automatically fired at the time they were married. She fought against the feeling of that time and managed to ensure that the women of confessional parties here in the Chamber also voted in favour of her motion. Two years later, this unjust rule was abolished. From a more recent date, I call Boris Dittrich, now Prime Minister for D66. I ran into him yesterday on Prince's Day. In 1994 he stuck his neck out, first in politics pleading for gay marriage. From both sides he was attacked: by the confessions, but also by the COC, because marriage was an outdated institution. We're so glad he went through with it. Every day we have a choice with each other. Do we achieve the best in the Netherlands or the worst? Despite all the criticism you may have of the functioning of politics these days, these weeks and these past years, I see enough wonderful things happening here. I am looking at my colleague Gert-Jan Segers and his group, who have worked for a children's pardon and managed to make a difference. I am thinking of Mr Khadija Arib. Thanks to her, an initiative law came in to set up a Children's Ombudsman. Sandra Beckerman made sure with her motion that the social rents were frozen. My own colleague Bart Snels, who has written a law that I myself barely understand, I don't think any of us here, but who did ensure that large multinationals like Shell would pay more taxes. Sjoerd Sjoerdsma, who achieved that the Netherlands became the forerunner in Europe to ensure that we could not only tackle and sanction countries, but also human rights criminals themselves. And Derk Boswijk has been mentioned many times. 35,000 Derk Boswijks in the Lower House seems a bit much, but with one I am happy. These first months as MPs, he has the courage to ensure at the CDA that steps are taken in the plans on nitrogen and the future of agriculture. Renske Leijten, who with her black book made sure that not only a small group of a few hundred parents was spoken of, but that that group finally grew and that their justice could be done. And of course my partner in crime, Lilianne Ploumen. When Trump said "I'm abandoning women and girls in the world," she came up with the initiative "She decides" and she made the difference. Every day we can choose what we do for the Netherlands. I find it bizarre and in fact not to describe that we still do not have a cabinet. I cannot explain that we have not yet negotiated the future of the Netherlands, because we must act now. But if you can't do that at the formation table, we'll do it here. For anyone who thinks we want to negotiate a billion dollars or a small piece of this or that: forget it. The problems that exist are immense. When we talk about the housing crisis, it is indeed about the landlord levy. Then it's about renting in this country being affordable. Then I don't want to discuss "maybe we can take one step now." Those days are behind us. Tomorrow, the PvdA and we will be presenting proposals to improve the housing market, as I hear it with many more people. With one measure alone, you won't make it. I hope that all the groups will consider whether we want to bring out the best in this Chamber or the worst. If these parties dare to vote on what is in their electoral programmes, there is a majority to ensure that we resolve this housing crisis, that we reduce market forces there, that we abolish the landlord's tax. The same applies to the treatment of large companies versus ordinary citizens in the country. People aren't getting any better. In the election campaign, almost all parties were talking about taxing large companies. The CDA increases corporate tax and also D66. I see a reduction in the amount of this first disc. There's room over there. We will come up with proposals to ensure that this money benefits all citizens in this country. And how long has there been talk of teacher salaries? I would like to congratulate my colleagues Lilian Marijnissen and Gert-Jan Segers on having passed a motion in this Parliament last week to raise salaries in health care. You're right. Motions adopted must be carried out, even if there is one ex-coalition party that may not agree with it. That is why tomorrow we will come up with proposals to ensure that teachers' salaries in the country also go up. We've been talking about this for years, and they deserve it. The same applies to tackling climate change. I am truly pleased with the other tone I hear. Mrs Hermans just said: we are not pessimistic, we believe that everything is going to be okay. Me too, but not by itself. There is a state of emergency at the moment. If we do not take more action, we will not be able to control climate change. That's the hard truth. That means we have the courage to move forward now. The measures of 7 billion that are now being taken are not even sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Climate Law. At the same time, the cabinet chooses to open Lelystad Airport, broaden the A27 and drill for gas in the Wadden Sea. Are you kidding me? Everyone in the world, all the renowned institutes say: you must leave fossil fuels mainly in the earth. And the Netherlands is going to drill happy. Mr. Chairman. What is really needed in the Netherlands is a change of course. This can be achieved especially if we have a new government, because the problems I mention here are not the only ones. I haven't even talked about the nitrogen problem yet. That is so big, so comprehensive, that must be negotiated with the parties. There must be a missionary cabinet so that the execution can be carried out. There must be a minister who has perseverance and power to make sure that we really solve the problems now. In the Throne speech it was also about foreign policy and how complicated it is all connected. I liked that. It was one of the first times I heard it so explicitly in the throne speech. It's incredibly complex. How we relate to China has everything to do with reshoring. Building strategic stocks and strategic independence have everything to do with how we behave within the European Union. Are we at the forefront of this or are we trying to stop changes? It is easy to say that in our foreign policy, the transatlantic axis is the core. What exactly is that ash? We went as a NATO mission to Afghanistan. In NATO we were not discussed at all that we would withdraw; a communication has been made. Those are huge issues that require a missionary government. The supplement system. How many times have I heard it's complicated and difficult? Yeah, that's true. That's why we have this job: to solve complicated and difficult problems. But to be able to take those steps, you need a missionary cabinet. And then the polarization. It seems as if it is increasingly difficult in the Netherlands simply to have a debate or a conversation with each other and to be able to strongly disagree, without calling each other a rotten fish or doubting anyone's intentions. That too is the task of a new cabinet. The way in which such a cabinet can be created could contribute to this: if you show that you can bridge differences. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. A lot has been said. Every day we have the choice: do we get the best out in the Netherlands or the worst? This APB is up to us to show that we have the best interests with the Netherlands and what we can do together. I am not talking about restoring the image of arguing politicians, but about fighting for each other of real changes. Anyone in this room who thinks that this is easy to achieve or that we can change a little bit will be deceived. The challenges we face are too great. We all have to stick our necks out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u252	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I shall give the floor... Oh sorry, there is another interruption by Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u253	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I thought you'd already seen my hand. A fine speech by Mr Klaver. It began with the words, if I quote him correctly, "politically matters." I'll share that. In the course of your speech, you spoke of the "billion." Then I do not think you are doing justice to what that might mean for politics that matters. I'm gonna make a call to think seriously about that. It's obvious you want more. I want more, too. I have more wishes, too. I hear about the changes you are striving for. I understand that, and I appreciate it. But this is about whether we can find something for that billion, which isn't nothing, so we can do something together to take a step. We do not realize 100% of the wishes you have, which I have and which we all have in the Chamber, but we can ensure that politics wins 100%. And then politics matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u254	It's not about your wishes or my wishes. It is about the problems in the Netherlands and whether we can solve them. It's not about whether politics wins. The issue is whether we can solve the problems of Matthijs and all those other people in the Netherlands. That's what it's all about. Why I'm so hard on that one billion is because of the whole way the VVD says, we're taking that fence away from it. I understand from your point of view. You fought for that, because it is the money from the dividend tax. In the agreements that were there, that was actually intended for the VVD. But you don't seem to realize what it sounds like when you say in parliament that you're willing to talk about that one billion. We are dealing here with the whole budget. We will also look for a different interpretation of that billion and of all the other billions. That's why I'm so keen on that. I don't think I called it a "billion." That we limit the debate to that one billion, which is 0.3% of the total budget, I simply do not go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u255	We are in no way restricting the debate to that one billion. I'm just asking a question about that one billion. With that one billion, I think we can do a lot on a number of major issues. I repeat: that is not all you would like or anything I would like, but we can take a step to solve the problems for the people of this country, to deliver. As you said this morning in an interruption to me so beautifully: that is what I would like to do, and then politics matters. At least, for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u256	Well, then we'll have a difference of opinion. Indeed, if you start at a billion and say: this is the space there is to be able to spend, that is the totally wrong beginning of a discussion. If you say "Mr. Klaver, it is extremely unwise to abolish that landlord's tax at once," then I am curious to hear your arguments in terms of substance. Saying that there are big problems and that we have a billion to solve them is not the type of politics I believe in. This is the policy of recent years, in which the finances were first determined and then looked at the problems of society. It is time for another type of policy, in which we first put the problems at the centre and see if we can make a joint analysis of how to solve these problems. Part of that has already been done under the leadership of Mariëtte Hamer. Then we're gonna see how we can solve those problems. I just need to say in advance that we have a billion dollars, and that's all we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u257	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u258	Finally, in response to what Mr Klaver says, I am only going to let myself be thrown away as if I wanted to solve all the problems in this country with a billion dollars. That's not the issue at all. The only thing I want to do with a billion dollars is to see if we can say in this Chamber by a majority of a number of parties: we are taking a step there. Does that step go as far as any of us would like to put it? No, but this is the step that we can now take together and with a majority in this Parliament we can partly solve a problem together. That's what I'm fighting for, that's what I'm going for, and that's what I've been trying to argue with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u259	But who says this is the step we can take? That's the limited thinking I'm resisting. As if we could only take a step if it only costs a billion dollars and we can only mean something to each other. The debate and the conversation that we need to have with each other must be about the problems we see, the analysis that goes with it and how we're going to solve them. If we look back on this debate tomorrow, you can think: that's nice; we've arranged 100 million for care, or here we've got a little money for the housing market. That's not how it works. The problems are very big. Start with a shared analysis. Start with what needs to be done. Then, in the budget, we look for the money together. That's where we make hard choices and then we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u260	I get the impression that Mrs Hermans wants a political quickie and Mr Klaver has a lasting relationship. It's going a little sideways this way. I am curious to see how Mr Klaver is looking at the current situation of standstill in formation and what his role is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u261	We would very much like to have a table. We've offered that many times. We had a debate this spring. That was very intense. That ended in a motion of censure. It was not a matter of course that both the Labour Party and GroenLinks would like to continue to do so. Given the election results, we think we should get on with each other. We have offered to negotiate with two right-wing parties that are very far from us. That offer was rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u262	What does that mean? Does it mean that Mr Klaver, together with Mrs Ploumen, has that willingness every time, but remains on the sidelines until there is a call? What's the alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u263	We now have this debate on next year's budget. This means that we are coming up with proposals to bring this budget into line as firmly as possible. The problems are too big to wait until they're out. At the same time, I continue to express the willingness to negotiate. In fact, I think we should all have that willingness. I find it a real shame that it is now said that six parties in the Netherlands could form a cabinet with each other. That should be much more. I'm not happy with this rash. I can say I disagree, but the voter is always right. This is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u264	Mr. Azarkan. No? You have thus come to the end of your contribution, for which I am grateful. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I was born in 1976, the year of the punk... that might explain a few things. 1976 was also one of the years that it was exceptionally hot. My mom can still tell me some juicy stories about that. I was just born, my sister 2 years old, my brother 3.5 years old, so my mom was in a hot house with three little kids. But that was at the time when that huge heat was an exception. In the meantime, we are living in times when a summer like we had last year is the exception. That it is not so hot, that there is some rain again, that there is a breath for nature, for the people who quickly suffer from the heat, and also for the animals in all the stables that stand in the Netherlands. We live unmistakably in times of change. The cabinet chose to give this as the motto of the throne speech. The king spoke of the historian H.W. von der Dunk, who said "Every time is transition time." If so, social change is a constant. Good. Wherever, we think so. But we will have to pay particular attention to the change in our environment, which has become a constant and which threatens life on earth. So the Party for Animals actually feels a lot for the analysis of that other historian, Philipp Blom, who already analyzed before the corona crisis that we live in a tilting time. Either we opt for radical change to bring the economy within the capacity of the earth, or we don't, and then it ends in floods, droughts and new pandemics. He said this before the corona crisis. In short, it ends in a bad ending for life on earth. I see there's been an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u266	Yes, thank you. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u267	Before Mrs. Ouwehand continues, she said this summer was an exception. I was curious to see which predictive gift Mrs. Ouwehand has, that she already knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u268	I don't have a predictive gift of my own, but I do value science very much. This summer, apart from being lucky for a moment, it was not so hot, not so dry, also the summer of the last report of the IPCC, the United Nations Climate Panel. This has been concluded in that report, and what we see happening around us is that climate change is more serious, faster than feared, and that we must therefore take account of the worst. If you take those predictions seriously, it doesn't look good and the summers are getting warmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u269	I know that IPCC report. This is the same report that states that the climate impact of cows is three to four times lower than was assumed. But then Mrs Ouwehand is based on scientists who say a lot of things. A lot of things will be true, some things might be less true. But I also heard Mrs Ouwehand say: this summer was an exception. As a political leader or group leader of a party, I think you are making a very firm statement, and that is what scares people, even though you do not know it at all. Maybe we'll get ten cold and wet summers in a row. That will have to do with climate change again if it is too dry, is that the climate, if it is too wet, is that the climate, if it is cold, is that the climate and if it is too hot, that is the climate. But I do think Mrs Ouwehand should be careful with those statements. I don't think you can predict that here, from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u270	My name isn't Gerrit Hiemstra. I'm not a weather forecaster. I'm not a climate scientist either. What I do do is take those reports seriously. If Mrs van der Plas constantly wants to hear that this is the scientific consensus, that these are the predictions and that there is also a chance that the climate scientists are wrong, I can always say that, but then the debates here take a very long time. I think Mrs Van der Plas knows how science works. She knows how these IPCC reports come about, what the predictions are and how the scientists always say that there is a margin and that they can't cut it with scissors. That is the context in which politicians, like myself, warn people and appeal to the cabinet that things are not going well. Heat is not very good for people in the Netherlands. It is also not good for farmers, who suffer from global warming, because they are suffering from drought and heat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u271	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u272	I'm not denying that either, but you said quite harshly that you knew that. This was an exception. Now I come to the conclusion that you don't really know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u273	I would say: this is a typical debate with Mrs Van der Plas. Everyone knows how science works and how carefully climate scientists come to consensus. Everyone who reads the reports also knows that there are margins of uncertainty, but that you do not have to say that all the time in the debate. If Mrs van der Plas does need that, I am happy to give her every time I refer to the climate scientists, the explanation that goes with it, but I do not think that is necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u274	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u275	Mrs. Van der Plas is watching her iPad. Mr. Chairman. In the summer, the United Nations Climate Panel confirmed what we see happening around us. Climate change is even more serious than it has been feared. We're gonna have to act. The Prime Minister responded by saying that the Netherlands will become an Olympic champion of climate. Then I remembered the last time we were champions of something with our national national sport; that was in 1988. That happens to be the year in which Queen Beatrix made her famous Christmas speech. As the Queen said in 1988: "Slowly the earth dies and the unimaginable "the end of life itself" becomes imaginable." Those warnings are not new. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister said: The Netherlands will be an Olympic champion of climate. The Netherlands, the country that is European champion biodiversity and for whom the world title biodiversity loss seems close. Mr. Chairman. We wonder how the Prime Minister could say two years ago: we have 31 years left for the climate, don't worry. In the Millions Note we have now received, it says that we are abandoning the agreement we made in Paris to do everything we can with each other to prevent global warming from going beyond 1.5 degrees. How can both of that be true? How is it that the Prime Minister gets into his head to say that we're going to be Olympic champions of climate when we dangle at the bottom of all the lists? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands had a leading role in protecting nature. Last week in Trouw, Patrick Jansen wrote about the most precious thing we have: "Until the year 2000, the Netherlands was a precursor to nature conservation. We pioneered with the Plan Ooijvaar, in which high water safety was combined with nature development and recreation." He describes how we transformed production forests into biodiverse forests, with 60 forest reserves, without human intervention, and how we devised the main ecological structure to enable species exchange and protect biodiversity. We have all lost it over the past two decades with the Cabinets-Balkenende and the Cabinets-Rutte. Problems with pollution, fertilization, dehydration, acidification and disruption show that our economic choices literally run counter to our nature. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is also called a hard lesson in political humility. I wonder who exactly learned that lesson. The Minister of Finance is performing it to say in the first sentence of the Millions Note: the Dutch economy is remarkably good for it one and a half years after the corona crisis. Our economy runs entirely on exhaustion of the Earth. On 27 April, on King's Day, this year, the Netherlands was already completely out of natural resources for the whole year. We live on the basis of prey on the earth and prey on future generations. What is needed now is the political courage to take the step towards an economy that fits in with the capacity of the earth, and not what the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets have done, namely to make an advance on the future of our young people, in the first instance. It can't be that the cabinet insists that it didn't know what problems it had to deal with. It was also in 1988, the year of the European Football Championship and the Christmas speech of Queen Beatrix, in which the VVD warned: if technical measures do not produce enough, we will reduce livestock. And where are we now? The nitrogen crisis is silenced in the Millions Note. You cannot hide behind the missionary status of this cabinet, not least because there is a court ruling that the Netherlands must abide by. Mr. Chairman. I heard the group chairman of the VVD ask the cabinet, if I have understood her correctly: what can this outgoing cabinet do to prepare good decision-making for the next cabinet? I liked that question. We missed that in the Millions note in front of us. We are dealing with a climate crisis, a natural crisis and a housing crisis. The least a outgoing cabinet could do is at least analyse the problems and explain how it has tried to solve the problems in recent years and how it has failed over and over again. That would be a good start, so that a new cabinet and also the Chamber do not make the same mistake over and over again. Thinking that everyone in the Netherlands is doing better if you are good for the big boys at the top, is a classic mistake of thinking that we should delete. Thinking that you protect the health of people in the area of Tata Steel if you put the Netherlands in maximum favour of business, has been a classic mistake of thinking. We would all "scare" now, I do it with quotes that those permits have always left room for serious health damage. Surely we could have seen that coming if you were to regulate your entire country on facilitating businesses, without putting hard limits on the protection of health and the environment that people are entitled to? Thinking that you can improve people's food environment and environment if you make non-binding dates with business, with a Prevention Agreement, that companies can decide for themselves whether and how they're going to make the food healthier that people depend on...All these agreements and all these covenants have proven to be failure instruments over and over again. Where's that analysis in the Millions Note, if you think a next cabinet should solve problems? Mr. Chairman. Nitrogen might still be the biggest. I pay a great deal of attention to this, including in the debate with my fellow Members. I keep asking for reflection, because spreading fake news hasn't started with a few influencers on social media. The spread of fake news about the problems we face has started with people like Henk Bleker and with parties like the VVD and the CDA, who constantly ridiculed the seriousness of the problems and have constantly said to farmers: if you invest in that stable, then you can just keep on doing so. Thousands of stables that have not been tested under the law that was in force at that time have simply been legalised by this cabinet and previous cabinets. And now farmers in the newspaper have to read that because of the major nitrogen problem, there is an opinion from the land attorney that permits must be taken. What do you think that does to farmers, after they've been told for years: no, just put that air washer on it, then we'll subsidise you, even a little investment, nothing to worry about? That reflection will have to take place. Because if you don't tell the Netherlands, if you don't tell the farmers that we are beyond the environmental limits and that changes will be needed, people will think when the debates come: where does this nitrogen problem suddenly come from; why haven't I heard about it before, why has my government always pretended to be okay? If you don't make that analysis, if you don't take the responsibility to reflect on your own actions, then you already know that parties that are going to oppose those measures are going to shout very loudly and organise very firm resistance. It is up to the VVD and the CDA, who have looked away here for years, to take the responsibility to ensure that farmers and people in the Netherlands understand why these measures are needed and to give farmers time and space to make that change possible, and to buy them out if necessary. It is necessary that CDA and VVD take the lead in explaining to the taxpayer how it came about. I just asked them: if things go wrong with the plans you present every time, who's gonna have to pay for the damage, the state, and the taxpayer? Or are you just gonna take away the permits from farmers? I'm very curious. This is the answer we need to hear. Years of looking away now require horse resources such as expropriation and withdrawal of permits to buy off the failure of the Rutte Cabinets and before that the Balkenende Cabinets. Mr. Chairman. We are of course glad that there is a small movement on climate. But I would remind the cabinet and also the rest of the Chamber that the Netherlands should have kept to its own climate agreements for a long time and that the Urgendavonnis is actually embarrassing. The fact that citizens have to go to court to ask their own government to keep the agreement that citizens in the Netherlands are protected from dangerous climate change is shameful. The verdict will not be enforced again for this year. Now we have to applaud for a package of 6.8 billion. The first question then is whether the targets will be met in 2022. Can the Prime Minister clarify that? The second question is: why is this all? Why do we not see an end to fossil subsidies, facilitating the fossil industry, which can reach 8 billion a year? Why do we not see an end to subsidies for biomass? There is a clear statement in the First Chamber: we no longer approve subsidies for biomass. How does this cabinet view a budget containing these subsidies by getting the Upper Chamber? I'm very curious. Where is the cabinet's joint call towards citizens, who are told "do a trip strip; invest in a heat pump; check your tire pressure"? Where are the actions of this cabinet from which citizens can feel "oh yeah, we'll do it together"? So that the cabinet says: in the middle of the climate crisis we do not open another airport and we keep the scarce nature at Utrecht, near Amelisweerd, as it is, because we are not going to build any more asphalt. Where are these measures? And where is this cabinet's position on the major nitrogen debate, which is really going to play, that if farmers in the Netherlands have to change, and that is what we need to protect them from unfair competition from countries like Brazil? This Chamber is against the Mercosur Convention, but the cabinet has not yet made a clear statement towards the European Commission, in which it says: The Netherlands does not support it, because we do not think it fair that farmers in the Netherlands should be kept to sustainability requirements, while products from Brazil, which may be produced well below these standards, are on the market here in the Netherlands. Why don't we find that in the Millions Note? Mr. Chairman. For years, the outgoing Prime Minister has made solutions difficult with the VVD and with the CDA by undermining the acceptance of himself, by always being a little ridiculous about climate change and always being ridiculous about nature conservation. Now screens with the argument of acceptance, the Party for Animals doesn't just go in. So I'm very curious about the changes that the VVD and the CDA show. According to Rutte, we should not go crazy about the climate, because we should be able to continue barbecuing. Mr. Chairman. Then we wonder: how does that relate to the disgust with the bio-industry that we knew of him? And where in the Millions note was actually taken into account the legislative amendment approved by the House of Representatives and the First Chamber which says: from 1 January 2023, animals should be able to live in livestock farming by their nature? I believe that in 2022 you will have to free up money to work on it. We have looked very hard and we found EUR 1 million in the budget, for animal welfare and to tackle barn fires. EUR 1 million for 617 000 animals per year, which is less than 0.002 cents per animal. I don't think that's gonna make it. I like to see better proposals. Mr. Chairman. We live in times of great change and the changes are about our own living environment. If we can believe the analyses, man is the most intelligent species on earth, but we are also the only species that saws the branch on which we sit. "We don't inherit the planet from our parents, but we borrow it from our children" is a widely heard statement. In the meantime, we have to conclude that we did not borrow the earth, but stole it. And it's time to pay back. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister and his comrades in the Demissionary Cabinet know from the Animal Party that we do not support a budget that does not send on a viable earth for humans and animals, on justice, on action within the rule of law, and which does not send to do justice to people who have been grossly wronged by this government in the Surgery affair. If, over the next few days and over the next few weeks, we can adjust the budget in such a way that it does go for a viable earth, operate within the rule of law and do justice to people, then you can expect a green tick from the Party for Animals and not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u276	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u277	Madam President. Almost two weeks ago, I spent a day with "Harky" Klinefelter. He was a close associate of Martin Luther King. When he was 20, he joined the civil rights movement and walked along, among other things towards Selma, the famous march over the bridge. He is now an old vicar who lives in Steenwijkerwold, an eighty-year-old, but still passionate. He shared a detail with me last Friday that touched me. Here's what he said. When we went into a city like this and we walked there, we knew: "We were surrounded by a hostile crowd. Sooner or later, we'll run into police officers who won't back down from violence." But one thing, he said, we said to each other: always keep eye contact. Because as long as people see you as a human being, as long as you have eye contact, you're not a thing and they can't do what they want. Keep eye contact. That is a lesson that we can well take to heart here and now in very different circumstances. In politics The Hague and our society, especially in the corona era, there is talk of polarisation, of mutual distrust. It turns out that today we notice that we are working together politically in a good way. And when we differ about corona policy, sometimes it's so intense that we call each other names for either a wappie or QRankling. But just at this time, right now, this is a lesson from "Harky" Klinefelter: keep eye contact. Also a service government stands or falls with having eye contact. Like a lot of people here this week, I've seen the documentary only against the state. I was just talking to Mrs Leijten and Mrs Marijnissen quoted it. Heartbreaking stories of women, of mothers, crushed by the state, who are bitter, humiliated by government trade. Now we can talk about a new governance culture, an open governance culture, but when it comes to something, it's a government that keeps eye contact, eye contact with its own people so that they can't be dismissed as fraud or as a file, as a thing, but that they always remain human. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister what's going on with the plans to work on that other government. We have said that any letter from the government should be signed with name and name, with a telephone number and with an email address. The government needs to be reachable, get a face. Has legislation already been checked for hardness clauses so that we do not necessarily treat people who are all different from each other equally, or does that hardness clause allow us to look and do justice to every human being? Can the Prime Minister brief us on this? So much for Harcourt Klinefelter's lesson: let's keep eye contact with each other. Mr. Chairman. In these politically complicated times it might be more advisable to talk less about our differences with others and talk more about our ideals for this country. This debate is the place for that. This summer I read this book: The second mountain, written by David Brooks, a columnist. If the Prime Minister still needs reading for the United Nations General Assembly, I'd be happy to give it to him. I do with my notes, but then he can see immediately what I think is important. This is a beautiful book, a search for a meaningful life. It describes two mountains. It starts at that first mountain. That first mountain is the mountain of self-development, in which it revolves around yourself, about your unique self. It's the mountain of taking your chances, the mountain of money, right, image. The companies on that first mountain go for maximum profit, if necessary at the expense of people, if necessary at the expense of nature. The unique experiences you want on that first mountain, of course, go by plane. Life on the first mountain weighs heavily on our society and on the creation and climate. We are driven up that first mountain by a passionate speech at a graduation ceremony where that passionate teacher says: "Just follow your dream. If you take chances, reach for the stars. It's possible!" We have successful movie stars, sports heroes, influencers who show on our Instagram beautiful pictures of a successful life and tell their stories: that they struggled, but have conquered. Look at them. They're successful. They tell us you have to take the chances you get. Swiss life is a matter of choice. It's a choice. But there's only one thing that has to happen, and then you really fall off that mountain. Then you end up in a valley, in a crisis. Such a personal crisis may take a short or long time, but that second mountain is ahead of you. And that's the mountain where it's no longer just about yourself, but it's about lasting commitments, about loyalty, about caring for each other, about self-sacrifice. It's a meaningful life where you know that we're all little scribblers, vulnerable people, and that we're only gonna make it if other people help us. The entrepreneurs on the second mountain take good care of their staff and do not want their work to be at the expense of nature, of creation. It's a small step from this book by David Brooks to our political choices here and now. For every choice we make, either pushes us up the first mountain or the second mountain. Our tax system actually assumes that you are mainly an individual and that especially paid work makes you happy. People who choose in their place in their family life to take care of a little more and to work a little less are being punished more and more taxly. I have already spoken with Mr Heerma about the loan scheme, which is actually based entirely on the idea of the first mountain. It is a perfect expression of the meritocratic promise: if you work hard, if you invest in yourself, if you take the risk, you can take your chances and reach for the stars. Then that is €30,000, €40,000 debt peanuts, because this country and this life will reward you richly for all your efforts. But the merciless downside of that meritocratic promise when life is a bit off, if you don't graduate in time, if you still make a debt, if you don't have that great job, if you get into debt unexpectedly, is that you failed in taking your chances, that it's your own fault, but then it's really your own fault. Meanwhile, you have less chance of a permanent job in the Netherlands today, because our flexible labour market is entirely designed by people who are on top of that first mountain, by people who are fine themselves, who have indeed taken their chances. But if you're unlucky and go from temporary job to temporary job, earn less than average, rather have health problems, then you haven't taken your chances. And if you make a mistake in correspondence with the government, or an alleged mistake, then you don't have to count on the mercy of the government, so thousands of parents noticed in the childcare allowance affair. And the moment you finally get rid of your debts, your kids are just about old enough to start making their own debts. It's like some kind of sisyphic work: no matter how high you roll that rock, it always comes down. No matter how hard you work, no matter how much you work, debt will always crush you. In the meantime, housing has become a housing market. This is also thought up by people who are very warm on top of that first mountain themselves. Houses are meant to live in, but they have, because of uninhibited market work, become profit factories, for speculators, for house milkers, for foreign investors. Meanwhile, starters barely have a chance and half of the tenants have money worries. A quarter of the tenants can therefore no longer pay the basic expenses for the whole normal life. In large parts of our country, a normal home for a normal family is no longer payable. We don't live to live anymore, but we work to live. That's not right. Of course, there's a lot going on in this country. This cabinet too has done a lot of good. There is finally ambitious climate policy. There's a lot more money for education, a lot more money for security. There's a pension agreement. There is better integration policy. A change is being made to circular agriculture. There is quality very good care. And our country is surprisingly strong from the corona crisis. But all those blessings are far from always fairly divided. We're abandoning some people too much. In particular, people with a lower salary who have more insecurity in their work, are finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet and have lost an increasing proportion of their income to living. And on average, they live seven years shorter. Mrs Marijnissen recalled that as well. She also reminded Moerwijk of the differences we have, which I have just published here, there are also similarities, Mrs Marijnissen. But it is these people who live in Moerwijk, in moldy houses and with a concentration of social problems around the house. That's what both of us care about. This is not a natural phenomenon, but the result of our political choices, about how we distribute our wealth, our incomes, our jobs, our homes. Just that group of practically trained people, according to the SCP, have less and less confidence in the government and in their fellow human beings. Do you think it's crazy, I'd say. It is precisely this group of people who are practically skilled that we should once again compete with migrant workers from other parts of the European Union, who we often pay worse and live in moderate conditions. When they lose their jobs, they often lose their homes and get homeless somewhere in the big cities on the street. And our big cities notice that. Moreover, young people, in particular, who are increasingly in debt, are finding it increasingly difficult to survive, are increasingly dependent on temporary jobs, which do not pay enough to pay for one of these overpriced dwellings. In the hectic of study and performance pressure, almost half of the 18-plussers now indicate that they are lonely. Madam President. We promised a whole generation a golden first mountain. But many of us have ended up in a valley, with more debts, more loneliness, more uncertainty and less illusions. There is also a second mountain. That's the life where your happiness isn't determined by the job you have, not by the money you own and not by what other people think of you. It is a life in which you are faithful to the friends and loved ones around you. It is a life in which you commit yourself to your calling, in which entrepreneurs add value, pay their staff well and spare creation. It is a life in which you share your life in hospitality and generosity with people who come on your path. It is a life with more "we" than "I," a life in which your heart, your soul and your relationships with the people around you are more important than the number of likes on social media. It is a life in harmony with the creation, which we no longer exhaust, no longer pollute and take away, a life that will produce completely different reports from the IPCC than today's life. Madam President. Bringing happiness is not a primary government task. I would say, quite the contrary. Beware of the government that forces you to be happy. But political choices can bring the second mountain I was talking about closer. That starts with doing justice to people, making fewer false promises and more just political choices. Because it's a political choice to do people justice. We do people justice by curbing the housing market and making housing affordable through housing. We are doing their right by reforming the tax system without surcharges, so that our prosperity is distributed more fairly and people are better able to combine work and care. We do that by paying people in health care better. We are doing this by abolishing the loan system and reintroducing the basic grant. We are doing people justice by narrowing the gap between fixed work and flex work and by living as a society in a better balance with creation and by offering farmers more perspective with circular agriculture. We are doing them justice not only by talking about a new governance culture, but also by really focusing on a serviceable government that has eye contact, which is merciful and just for its own citizens. And I say to ourselves here: we do this by working together, even in these days, so that this year and this budget will not become a lost year and a lost budget. Madam President. I started my speech with Harky Klinefelter, Dr. Martin Luther King's closest associate. I'd like to end up with Martin Luther King himself. He once had a dream, a dream for his country, a dream for his children about a country in which his children would no longer be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. In our polarized time we are also longing again for a vision, for a dream, for hope, for a second mountain, I would say. In the last speech before he was shot, Martin Luther King once shared his greatest dream and his ultimate hope. I like to share it here and now, as a source of inspiration for all of us. It is the end of his last speech in Memphis, on the evening of April 3, 1968, the day before he was to be shot. He thinks he's on a mountain and has a beautiful view. He then says: "I've seen the promised land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the promised country! So I'm not worried about anything. I'm not hearing any man! For my eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u278	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u279	I think Mr Jetten is about to jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u280	I see it. Mr Jetten of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u281	A few days ago, Jewish organizations called on the House of Representatives to distance themselves from comparisons between the holocaust and the coronapandemic. Following that appeal from Jewish organizations, Mr Baudet tweeted the world. In that tweet he placed the holocaust between quotes. I found that very inappropriate towards all the relatives of Jewish families, Sinti and Roma who lost their relatives during the Holocaust. I would like to ask Mr Baudet whether he would like to apologize for using the quotes on 'the Holocaust'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u282	I don't see why I have to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u283	That's very sad. Let me read out a few things to Mr Baudet. Mosjee Hammelburg, age 6. Mourits Hammelburg, 43 years old. Moses Hammelburg, 65 years old. Nathan Hammelburg, 50 years old. Nathan Hammelburg, 48 years old. Salomon Hammelburg, 10 years old. Those are the names of relatives of Alexander Hammelburg, Member of Parliament for D66. He lost a large part of his family in World War II. And like the Hammelburg family, there are many Dutch families, Jewish, Roma or Sinti, who were almost completely murdered by the Holocaust. Can you imagine that those Dutch find it incredibly hurtful as a member of this house the Holocaust takes place in quotes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u284	No. It was a quote. When I quote people, I put that in quotes. Something was said about what a colleague of my group would have said. And he didn't say that, so I said that's not the point at all. It was a reference to a debate that Gideon van Meijeren did last week. He said: listen, what happened in the 1930s, namely that people were systematically excluded from social life... That happened not only with Jews, but also with all kinds of other people. This also happened in the 1950s, with the Jim Crow laws in the southern states of the United States, where Rosa Parks and others, like the Martin Luther King, were fighting. This is therefore about the fundamental debate between equality, equal rights, of which my party is in favour, and discrimination, of which your party is in favour. I understand that you are taking the flight forward, so with this happening, but you are really responsible for the re-introducing of discrimination, the re-introducing of apartheid in the Netherlands. And it's been a long time since we've had that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u285	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u286	What a disgusting response from Mr Baudet. Disgusting, I think! He doesn't have the guts to make excuses for placing the word "Holocaust" between quotes in a tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u287	It was a quote!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u288	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u289	It doesn't matter that was a quote. It doesn't matter. Nor am I concerned with the ridiculous comparisons between the corona pandemic and the 1930s or the 1940s. I ask you: do you understand that Dutch Jewish, Roma and Sinti families feel deeply and deeply offended when you place the Holocaust in quotes? I would once again call on Mr Baudet to stop doing so, out of respect for all the relatives of that terrible time in our recent history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u290	No, I don't understand any of that. I was wrongly thrown in my face. I responded to that and said, "We didn't say that." As far as I know, no one has said that what is happening now with the systematic exclusion of people who rely on their natural immune systems of society is the same as killing people. I don't think anyone said that. I think this is what happened. There's a discussion going on: guys, what's going on here, and when have we seen this before? So there are two things hypocritical about what Rob Jetten is doing here, and all kinds of other people in his wake. The first is that he, they, the people who say this, is primarily responsible for a form of discrimination, a form of exclusion for millions of people. There are really unequal rights. This is true on the one hand, and secondly, it is true that they have been holding the entire political debate hostage for decades with an obsession with the Second World War. Were you against immigration? "Do you know who else was against immigration?" Were you against the European Union? "You know who else was a nationalist?" Were you raising the horror of modern art? "You know who else was against modern art?" Or if you said something about dozens of other subjects, it was always the first and only thing our opponents could think of: "Nazi, World War II, blablabla, fascism." And now for the first time, something's actually happening. Legal inequality: it is the first time that we have experienced this on our territory, in our countries. We say, guys, we've seen this before. We have learned from history in the 1950s and 1960s in the United States and in the 1930s and 1940s in Europe. Before that there were many other examples in the ancien régime for 1800. We don't want that. We stand for equality. We stand for equal rights. I will tell you one thing: I assume that I will not get this quatsch thrown at me again. I know that there are a lot of people, including people with Jewish roots and a very complex history of war, including Israel, who say: this cannot be done; we do not want this to happen again. Also in my family, Mr. Jetten, by the way. Not that it matters for my argument, but I just wanted to say that. So, yes, you can claim the moral high ground again with this story, but it's ricocheting at me. I think you should take a closer look in the mirror. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u291	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jetten because he is now being addressed personally. I shall also give the floor to Mr Segers. Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u292	Mr President, I will stop interrupting after this. But I would like to say one more thing to Mr Baudet. Mr. Baudet, shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u293	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u294	Oh, my God, level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u295	And then I propose that Mr Baudet start his speech. But first of all, Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u296	The Jewish star was the beginning that ended in Auschwitz. If Jewish organizations and relatives say: "Would you be able to demonstrate in another way and use other words? You can say the same thing, and you can really raise all your objections in total freedom. You may say that it is all terrible what the cabinet has done, but would you please refrain from our symbols?" Is it really too much to ask and is it really so hard to bring up that decency and say: okay, then we're going to do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u297	I'm not walking around with a Jew star. But I don't think I should tell other people not to. I do not think that all of these three Jewish organisations should be involved. I don't think they're allowed to claim the war. World War II is about a lot of things. That is a very interesting, very complex historical issue. But it is not the property of a particular group or of a particular ethnicity. It's a debate. I hear Mr. De Jonge also wants to get involved in the debate; that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u298	Mr Baudet has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u299	I don't think I've somehow been guilty of something that's not allowed, which can't be, or what's immoral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u300	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u301	Finally, because I do not think we are making much progress. It's very specific about the use of symbols that go back to the persecution of the Jews, to that which ended in 6 million deaths. That's what it's about. It's about yellow stars, about references...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u302	But what do you want from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u303	Mr Segers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u304	Your colleague Gideon van Meijeren drew it in parallel. You've placed an ad. That was a reason for Mr Van Haga to leave your club. So you've made a mistake. Now comes a very penetrating question from people who carry the wounds. The names have just been read. We now have a name monument in Amsterdam with all the names on it. Family members stand there and say: this hurts so much. Furthermore, it is legitimate criticism, all of which is legal, but could you express your political differences in a different way, with other symbols? That's a compelling, friendly request. It's not that hard to say, but of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u305	I would be more inclined to listen to these Jewish organizations if they had also stirred up over the past decades if the Second World War were to be dragged back in to silence people who were against mass immigration. If they had done so, if they were actually concerned with protecting a particular, specific historical heritage, apart from historical and political context in the present, I would have taken them more seriously. But because they don't... A few days ago Jorrit Rijpma said at Nieuwsuur: the immigration situation with Afghanistan is actually just like we would say to Jews now "you can't enter." I didn't hear the Jewish organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u306	Thank you. Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u307	That selective outrage... we're not gonna be blackmailed and pushed into some kind of political corner. I give everyone his past and I respect everyone's story. But we tell our story and we draw our lessons and parallels from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u308	Mr Baudet, I think it is a good thing that we do not discuss this matter anymore and that you begin your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u309	Okay. Mr President, colleagues in office, members of the cabinet, today I am once again addressing all people in the Netherlands: vaccinated or unvaccinated, afraid of corona or not, angry journalist or open mind. To speak to Hans van Mierlo: I am going to try to say it right. I will also publish this text in full with footnotes and sources on our site. In 2009, Ab Osterhaus published a famous article in the renowned international journal Vaccine. It was titled: Vaccine-induced enhancement of viral infections. In Dutch: vaccine-induced worsening of viral infections. The aim is that by rapidly mutating viruses such as the coronavirus, the antibodies generated by vaccines lose their protective effect very quickly and that precisely these antibodies can then strengthen future infections. The process is called antibody-dependent enhancement. Many immunologists and virologists have since confirmed this mechanism. Last year, for example, this was described extensively in the renowned scientific journal Nature. I'll explain the mechanism. Unlike conventional vaccines, which integrate weakened or paralyzed viruses into your body, so that your immune system can quietly develop antibodies that can control a virus in its entirety, similar to the natural experience of infection, the experimental corona vaccines stimulate your body to produce itself a single specific protein of the incidentally dozens of protein chains long coronavirus. That's how the vaccines work. That one protein is called the spike protein. This protein is called because it looks like a nail. Producing this protein can be done in two ways: via mRNA, a technique used by Pfizer and Moderna, or through another modified virus, called adenovirus, a technique used by Janssen, AstraZeneca and Sputnik. Whatever you want to call it, of course, is always the subject of discussion, but Robert Malone, inventor of the mRNA technique, calls it "genetherapy-based vaccines." That is also why this government decided to greatly simplify authorisation applications for gene therapy, as can be seen in the March 2020 State News. These mRNA vaccines use very small particles, nanoparticles, which as a kind of fat spheres move the active vaccine substance through the body. Those particles are not harmless and give significant side effects, like the protein produced by the vaccine, which also causes quite a lot of side effects. Because correctly diagnosing and recording these side effects is not easy, the true extent of the side effects has become playball estimates. But so far, corrected for the higher absolute numbers of vaccinations, have been reported to have relatively twenty times as many people suffering from side effects as with other vaccines. Relatively, there are even 60 times more reported deaths. Once again, this is after correction for the number of shots inserted. I've got a graph right here. These are appalling figures, which cannot simply be swept away. Maybe it can be photocopied and distributed. Nevertheless, the intended action of the vaccines is plausible in itself, namely the production in the body of spike proteins. Because the alpha or Wuhan variant of corona contains a protein that is very similar to that spike protein, the human immune system could theoretically be trained by that spike protein to fight corona infection. However, by now many new variants of COVID-19 have been formed, which no longer have such a protein. These mutations thus escape the action of the current vaccine. Unfortunately, as Ab Osterhaus's 2009 study shows, it is not a question of "if it does not harm it," because the spike protein can potentially reverse the immune system. Last month, a study appeared in the Journal of Infection which seems to show that vaccinees already have an enhanced response to the current delta variant and are therefore more at risk of becoming seriously ill than unvaccinated. An extremely worrying finding, which in our view is one of the main problems of the current vaccination programme. But what danger would this semi-mandatory experimental object, with dubious effect, have to protect us from? Let's take another look at the facts about corona. The infection fatality rate, i.e. the lethality of corona, is on average 0.23% worldwide. For people under the age of 70, it is 0.05%. That is the same order of magnitude as a heavy flu and so low that it does not, in my view, justify the uncertainties and risks of the current experimental vaccines at all. So purely for health reasons, I would advise everyone under 70 not to take a shot like that. For people over 70, the vaccines might be worth the consideration, although the group most likely to die due to corona... the average age of people dying from corona is 83 years.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That revealed a study in Nature last June. Still remain about the young, but as hospital director Maurice van den Bosch of the OLVG wrote: vaccination for this age group has no profit for those involved; it is up to us to explain to the pharmaceutical companies that there is no place for introduction within this age group. Yet now mirabile dictatu, shots are being prepared for toddlers and toddlers. Why the hell? And why did the entire Chamber vote for the placement of corona on the A list of infectious diseases, the list of most deadly killers that exist on Earth, such as Ebola? The far-reaching, freedom-absorber measures can only be taken legally if such a very dangerous virus is present. But it's obvious and uncontested that corona doesn't belong in that category. And why were well-functioning and decades old medicines such as ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine suddenly declared extremely dangerous and even banned? Is that perhaps because the use of an experimental vaccine is still so, mind you! If first-line medicines were available, wouldn't they be allowed at all? And why isn't the serological test allowed, which allows you to see through a blood sample if someone has antibodies? Why do people who have been through corona naturally, like me, and thus have long been better protected than people who have been vaccinated, still have to take a shot? And why do the people who have taken the experimental and limited vaccine not need to test for access, while the people who refuse to take it should test, even though we know that people who have been vaccinated can just get corona and simply transfer it? Maybe they're even more likely to do that, because they're more likely to be slightly symptomatic. What do you mean those mouth caps, which contain holes that can pass through about 100 million virus particles and therefore not work at all? Why does the budget before us go 2 billion towards testing infrastructure, vaccines and vaccination streets, but has the ic capacity still not been scaled up in the last 18 months? I thought we were taking care of it. And finally. Why a QR code that allows central, digital registration and control instead of the excellent working yellow booklet that has been tried and tested for decades? All these things defy the mind. There's no logic in it. Zero. The whole story doesn't add up. There can only be one conclusion. The aim of the corona policy is not to protect public health, as the EU's objective is not trade or cooperation, as the aim of immigration is not to help the vulnerable and as the aim of climate policy is not to protect nature, the environment or the planet. So we're back to square one. In the last year and a half I have seen that the deception we have seen for a long time in the three major projects that are destroying our world, cutting off our old roots and carrying out the attack on the nation state, also exists in relation to corona. It all serves a completely different agenda, an agenda that is referred to by terms such as 'the great reset' and 'Build Back Better'. It is an agenda which is being rolled out globally and which seems to have the whole world in its grip. It is not difficult to see what the next steps will be. First of all, the vaccination rounds will be repeated: probably every six months. Today Israel announced that vaccination passports will only be valid for six months, even after the third injection. So that means every six months all these side effects and all that dangerous gene therapy. Australia will also require a third shot to participate in social life from January. There will be new lockdowns to force people to take those vaccines. Look again at Australia. Freedom is becoming conditional, conditional. The economy, especially SMEs, will weaken and become dependent on the almighty government with a more central role for mainstream media and an increasingly tightly regulated Internet. Last week it was also announced that the credit card companies are working on a system to centrally record and maximize the CO-print of all your purchases, so that you can no longer spend, once you have reached your CO-tax. TNO also suggested something like this, to the great enthusiasm of RTL News. In connection with this, we see the cash being phased out. There will be a ban on cash payments of more than €3,000 and banks will encourage retailers and catering establishments to accept only cash payments. With banks in fact having to give all the information about their customers to the government due to ever increasing compliance rules, this also leads to an increasing control power with the state, as all payments become known, visible and traceable. Who knows what you're spending your money on, actually knows everything about you. The final phase................................................................................................................. That last stage is the integration of all these issues. Health passport, CO footprint, spending pattern, internet search history and behaviour in one central, digital identity. Let me scan your QR code. The system runs on super fast 5G internet. That is why they wanted to push that through last year. I didn't understand that back then. Now I understand. All these systems are connected by 5G to the smart city and to the smart household. Undoubtedly, all these follow-up steps will be presented as useful things for the citizen. The abolition of cash money is called a measure against organised crime. A digital refrigerator, so you never forget to buy fresh milk, as a reminder for when you're in the supermarket. It's so easy. Or a timely warning when you go over your CO tax as a favor, so you don't have to miss your weekend break. It's practically all of them, but those QR codes never go away. They're gonna be the new normal. That is what it was about: the QR society, where good behavior is rewarded with access to social life and bad behavior is punished with a red-colored scanner. They are the new traits of the new despotism Alexis de Tocqueville already provided. I quote: "A despotism in which an immense state has taken each individual into its powerful hands and covered society with a network of small, complicated, minute and uniform rules, which the most original minds and the strongest souls can no longer get through to transcend the masses. The state does not break their will, but weakens, twists and guides it. He rarely forces action, but constantly resists one's action. He's not destroying, he's obstructing the formation. He doesn't tyranny, he interferes, he suppresses, he disturbs, he extinguishs, he punches off, and eventually he reduces every nation to a herd of shy, diligent animals whose state is the shepherd." Corona is the alibi, the pretext, the reason to bring about the new world order that has been prepared and desired for a long time. Already in 2016 the UN decided to give all people on earth a digital identity for daily use. Specific reference was made to the integration of driving licences, bank accounts, media and health records. In that year, EU and UN also introduced a global vaccination strategy, with the aim of giving all people in the world a digital health certificate. Thus, the infrastructure of a social credit system including mass surveillance according to Chinese model has in fact been laid much earlier. Now it's about medical records and some other basic data. Next year or the following year a CO tax will be added. After that, financial data will be linked and your personal IP address will be linked to your biometric data or facial recognition, so that your entire internet traffic can be monitored. And then the trap really collapses. That's how it's all connected. In 2016 it seemed that the populists could sometimes win: the Ukraine referendum was won, Brexit, the miraculous rise of Donald Trump. The globalism that took shape in mass immigration into the EU and in climate thinking would be punished by election victory on election victory of people like us. But now a way has been found to continue the desired direction. Globalist socialism is the fusion of neoliberal multinational thinking and ethatic welfare state thinking. As James Burnham predicted 60 years ago, big government and big business go hand in hand to complete that: the QR company, with total government control and unlimited possibilities for an almighty state. It is therefore not the case that corona is the only subject for Forum for Democracy. We are still opposed to the ever-increasing integration of the EU, to the open borders, to the insecurity in the streets, to the unfolding of care for the elderly and to the bizarre climate plans of this outgoing cabinet. We still stand for our culture and our way of life, for our farmers, our businesses, for direct democracy and for traditional architecture. So before we can talk meaningfully about the policy choices made in this budget, we need to understand the background, the great reason. That is why they do not listen to our arguments at all. They don't care, because it's not about arguments at all. It is a completely different agenda that lies behind this. It's all a sham. We're in Plato's cave. We're watching the show. It's not about the climate at all. It's not about helping people. It's not about trade. They're not about public health. It's a whole different agenda. So before we can even talk about money and Ic-beds, we need to understand why the ic-capacity is not being scaled up. Because they want to keep pressure on the care, so they can keep pressure on the vaccinations, so they can push through that QR thing. And before we can talk about the housing shortage caused by a fabricated nitrogen problem or the housing shortage caused by massive immigration, it is essential to see how people are ripening minds for nitrogen lockdowns and climate lockdowns, while further weakening social cohesion in our countries. They threaten to be set up against each other, instead of fighting side by side for our common rights and freedoms. So we're the same party we've always been. We still stand for the same values, the same country and the same tradition. But the playing field has changed, because the opponent has launched another attack. We will form as broad a front as possible to stop and resist that attack. That's FVD's mission, that's my mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u310	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. There is an interruption by Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u311	Mr. Chairman. I'm a democrat and I'm proud of the trust that people have given me. That is why I stayed behind, despite Mr Baudet's disgusting lyrics. But now that he has come to the end of his speech, I want to make it clear that on my behalf and on behalf of my party, I strongly distance myself from the disgusting comparisons he and his companions are making between the corona crisis in which we now find ourselves and the Holocaust, and the terrible dedain with which he throws away the suffering of so many people. I find it appalling that, in the heart of our democracy, an elected representative of the people believes that such texts are acceptable here in the Netherlands. They're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u312	Could Mrs Ploumen give a literal quote so that it becomes clear what she means? It is unclear to me where this commotion comes from. What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u313	I would like to say to Mr Baudet that your words do not deserve to be spoken again by anyone. Again, I distance myself from it. And again, in the heart of our democracy, it hurts me that someone thinks that they can continue to make such disgusting comparisons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u314	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u315	Again, I do not know what Mrs Ploumen means. I'm not aware of it. But of course that's with a lot of things, because it's a bit intellectually confused here. First of all... A comparison is not equal. Basically, you can compare everything in the world and then you come across similarities and differences. I think she means equality. Well, I'm totally unaware that someone has said: the current corona measures are the same as killing people or the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. I don't understand what she means by that at all. I'm totally unaware of that, too. So if anyone has said that, I would like to see that quoted, then I can respond to that. Furthermore, Mrs Ploumen says that the words are so bad that I am not going to repeat them. That's kind of like being in a Kafka novel. You're being accused of something, but we're not gonna tell you what you're being accused of. I just don't know what she means. What I have seen is that a very brilliant new Member of Parliament of the Forum for Democracy, Gideon van Meijeren, said not by himself, but after he was triggered to do so, that there is a parallel to the 1930s. I would add that, and I will continue to do so, because I think it is very important that over the last 50 years our political opponents, the people who have destroyed our world, have destroyed Western civilization, and so on, but had one argument: never again Auschwitz; never again this; never again that. Nazi, racist, fascist, Hitler, you name it all. That was all they could think of. When we said: 'boys, not too much immigration', we got in response: 'nationalist! Do you know who else was a nationalist?" For 50 years, the political debate was about nothing but World War II. We are not working on World War II all day long. Apparently, someone said that once. I think that's fine, but the fact that I'm being attacked on this now is a kind of inversion of what you've been doing all day for the last 50 years. Get over it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u316	Mr. Baudet, I would very much like to close this subject. Mr Baudet explained it and colleagues responded. I have already said in an earlier debate what I, as President of this Chamber, think of that. I would like to end this matter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u317	Perhaps Mr Dassen has a very different kind of question, for example about one of the scientific journals I am discussing or about autoimmune deficiency problems caused by gene therapy and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u318	I think you're at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u319	And what a pleasure to be able to look at Mr. De Jonge's beautiful back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u320	Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u321	Mr. Chairman. Then very briefly, because what has just been said is shameless and disgusting. I also welcome the interruptions by Mr Jetten, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Segers, because some things must not go unnamed. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. If you ask me how we stand, the answer seems simple: it should be better in Europe, in the Netherlands and certainly here in The Hague. We soon succumb to this feedback loop of fuss and personal rivalries. Well, I guess I'll start with something positive first. Over the last few months, I can see that Members of Parliament are also working hard, especially for better education, social law and a well-functioning rule of law. Oh, thank God! It is therefore an honour for us, three new MPs of Volt, to take part in these General Political Reviews today. Luckily, because I am here in a Lower House with members like Kati Piri and Derk Boswijk, I do not see them sitting in the room who are involved in the debates about Afghanistan, Sophie Hermans and Rob Jetten, who manage to write a document together or Silvio Erkens, who tries to break a taboo on nuclear energy. In politics, we often increase conflicts, but when I look at the work they are doing here, I also see that we can work together. I see a new generation who dares to take the lead. They are doing what is expected of us: building bridges and finding solutions. Mr. Chairman. Then I come back to my question: where do we stand? Of course, it depends a little on who you ask. If you ask the Prime Minister, he is proud to say, as he did yesterday in the NIS, that we VVDs are not so negative. Good, I'm not. I'm an optimist. But I am particularly optimistic when I look at what Dutch and Europeans achieve themselves. I'd like to come back to that later. I am a lot less positive when I see what is being baked in The Hague. When I read the Millions note, I see that the educational deficits are twice as high for children from lower-income groups. We're seeing a doubling of the number of homeless people compared to ten years ago. We see that the number of flex contracts has doubled in 15 years and is two and a half times more common among practically skilled people. And we see young people don't go to college because of the loan system. If you have to pay off debts like this, you can't buy a house on this absurd market without your parents' money. We've talked about house prices before today. It is not for nothing that thousands of 20s, 30s and 40s were protesting in Amsterdam ten days ago about the fundamental right to have a roof over their heads. House prices have risen by as much as 20% since the corona crisis. You understand where I'm going with this. How many examples do we need to show that inequality is increasing and that the government is not doing enough to counter this? How are we doing? If you see how Dutch, Germans and Belgians had to leave their homes head-on this summer due to major floods, you would even convince the biggest climate skeptic of the fact that climate change is a huge problem. At the same time, we see that the Netherlands is far behind the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. This week, the big news is that the government is investing EUR 6.8 billion in the energy transition. It's a nice step, but it's not nearly enough. It has been said many times today, but I would like to see a lot of political will behind this. But that 6.8 billion was imposed by the judge to comply with the Urgendavonnis. Then I wonder, and I ask the Prime Minister, whether this is enough ambition to combat climate change. Mr. Chairman. Europe will have an energy shortage next winter. Energy prices are rising and, at the same time, I read in the Millions Note that 650,000 households already live in energy poverty. How are we doing? In answering that question, let us not avoid the difficult issue of migration. Everyone in the world in need has the right to apply for asylum, especially in Europe, the continent of which the King said in the Throne on Tuesday that it is a value community; Europe, which stands for human rights. How could it have come to allow shipping companies to send boats back into the Mediterranean? How did we lower through this moral lower limit? And why does it take a year and a half to get your first hearing in the asylum procedure in the Netherlands? Is this what is meant by protecting our way of life? Mr. Chairman. When I ask where we stand, I look at challenges such as climate, increasing social inequality and migration. Then I also look at these other major challenges: digitalisation and the new economy. I myself grew up in Eindhoven, under the smoke of Philips, which Mr Dijkhoff mentioned two years ago in this place, and to which Mr Segers referred last year. Philips is one of those companies that the Netherlands is proud of, and rightly so. The company that conquered the world with the light bulb, radio and televisions was recently declared the most innovative company in the world in the field of health technology. You must forgive me for focusing on Brabant, where companies such as ASML and Lightyear are the innovative example. Are we doing enough to preserve the innovative character for the future? In 2010, we agreed that we would spend 3% of our GDP on research and development. We never made it. Also next year we will be stuck on a lean 2%. It's not just the percentage that matters to me. It is precisely the need to invest in the economy of the future that is at stake here. Mr. Chairman. We are on the verge of a new economy, which is developing rapidly in other countries. We can see that China is catching up with us in the field of artificial intelligence and that Europe is making an economic and strategic leap forward. The Netherlands should not only invest in research, but also come up with a strategy. It is up to the government to clearly guide the impact of digitalisation on society. What is the Prime Minister's view? Is there really enough discussion in the cabinet about these developments? Mr. Chairman. The Cyber Security Council recommends investing 833 million euros to further improve cyber security. Are these signals taken seriously? Mr. Chairman. Should it ever come to this, let us send the new cabinet to Brussels as soon as possible, so that they can, together with their colleagues, ensure that strategic economic sectors, such as chip producers, are brought to Europe. This way, we not only boost our economy, but also reduce our dependence on countries like China. Mr. Chairman. I know we have a missionary cabinet. That's why we're dealing with a policy-slow Millions note. That's all true. I therefore hope, of course, that there will be a new cabinet as soon as possible, so that we can get to grips with these major challenges. Mrs Hermans has 1 billion to distribute. That is a fine amount, but we must ensure that it does not distract from what it should be about: ensuring structural change. Let us not forget that we cannot start distributing the 5.8 billion from the European Recovery Fund quickly enough. I'll get to that in a minute. Let me stick to that question: where do we stand? We are experiencing a moment of political silence. We wait and we delay. This policy of postponing really did not begin until January, when the cabinet became decommissioned. In relation to the great challenge we face, the cabinet has been decommissioned for years. It is now going so far that citizens' confidence in politics is falling rapidly. This week, two different studies showed that more and more Dutch people distrust our institutions. Trust in the rule of law is falling. I am very concerned about that, because at a time when we are facing such great challenges, we need to bring everyone with us. The King spoke this week in his speech to the throne about the polarizing tone of the debate, which has become increasingly in the way of solutions. He's right. The cabinet also has its own bosom. From misinformed or late information of the Chamber and the maintenance of dubious double functions to the transition from minister to lobby organisations, the cabinet is increasingly taking a run at the rule of law. We must work to strengthen the rule of law. The fact that the Chamber adopted a motion last week on a two-year cooling-off period for directors is a good first step, but that is of course far from it. The causes of the mistrust are also deeper. Politics is failing to tackle the major crises. The corona crisis, the nitrogen crisis, the housing crisis, the climate crisis, they're asking for clear choices, for guts, for leadership. But instead we see too much of a policy of shuffling off. How can that be otherwise, if you do not want to get out of that national pillar and if you think that all problems can be solved in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Generation transcendent challenges require generation transcendent solutions. Cross-border challenges such as climate and digitalisation require cross-border solutions. And sector transcending and important challenges such as nitrogen demand a sector-wide approach. For all these challenges, politics should not be a bit forward-thinking. No, it's time to set a goal, formulate missions and get to work. Politics can take an example of society, which shows that it is much further in solving the major challenges, because while The Hague is waiting to make plans, Dutch people are getting started. For example in Steendam, a village in Groningen with 200 inhabitants. I see the Prime Minister's been there, too. A viability survey a few years ago clearly indicated the priority of the residents: fast internet. And so a year later, there was fiberglass in the village. Organised and constructed by the residents themselves. And with that success in their pocket, the residents go through and make a plan to take Steendam off the gas. And within a few years, they want to generate renewable energy themselves. A completely CO-neutral Steendam. Mr. Chairman. In Helmond I visited a company run by students, who for a year shut down their studies, despite the loan system, the shortages in student housing and the concerns about the quality of education. This is because they're stuck in a mission, with the aim of charging an electric car so fast in two years, in a few minutes, that it's like throwing a car full of diesel. They will be graduating a few years later because they want to force a breakthrough in the energy transition. But they've done a great job. Mr. Chairman. At primary school De Globetrotter in Rotterdam, teachers not only teach the number of hours they have to teach; they go over it every week. Ten hours a week they teach extra classes in sports, philosophy and theatre. That's how they get rid of the children's learning disadvantages. Despite the problems that exist every day, they are committed to achieving a higher goal. These are all people who make positive changes themselves. Let's see where we can learn from them as politics. Mr. Chairman. That's pretty easy to start with. Let us add EUR 5.8 billion to the cabinet budget. This amount is not from the top hat, it is from the European Recovery Fund. There is a total of 750 billion which the European Union wants to ensure that Member States boost the economy. For every country, including the Netherlands, that money is just there. Money we can use to green the economy. That we can invest in research and innovation. Not surprisingly, therefore, that there have already been 26 Member States which have already made plans. Spain invests billions in electric charging stations and in affordable and sustainable rentals. Italy invests billions in high-speed lines. Slovenia puts hundreds of millions into climate adaptation. Only the Netherlands does not yet have any plans on paper, and a majority of the Chamber asked the cabinet to work on this in June. Mr. Chairman. What are we waiting for? It's really time to look further. I realize that I do not have enough time here to make a plea for a government that is giving direction and a policy in which the government itself dares to formulate great goals, like making the Netherlands climate neutral in 2040, and investing in research into artificial intelligence, so that we can have smarter and better care in 30 years' time. But I am not leaving here without saying that it is time for a government that dares to take charge by bringing people together, for a government that guides and then sits down with business, NGOs and citizens. It is time for a government that organises citizens' forums, so that residents and experts can decide together how to meet the challenges. I do not need to dwell on that now, because I will continue to do so throughout the political year. We are talking here about the budget of the cabinet. And we can already do a few things to make living more affordable: we abolish the jubelton, we abolish the landlord's tax, and we're going to bring the liberalisation limit to €1,000. And as far as we're concerned, 833 million goes to overdue maintenance in cybersecurity. Let us also invest more to meet our climate goals, for example by increasing energy networks. Let us stop giving subsidies to the fossil industry, and let us put 3% of GDP into fundamental research. And let's not forget: cancel the loan system, withdraw the basic scholarship and cancel the tuition fee. We've talked about that before. Look at countries like Denmark and Sweden. As far as we're concerned, we can't start soon enough. Mr. Chairman. It is time to answer the question: what is the state of the Netherlands? And the answer is clear: it can and should be much better. Not because things are bad, but because there is enormous potential and creative energy in society. The Dutch are now demanding this from politics. They expect politics to return to the great challenges and to show courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u322	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u323	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Members of the Cabinet. It is sometimes said about JA21: why always focus on migration and asylum? Why would you do that? To quote Herman Finkers: a boy like that doesn't need that, does he? I'd like to tell you something about myself. When I met Pim Fortuyn in the spring of 2002, it was six months after 9/11, the day the world lost its innocence. We were in a cold and warm war with radical Islam. Fortuyn was their only hope for many Dutch people for years. He pointed out, served by his many publications and books, the dangers of Islam, the risks of new flows of migrants to the Netherlands and a very poor integration. Now we're standing here, on the Monkey Rock. It's now 20 years after 9/11 and about 20 years after Pim Fortuyn's murder. And what have we gotten out of here? The world is drifting. The European external borders are as leaky as a basket. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers come to Europe every week, many of them to the Netherlands. Our asylum policy is bankrupt. The COA is bursting out of its joints. Minister Ollongren says "the bucket is overflowing," but she is the one who left the crane open. In the last two weeks 2,500 asylum seekers entered the Netherlands. That is as much as in Denmark in a whole year. We have three times more inhabitants than Denmark, but our influx is 25 times higher. Mr. Chairman. We give an open ticket to possibly thousands of Afghan asylum seekers and municipalities cannot accommodate the almost 30,000 status holders of already. Dr. Jan van de Beek calculated that the arrival of such a number of 2,500 asylum seekers would ultimately cost the society 1.4 billion euros. That is the complete annual budget of the municipality of Utrecht in two weeks time. If we do not slow down the influx, we are even at the level, at least on course, to approach the record of nearly 60,000 asylum seekers from the year 2015. Kantar's research showed us that two thirds of the Dutch want to limit immigration, two thirds. 91% of Dutch people do not see room for further population growth and almost 60% want asylum seekers to be accommodated in the region there and want a quota on asylum seekers. That is, for you in the room here, the Netherlands on average. That's not a particular group. That is the whole of the Netherlands, right through all the grassroots, through yours and my supporters and also through native and ethnic minorities. Research shows that non-Western immigrants are also largely in favour of immigration restrictions. In short, standing for a strict and just asylum policy is not xenophobic. That doesn't mean you hate a tan. It stands for our carefully built welfare state and realizes that our absorption capacity is finite. So let us do what the electorate wants us to do, and that is: create strict asylum laws that prevent lucky seekers, make shelter temporary and regulate good reception in the regions there. That's humane, but it's strict. I was in Copenhagen with colleague Eppink this summer. What happened there? We visited Denmark, where we studied the migration dossier on various facets, and what is most striking in Denmark is that the whole migration dossier is completely depoliticized. From left to right, people notice: this is strict, but it is just. No demonstrations, no refugee work Denmark coming to parliament with banners. No, they were even part of the system. They participated, for example, in the expulsion of people who are not allowed to stay in Denmark. They literally said to us: you better be there than you stand to demonstrate against it and have no influence. Anyway, in the Netherlands, instead of working to get our hands together, we are mainly concerned about The Hague's intrigues. We rule each other out, there's a settlement of accounts and listers mock each other. In short, the new governance style. I think there is a lot wrong with our way of working: ministers who insult MPs, ministers who remain unconstitutionalally MPs, lobbying former ministers, etc. We note our daily surprise and sometimes bewilderment in a document "Haagse mores" that we want to publish at some point. You know our JA21 mission. These are the holy three: migration, Europe and commitment to a healthy environment for taxpayers. So that is not achieving green targets for an unmeasurable little effect at astronomical cost, while China undos it in one day. The Netherlands will become a large wind turbine park and support for this will play no role in practice. Why are we putting complete primeval forests in the oven to achieve green targets on paper by 2030, while we are dawdling with nuclear energy? Four new nuclear power plants can meet half our electricity needs. What are we waiting for? JA21 is coming up with a proposal this year to make nuclear energy an important part of our energy supply. Mr. Chairman. The king said it: The Netherlands has an incredible potential. I think that many of the problems in the Netherlands are caused by the fact that we no longer dare to be ourselves. Our liberated spirit has been put to sleep by a government that takes us from the cradle to the grave and is burdening us far too heavily. Calculations show that purchasing power will remain on average zero: the energy bill will rise, fuel prices will rise, the messages will become more expensive, the care premium will rise again, and then I am not even talking about the municipal charges that are likely to increase significantly again. In short, can the Minister of Finance still be with us tomorrow to explain to us how he thinks we can all stay at zero? The collective burden burden is at the highest point in years: 39.1%. The problem is that the Dutchman still has to pay too much of the messages to the State thanks to the VAT increase of Rutte III, but also after your death due to the inheritance tax and savings and investments in box 3, in which you still pay tax on fictitious returns despite all promises. JA21 wants a drastic revision and simplification of the tax system, with an increase in purchasing power due to lower charges rather than endless pumping around of surcharges. A system in which work pays due to a higher tax-free rate of income tax and in which welfare benefits can never be more attractive than working for an income. But who is the most vulnerable, fighting and breathtaking target group right now? Ruud Lubbers said it 40 years ago: those are the entrepreneurs. Those are the entrepreneurs, not only because of corona, but also the huge burdens and the rules. Last year, the cost of the regulatory burden to SMEs increased to 20 billion a year! What is the plan of action for the minister of EZ? May I ask the Prime Minister to come back to that tomorrow? Mr. Chairman. There is so much more that JA21 is concerned about: that soon no one can leave the house before his 35th, in the total stalled housing file, perhaps the biggest challenge for the coming years, the shortage of care, both in terms of staff, salaries and ic-beds, the punishment of possession, diversity subsidies in culture and the suffocating wok-culture, strikingly portrayed this morning by Mr Wilders. We are buried in political correctness, also by our own Minister Van Engelshoven, and feelings of guilt. Everything must be purified. We're all fluid and have to go to the bathroom gender-neutral. Mr. Chairman. We went left into the ditch and we have to turn right out again. It's possible. Together with Annabel Nanninga I founded JA21 Yes indeed! The right-wing, reasonable voter, who has been displaced since 2002 and has been put out of play. They can vote for other parties, but they are then excluded by the VVD and the CDA, and so they go over left again. I think we've been able to see another nice tasting there today. JA21 wants to participate, preferably now, but perhaps in the next election. If it has to wait, we'll wait. Pim Fortuyn said it in The Hague on May 5, 2002 I was there, one day before the murder. He said in his speech, the last one he held, more than a week before the elections: "What is it going to be: the change or will it be the rest of the cemetery?" That's what he literally said. For him it became the cemetery, but for the Netherlands there is still hope. And now I'm going to the Millions Note. I have a few comments to make. I've been able to address some of them in the interruptions. We have a double feeling about the Millions note. We have seen that EUR 7 billion is going to the climate. That certainly doesn't seem like a missionary story. But on migration we see a very strong missionary status again. You're not gonna do anything about that. So you're mostly, it seems, missionary where it suits you. The extra 400 million for tackling undermining crime can appeal to us. Every penny of that is good. It just seems, unfortunately, Mr Heerma spoke true words about it a drop on the glowing record when you realize that last summer, for almost 600 million euros of cocaine was intercepted in the port of Rotterdam in one week. That's unprecedented. Police unions are disappointed for a reason. President Struijs even spoke of making cuts. The extra money doesn't go to extra cops, so he complained. The reduction of costs, which does not reduce purchasing power below the zero line, is highlighted prominently, but the climate is 30 times higher than the reduction of costs! The balance is lost. By way of illustration, only the plastic tax imposed on us by Brussels is almost as high as all the above mentioned relief. Of course, the euro transfer train is also moving towards southern Europe. The counter is now at 43 billion. Mr President, finally, defence. Defense's gonna get off the hook, too. Instead of working towards a 2% NATO standard, that seems very logical to us for a country like the Netherlands, we see expenditure falling as a percentage of GDP. So it goes from 1.49% this year to 1.38% in 2024, while the average expenditure of the European NATO counterparts is rising sharply, to 1.85%. That's not possible. The summer debacle in Afghanistan, I think, has shown how much defense is undressed. I do not think it is right that we in the Netherlands should let the allies take the chestnuts out of the fire on this point. Mr President, thank you very much. So far in this first term. See you tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u324	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. You're not staying anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u325	I'm staying! I will certainly remain, only for Mr Van der Staaij, who is going to throw something at me. I will stay, of course, but we would like to see the answers in return tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u326	All right. Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u327	Madam President. It seems like a familiar image that you hold General Political Reviews the day after Princess Day, but it is actually very unusual. It is also very unusual to hold general political reflections with a missionary cabinet. Mr Jetten and others have already pointed this out. Normally, we wait for the government statement. Then, a few months after the election, you're not going to hold any more General Political Reviews, with a missionary cabinet. So it's unusual. As a result, it is also a bit uncomfortable, because you cannot really discuss the policy for the coming years with the cabinet. At the same time, however, it is inevitable, because, as has already been said, this budget is more than'suitable to the shop'. Moreover, this declaration of government is not yet really coming, as far as we have been informed. In this respect, therefore, this is also an appeal to all the main players: do not delay, but take constructive steps with speed. Mr. Chairman. It is not difficult in this difficult political situation to talk to other parties about what went wrong, but it is not very helpful. That is why we prefer to take an inspiring story as a starting point for these General Reviews. That story could be called World Heritage, because all over the world people have been drinking this story for centuries. I actually think that almost everyone, from any party, knows that story. This is about David and Goliath: how a little shepherd boy defeats the strong giant with a pebble stone, and thereby frees Israel from the terror of the Philistines. What makes this history so appealing is that everyone thought that David didn't stand a chance. For a reason, no one dared stand up to that intimidating and heavily armed Goliath. When I was just rereading the Bible story for the lovers: it was found in 1 Samuel 17... I noticed how much attention was paid to Goliath's equipment: an impressive armor, a huge spear and a giant sword. No, than David: he was dressed in simple shepherd's clothes, and only had a shepherd's staff and a simple pendulum with some pebbles to keep a wandering sheep on the right path. But against everyone's expectations, David still wins. The great Goliath fell to the ground by a well- aimed stone from the garland of little David. The Philistines flee, and Israel can breathe relieved again. A nice sketch of Rembrandt of this story can now be found through my social media, as an illustration of this story. Madam President. This history continues to encourage people who dare to take on supremely powerful giants. That could be other people, but also a powerful multinational or a government agency that is not responding. It can also be your own worries or fears that squeeze your throat. But this history shows: the Goliaths of today can still be defeated. That is the encouragement for the exploited prostitute from Ukraine. That is the support for Christians in North Korea. That is the hope for a abused child in Rotterdam. Goliath doesn't have the last word. This also inspires to protect what is defenseless: unborn life or vulnerable life in old age. We need to protect that, not write it off or give it up. What impressed me is that sometimes with stories you remember from your childhood when I first heard that story of David and Goliath as a child, King Saul said to David: Take my armor. But David turned down that offer. He was most indignant of how Goliath defied the God of Israel and had a deep confidence that the same God would help him. As he stood up as a shepherd against the wolves who threatened his defenseless sheep and lambs, he now went into the field against the Philistine who attacked the people of Israel. That care, that protection, David drew when he later became king himself. You can also taste that attitude in the Dutch Declaration of Independence, the Act of Abandonment. Today it was about healthy patriotism and about the historical museum. I'm sure he'll get a place in that too. That Act of Abandonment has also been given a prominent place in our Chamber. Our predecessors, the then members of the States-General of the United Netherlands, proclaimed on July 26, 1581 that a prince as a servant of God is supposed to protect his subjects from all injustice and violence, like a shepherd there comes that image again with heart and soul protects his sheep. Now, centuries later, that is still the task for the government: to protect citizens from the Goliaths of today and not to force those same citizens into harnesses that threaten freedom of movement. Take the safety of the citizens. We have more than full hands in the fight against intimidating organised and violent crime. Conscienceless Goliaths in the drug world are literally about corpses. We've seen that again over the past few years. The battle is getting more brutal. Much has been done and much needs to be done. If I may mention another additional point, I would say: do not forget to invest in district agents. As general practitioners are the gateway to good care, district agents are essential for citizens' sense of security, whether vandalism or the detection of dangerous radicalisation, leading to terrorism. The SGP has been committed for years to re-breathe our outleted armed forces. It is nothing more or less than the defence of our freedom. Compared, for example, with the huge amounts that are now going to the climate, our army is getting nothing but a slap. That is why we are calling for additional investment. Think, for example, of additional means for air transport. Afghanistan has already been mentioned: the Hercules that had to stay on the ground, as an image of overdue maintenance. We call for an end to yojo policy and long-term agreements to strengthen our defence. Worldwide, courage and determination are needed in the fight against the Goliaths of radical Islam. What is the commitment not only to prevent Afghanistan from going to the philistines, but also to ensure that the success of the Taliban also encourages jihadism in other places? Does the harness of all migration agreements offer enough space to prevent anyone who wants to enter the Netherlands through the migration gate with dangerous thought? Mr. Chairman. Some people asked me, "Have you brought some objects this time?" Like I used to make a surprise. When Mr Eerdmans said "there's something about to be thrown," I saw some of them looking worried: does the story of David and Goliath mean that I'm about to swing into the room? That's not what I was gonna do, not put safety in danger here. There's no need to bring anything today, either, because look behind me. Plenty of eggs. Natural material. Panels called earth. The artist assured us, when we first came here to this room, that we can all attach our own meaning to these images; that this fits with this art. I would say that perhaps the rocks that are on the back of the images could inspire us to look, like David, at how we can achieve our goal with smart and proportionate measures. We need to look at customization and make sure we don't lock people in armor. We should not advocate policies that, as it were, cripple people and give them insufficient freedom of movement, but rather give them room. Then I think about the fight against the corona virus. King Saul's OMT may have advised that there was no choice but to armor like David at the time, but David showed that it could be otherwise. Let there be room for an alternative approach, for basic freedoms, and certainly for the unappreciable freedom of conscience. So no straitjacket of vaccination coercion or urge. Last week, as my colleague Mr Stoffer said in the debate, the government took a risky path with that corona pass. Customization, an eye for the human size, is needed in more areas. The childcare allowance affair and the result of the investigation into the implementing agencies show that too many citizens can easily get caught up in government bureaucracy. Here's another world to win. Good proposals have already been made and it is important to implement them. Mr. Chairman. It is good to have an eye and an ear for the specific difficulty that people struggle with, but that does not mean that the most progressive views as a harness should be imposed on everyone. Several speakers have drawn attention to the gender debate today. I agree with that. Of course, people who experience great problems with their gender deserve help and support, but the current discussion really goes on when differences between men and women should no longer be mentioned. We want to stand for the classical Christian view, including in this area. Climate policy can also become an unbearable armor, especially if the objectives are fixed in laws and treaties. There is no doubt that climate policy is needed, but it must remain reasonable and realistic for everyone. For people with a small scholarship, for example, but also for farmers, who take care of our food. I'm getting the impression that they're getting muzzled until they can't move anymore. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The cabinet wants to invest 3 billion more in renewable energy production and 600 million in electric cars. That must be wise. The energy grid must be able to keep up with the sustainability. If things go wrong, we'll all be in the cold and in the dark soon. Therefore invest more in the power grid, is our call, and make sure that an average family can pay for a second-hand electric car. Note, for example, the position of the greenhouse horticulture. Mr. Chairman. Movement space, opportunities for professional choices, we also want to offer to all those who use their energy and gift in education and those who work with heart and soul in care. If more work is done on this, it will bring real progress, including in the search for new teachers and care workers, who are so desperately needed. Mr President, I will conclude. I started David's hero story. I love how he resisted Goliath. Yet it was David himself who observed that it was not his great qualities, but that it was God who helped him and gave him victory. He did not beat himself on the chest, but closed: "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall lack nothing." The shepherd with a small h knew the Shepherd with a large h. He stood up for the honor of God and the welfare of the people. The SGP advocates a ministerable government, who in confidence as a servant of God seeks good for all citizens, with fall and rise, but with perseverance and with the good Shepherd par excellence: Christ, the son of God, who gave his life to poor sheep and who gathered the lambs in his arms and carried them when it was difficult. A cabinet that is so serviceable may rightly be called missionary. We look forward to a cabinet like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u328	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 40 years ago, I lived in Schoonhoven, the Silver City. Some of you will know it. I lived on Old Singel 58. I was about ten years old. It was the first time I had an address at all. Before that, I didn't know exactly where I lived. At least, we didn't have an address. There were nine of us living in a four-room apartment. I shared a room with my brother and my five sisters had a room just like my parents. It was small, damp and very cold. We had two gas heaters. To light those gas heaters, my father had to push two buttons: one for the gas and the other for the ignition. It was sometimes endless, but what a party and what a relief when that stove turned on! Especially in the early eighties, when we still had real winters. The house was visibly too small. My dad thought that was a big problem. He had tried several times to get a better home, which was healthier and slightly warmer. But I couldn't. One day he said to us, the children, and to my mother: shoes on, coat on. We all went in a much too small car and in line with a beautiful Dutch tradition my father had decided to protest. He said we're going to the town hall and we're gonna stay there for as long as we can until there's a solution. And we did. It felt uncomfortable, I'll be honest. I didn't know exactly what we were doing. Eventually, the mayor had decided that we did indeed get a home. It was a lot better in that apartment. It was still tight, but it was better insulated, there were fewer moisture problems and, not insignificantly, central heating. Delicious. By the way, my parents still live there, for almost 40 years now. Mr. Chairman. I learned two things from this event. One. There's housing shortage. Two. Being open and standing up for yourself, that's how it works in our society. Unfortunately. Let me start with that last one. Why do we have to live in a society where being empowered and claiming your right to an honest home, for example, has to be the creed? Why is the government so organized that people who stand up for themselves get something done, but people who can't do it for whatever reason, sometimes have to watch them patiently? Why do we have a government that is opposed to the citizen instead of the citizen? What does it say about our country when we fine vulnerable people when they get a bag of groceries from friends or family? Many of our residents experience daily the consequences of the policies of the last ten years. The neoliberal policy, which is heartless and in which market thinking is central. The Netherlands has become an e.g., with manager Rutte in charge. Efficiency is the magic word. Moral leadership requires much more than keeping balls in the air, benchmarking or a little bila from time to time. You can't solve social problems with even more scaling up. Everyone understands it takes nine months for a pregnant woman to have a child. But I think Rutte sometimes thinks that if you take nine women who are a month pregnant, you also have a child. It doesn't work like that. In this society it is sometimes also about lead times that cannot be shortened. The pace in our society is murderous. Our young people have to go through that educational plant as soon as possible, with €30,000 in debt as a noose around your neck. Our young people are succumbing to this pressure of performance. I see a lot of desperate young people who just can't handle the pace. It was already marked: one in four young adults is gloomy, unhappy and lonely. They've been locked up behind a screen for a year and a half. Over and over again, the promises of the cabinet were not worth much to them. It's no coincidence that under Rutte there's been more than ten years of hunting for innocent civilians. We saw in the documentary Only against the State how the lives of Badriah, Naoual, Nazmiye, Janet and Derya were destroyed. And all the other tens of thousands of civilians. The government took their money. The government stole their stuff. The government took away their human dignity. The worst of all is that they were humiliated in front of their friends, in front of their employer and in front of their employer. They're ashamed of that. Mr. Chairman. This acting cabinet has failed on many fronts. It even stepped down because of the surcharge scandal. Unfamiliar injustice, how come? That's what you get when leadership is nothing more than visionless rustling and regulating. That is what you get when you no longer see through complacency that fellow humanity is a strength and not a weakness. That is what you get when we have a prime minister who behaves like someone who stands up only for his own voters and not for all the citizens of this country. Mr. Chairman. How is this acting cabinet going to deal with the harsh policy that still kills every day? This cabinet resigned nine months ago. When will the parents finally get what they deserve? How much longer is that gonna take? Mr. Chairman. How many blacklists are still circulating within the government? How many civilians are on that? When will they finally get a clear answer as to why they are standing on it? Mr. Chairman. Much investment is being made in access to justice in the coming years. That's nothing more than a repair, because the cabinet has hollowed this out. People here in the Chamber fought hard to prevent that, but it was purely a policy to deprive the most vulnerable of access to that right. Mr. Chairman. When will the government's scrutiny of institutional racism, which I have asked for, finally come? That's being pushed forward every time. Forty years ago, my father and I had to protest for a suitable home. I never thought that would be necessary today. People still live in cold homes. They still get sick with fluid and fungi. The housing market is ruined. A quarter of the people have trouble paying the rent. Those aren't numbers, they're flesh and blood. Two weeks ago, there was a protest, a bit like my father did 40 years ago. To my surprise, the VVD supported that housing protest in Amsterdam. I fell off my chair. Soon Rutte will join us in a demonstration of the parents in the supplement scandal. Soon Wilders will join an anti-racism demonstration. It shouldn't get weirder. It's unfair. The division in society is growing, in many ways. There are too many people in flex jobs who are exploited 12 hours a day seven days a week. We see daily discrimination in the housing market. We still see every day under-advisation of students with a migration background. We still see that your skin color, your origin or your religion determine whether you get a job or an internship. The Netherlands is still in a deep racism and discrimination crisis. What have we done in all these years, Rutte? Not so much. In fact, under his direction, the government has filed a complaint against its own officials. Of what? From professional discrimination. We see how far-right parties here in the Chamber are doing patsy politics. They put off social problems caused by Rutte and his accomplices. They put them in the hands of people who can't help it. I saw the low point in the news this morning: even climate change is caused by refugees and Muslims. That's fake. Those are false contradictions. That's turning people against each other. It's hate-sowing. That is reprehensible and DENK will fight against it every day. Mr. Chairman. What this cabinet is doing in the fight against racism and discrimination is too rigid. I am pleased that Mr Jetten has taken up the gauntlet to see how we can not allocate EUR 2 million but EUR 5 million per year to a national coordinator for combating racism. I am very curious when it will finally come, but also what the task will be. Why is there so little action at all to combat discrimination? We see 92% of the real estate agents are willing to exclude people. When will it become possible to remove them from office? When will there be heavier penalties for discrimination? When will it finally be ensured that discriminatory agents are expelled from the police organisation? So many people. The SCP has investigated this: 3.7 million people affected by discrimination and exclusion. All these social problems aren't gonna solve Rutte. It's done. We're out. It's the man of many lies. The man of the meaningless apology. The man of empty promises about transparency and openness and promises about radical ideas. I haven't heard anything yet, nothing. I am surprised that political parties, on the one hand, are full of criticism of Rutte's failing policies and leadership, but, at the same time, want to do everything possible to get him to power. I said the same thing on 1 April. Mark my words: Rutte is going to put everyone back in front of his neoliberal cart. You know the story of the scorpion and the frog, don't you? Rutte is that scorpion and you're gonna be that frog. He's gonna bite you. Four more years of Rutte is a tragedy for our country. There won't be a new governance culture. There will be no end to institutional racism. There's no vision. There's no breakthrough. We can see it now: the cabinet is falling apart. By now, a whole football team has run away. It's the last of the convulsions. Rutte is in the way of progress. It's time he saw that for himself. That would be liberating, for the Netherlands, for the formation and perhaps for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u330	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u331	Mr. Van der Staaij didn't take anything, so I thought I'd do it. Behind the geraniums. A little lawyer with whipped cream. Billiards. Bingo. A flowery dress. The FAT. Those are just a few concepts that remind me of my grandmother and grandma. Actually, I thought it was pretty old at 55 years. Older than we are at that age right now. I also remember at that age they discussed with each other what retirement home they wanted to go to in our city. That was nice and there was also care in the neighborhood. How different it is now, two generations later. Unlike my grandmother, I work outside, I'm busy, I have a lot of trouble to keep my social life going, I drive a motorcycle with my son and I don't have to think about sitting behind those geraniums in ten years' time. The generation between me and my grandparents is also extremely vital and active, like my mother of 77. The same applies to the vast majority of our elderly. They're our volunteers, our carers. Many older people, like my 77-year-old mother for example, still work paid, coach young people, look after and do all kinds of volunteer work at associations, libraries and nursing homes. And I can go on like this for a while. We're all getting older, and that's good. We'll stay healthy for longer. This offers our society extremely many opportunities. Ageing is not a disaster or a threat. But fair is fair: it presents political and societal challenges. Big challenges. I am a positive and optimistic person and I do not like to raise problems without wanting to think about solutions. I don't like pointing my finger at others either, because the best drivers are always on shore. I'm not into probleming things either. So let us look together at a number of opportunities and challenges posed by ageing populations. There are major challenges in the labour market. In some sectors, the deficit is really serious. Far too early employers find job seekers too old. With the prejudice that older jobseekers are less productive, more often ill and less flexible, employers prefer to hire young people. There is also too little investment in lifelong learning, which means that people in heavy jobs are still more likely to lose their jobs. I would like to say to employers in the Netherlands: you are not old at 50 or 60 years. Then you have a lot of knowledge, life experience and work experience. That's of great value in the workplace. Young people can learn from older people and give them rest in the workplace, because there is no longer any need to pursue a career. Diversity in the workplace is very important for productivity. Joint commitment on the workplace of young and old is gold. But age discrimination is very persistent. This is losing a lot of labour potential: a large group of older people who we have to keep in the labour market and who partly want to, but cannot. The cabinet allocates money to help young people to work. That's nice, and rightly so. But older people must also be helped back to work. We need to focus on combating labour discrimination in the labour market. Is the Cabinet prepared to look at an action plan for older people in sectors where there is tightness to keep them working longer? For example, many employees are over 50 years of age in the care of the elderly. The hard work isn't always good for them to keep up. The age group between 30 and 45 is much less represented in this sector. They work either part-time or they prefer to stay at home for the children, because child care is too expensive in relation to the salary they earn. There are opportunities for employers in the care sector. Think out of the box! Go retrain the older workers into child care workers. Realise childcare in the nursing homes so that the younger target group can bring the children there. Take care of activities between children and the elderly from the nursing home. That also brings new dynamics. Younger care workers can get back to work, older care workers can work longer and there is a nice interaction between children and nursing home residents: three birds at one stroke. It would be nice if the cabinet could also provide financial support for these fine initiatives. Mr. Chairman. Another challenge that was already mentioned in the Millions Note is that this is mainly due to an ageing population: the increase in healthcare costs. With longer life, it makes sense that care costs increase. But our concern is about many disks, has perverse incentives in funding and there is not enough investment in prevention and lifestyle. For years there has been a call from interest groups to invest at the front. So let us shape and implement this. Let's take another look at the Prevention Agreement. That can and should be much more ambitious. There are opportunities. Let us also stop saying that care costs are increasing by older people. I would like to see what all volunteers and carers, who often belong to the older target group, are saving us from regular care. Let us therefore better support them, for example by focusing on structural accommodation care. In this way, we prevent failure and an even more increase in the cost of care. After all, the pilot on structural accommodation was a great success. One of the most important challenges at the moment in the context of demographics is that we have talked a great deal about it today: the housing market, which is completely locked up and for which the cabinet is happy to make money available. It has been an issue that I am very close to my heart for 16 years, but which has only been addressed in the last year. There are so many opportunities there. Today we also saw the messages of Aedes and ActiZ and Professor Peter Boelhouwer: municipalities and housing corporations need to build much more for seniors, because if they can move to a suitable home, the flow of the housing market will start. When older people move, their homes are released for starters and young families. Thus building for old is part of the solution for young. The corporations would have been greatly helped by a further reduction or even abolition of the landlord's tax. That's what we've been talking about today. Is the Prime Minister, like Mrs Hermans, prepared to look at a further reduction or even abolition? And can that money released be earmarked for old people's housing? Because 100 million, of which 20 million for clustered housing, is really much and far too little. Mr. Chairman. I am sure that if I asked everyone here individually, most people felt that it was important to pay attention to good ageing in our beautiful country, to anticipate demographic developments and to pay off the social capital that older people represent. But why is so little attention given to the elderly in our country every year in the cabinet's plans? Why have pensioners been out of the account for some 15 years when it comes to purchasing power? This year, too, pensioners are not making any progress. On balance, with the increase in the cost of groceries, the energy and gas bills and the care premium, a large number are falling again. Older people's policies don't have that much to do with age at all. There is a great diversity in the elderly target group and it is only increasing. We need to talk about generation policy, based on demographic developments for the coming decades. I already mentioned it. In the Millions note, we read that demographic developments are putting enormous pressure on healthcare costs, and that is true. We also read that better housing for some target groups, including older people, needs to be structurally improved, and that is also true. I am therefore always surprised that no consistent vision is being developed on this subject, a vision with demographics as a guiding principle. When it comes to generation policy, 16 years ago, many fine recommendations were made by then Members of Parliament, most of which are still up-to-date. I'll mention a few. I'm sure you'll be shocked if you hear them. Sixteen years ago: put energy into making homes more suitable for all ages, such as new forms for a life-proof home. Sixteen years ago, the cabinet must invest more in prevention. Sixteen years ago: guarantee sufficient availability of nursing homes, develop new and small-scale housing for dementia patients and realize an annual increase of 1,300 nursing homes for dementia patients. Sixteen years ago: make family care more attractive and make sure that heavily burdened carers are relieved. Lifelong learning must be possible for everyone, especially from the age of 40 with tax measures, 16 years ago. It's all still up to date. Mr. Chairman. When you hear this, you wonder what has happened in a lot of policy areas over the past few years. Let us not wait any longer and start really working on generation policy from now on. Moreover, addressing the issues of generation policy in its entirety is often also the key for young people. Young people are also entitled to a good approach so that the bill does not fall on them. Like Mrs Hermans, I would also like to know from the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to take up the following 2005 recommendation: once every four years, draw up an integrated elderly vision with an annual progress report, with demographics as a guide. Finally, Mr President. Older people are of great social value to our society, with or without limitation. They have knowledge, work and life experience, so use it. Our elders are the cement of our society. Be proud of that, because behind the geraniums we don't do anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u332	Thank you! How sweet of you to give me geraniums now. I think I'm gonna sit behind the geraniums, if that's the message. They're very beautiful. Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. They smell good, too. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB. Go ahead, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u333	Some people hate it when you sit your back on them, but I notice that everyone's gone from me. D66 is gone. No, no, no, just the group chairman, sorry. Jesse Klaver from GroenLinks is gone. Mrs Ploumen is gone. I think they're forging a coalition. I've been counting for a while, but I think that's where it's going. But I don't care. I'm having fun with you, too. Chairman and best inhabitants of the Netherlands. Resilience and further building is the theme of the Millions Note. Resilience and no action. This immediately touches on the core of our problems: lack of decisiveness in formation and lack of decisiveness in solving the damage to the victims of government-induced affairs. Tens of thousands of citizens destroyed by the government have not only been waiting for damages for more than ten years, but also for recognition and reparation. It is also known to the cabinet that people have even robbed themselves of their lives in despair and hopelessness. I'm talking about people who can't tell us their story without crying. When will these people finally get what they deserve? According to our outgoing cabinet, the Dutch economy is in good shape: there are more vacancies than job seekers, extremely few bankruptcies and enough cash in cash. That's a sunny picture of our beautiful country. In the foreword of the Millions Note, however, there is no mention of the victims of the surcharge affair, the people in Groningen, or those along the Almelo-De Haandrik canal, with damaged houses. Also nothing about the still unmatched Indian community, or about the peasant families, of whom increasingly feel declared undesirable in the Netherlands. Farmers who, as we heard Mr Jetten say this afternoon, do not have to innovate at all, but simply have to leave. What does Minister Schouten actually think of these words? Do they knock? Is that why innovation after innovation is rejected at the Ministry of LNV? Nor does it mention the spiritual need among the many citizens who are caught up in bureaucracy in, for example, care or youth care. Or about the people who are so poor that they don't even know in the morning if they can even put food on the table in the evening. No recognition for millions of citizens who do not benefit from economic growth at all. No attention to municipalities that are on the brink of the financial abyss due to high costs and a low contribution to this from The Hague. No attention to those who feel excluded from parts of social life because of the covid rules. The cabinet would like to investigate where this unrest and discontent came from. Before any expensive desks are hired again, I have some free tips. Listen carefully to citizens and then what they say. Taking their worries seriously instead of painting them as wappies, antisocial or decadent. Their worries are not called "underbelly feelings" or "birthday talk." Parties that do connect with citizens, do not directly or indirectly call them "populist." Not only in campaign time but always in conversation with citizens, and then not only in an organised setting during a work visit. Mails themselves read and answer, instead of shielding any form of contact by an army of policy officers, press officers and communication teams. Manage your own social media, instead of letting your communications team do it. Sure, you run into a lot of shit, but even more valuable conversations. The above tips can already provide much more mutual understanding and can already remove a lot of unrest and discontent. With this, I have just cut a few million dollars in expensive consultancy firms for the cabinet. Please. Mr. Chairman. According to the state and the state, no one's going backwards. Then why are there so many people dissatisfied? Perhaps because there is hardly a citizen whose salary is linked to the performance of the economy. They're not taking advantage of this. So you're okay? That's just who you ask or who you want to listen to. This is the real world of a large part of our citizens: increasingly expensive energy and petrol. The citizen as a milk cow in ailing municipalities forced to raise ozb or local taxes. Bringing citizens to bear the costs of waste disposal which is becoming much more expensive, even doubling costs for larger households. Tower high prices for an hour parking. More expensive food, where profits do not end up with our farmers but with the supermarkets. High student debts for young people, who do not count at first but now when applying for a mortgage. Very high rents, because citizens are forced to rent privately. Sloped and stripped-out living environments, because more and more municipalities are having to cut back more and more. Poorly maintained bridges and monuments, such as the Long Jaap Lighthouse in Den Helder, a national monument that sits in the hearts of the jutters there, like the Lebuinus Tower in Deventer is my beacon. A lighthouse that now collapses to their fright because of inadequate maintenance by Rijkswaterstaat. Pensioners, often people who have built our cool little country, often see their small pensions rising less than the cost. Too little appreciation for the professionals and the manufacturing industry. A doctor can't operate without the road worker or the ICT worker. We will therefore table a motion for a start on not calling people 'low-educated' or 'high-educated' anymore, but only talking about 'practically trained', 'theoretically trained' or 'university-educated'. Citizens who depend on their savings for their pension. They have to deal with negative interest rates while they still have to pay capital taxes. The reality of The Hague is far from reality. BBB wants more attention to be paid to the following issues in the budget. More attention to public transport from stations to villages and neighbourhoods. A well-achieved countryside. Don't trade green for gray. First, place solar panels on buildings, in verges and on soundwalls instead of in the green outdoor area. And most importantly, make sure our energy grid can handle all this. Don't lock a stream of frantic data centers with green subsidies to the Netherlands. Health care is also about prevention. Give municipalities more money to invest in a good living environment of citizens in city, village, neighborhood and neighborhood. Invest in broadsports and healthy food, pure food without unhealthy additives. Put money into food education including cooking lessons, starting in group 1. Turn the applause for the care workers into good pay and working conditions. Listen to the wishes and ideas of people in practice. Less bureaucracy and more human attention. And more commitment to keeping our small entrepreneurs, the SMEs and family businesses here in the Netherlands. We must respond to climate change, but with common sense. So don't want to halve the livestock obsessively here and then watch every cow we get out of here get three coming back elsewhere in the world. What good is the global climate, I ask once more, but now to the Minister. Invest in limiting the possible consequences of climate change. Invest in innovations in agriculture rather than reducing livestock. Give agriculture that development space. Look at the car industry. The car pile was never cut in half. In fact, it has been multiplied, but many cars have gone cleaner. Why? Because manufacturers were given the opportunity to innovate, to get cleaner. In 40 years, there has been much improvement. Why is livestock farming always staring blindly at this reduction in livestock? Invest also in freshwater supply, water retention in times of abundance, reducing water pollution for citizens and preventing heat stress in cities to name but a few things. We shut down coal power stations and Asia is planning 600 new ones. So we should not be naive and think that we should stop the rise in temperature for a while with our policies. That is why we need to spend most of our money on responding to changing circumstances. And where we invest, we need to do that smartly with low thresholds and low costs. That is why we are putting forward a motion that makes it possible not only for companies, but also for home contractors to claim insulation subsidies. We're yelling for more homes, waiting lists are running all over the country, and young people can't afford a house anymore and live in the hotel mom until after 30. That is not just because of nitrogen; there are several causes. Less building capacity after the previous crisis, fights for space, rising labour and material costs, new demands like natural gas-free, homes used for Airbnb instead of for families, households that are getting smaller, status holders who need homes, all lead to tensions in the housing market. In the meantime, investors leave office and shopping premises vacant. Then there's the landlord's tax. It must not be reduced, it must be abolished. Our tax system is not helping either. The cost-sharing standard makes people less likely to move in together, for example. Give cohabitants financial advantage instead of punishment. We need to build up high, like everywhere in the world where a lot of people live on a small surface. Also look at places like the failed tundra we call Oostvaardersplassen. The land already belongs to the government and there are already a railway line and a highway. Research at least whether at that place, where cattle and horses are now starving every year and 22 rare species of breeding birds have disappeared because there is no food, a new city can be built. It will certainly make for more life there than it is now. The need for housing must therefore be addressed in its entirety. Then our farmers, the creators of our first need for life, food, and the beating heart of our countryside. We lay down a lot of burdens on farmers and gardeners. But when it comes to their survival, we do not go beyond the fact that circular agriculture itself leads to more income. No evidence whatsoever, no certainty whatsoever. What is the Minister going to do about a better income for farmers in the Netherlands? Can the Minister, for example, finally do something about the towering NVWA rates for farmers and the substantial increase in the cost to farmers through all sorts of new super-statutory regulations? There is also little focus on food security. Yes, food security is mentioned in relation to other countries, but food security in the Netherlands is also under increasing pressure, although it is only because an average of 7,000 hectares of agricultural land disappears each year or because there are fewer and fewer plant protection products available, which can lead to more and more diseases and pests in our crops. Look at the terrible consequences of the potato disease Phytophtora, which resulted in three quarters of the harvests of organic farmers in Flevoland failing this summer because they are not allowed to use common means. Is that the future we have ahead of us? I'd like an answer from the Minister. The Minister wants to increase the implementation of the Climate Agreement, as the global warming accelerates. The new insights on methane emissions from cows, which show that the impact of cows is three to four times less than expected, have not yet been incorporated. When can the Court expect a recalculation of this and will all public statements be adjusted now that this understanding has been communicated by the IPCC? Is the Minister aware that new research shows that the agricultural grasslands in the western peat meadows contain more soil than the adjacent natural grasslands? What do these results mean for future policy? Shouldn't that even be re-evaluated? Because why base us on one investigation and not on the other? Mr President, I shall conclude. To restore and manage nature, hundreds of millions go to TBs and NGOs. Farmers now have to work with critical performance indicators, but where are these performance indicators for nature organisations? Of course, it's nice work when you get many millions, but you don't have to get results. The citizens of the Netherlands have a right to have an insight into this. If I want subsidies for, for example, floor insulation, I even have to take pictures during the work as evidence. What evidence does an NGO or a Tbo present to us? Should they not also lose subsidies if they are not delivered? Does the Minister agree and, if so, how will this be designed? Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the words, very important: the government is there for its inhabitants and not the other way around. With every sentence we say, every measure we take and every budget that is drawn up, this should be reflected in the mind of all 225 First and Second Members of Parliament, all thousands of government officials and all rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u334	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A society that works for everyone, a society based on equality, justice and solidarity, based on the awareness that these are not nouns, but verbs, a society in which we live with respect and appreciation for our differences and with focus on what binds us, that is the dream of BET1. That is a dream that seems a long way off at this moment of reality, because today's Netherlands is showing signs of growing inequality and growing gaps, gaps between those who are allowed to participate and those who are pushed aside by our socio-economic system. Who else has a chance of getting a good pension and who doesn't? Who does the colour of your skin or the spelling of your name play a role in finding an internship or a job? Who knows how to knit the energy bill, the risk and the rent around? So much inequality has been created that I dare to speak of an equivalence crisis, one of many. There is no word that we have heard as often as "crisis" in recent years. There is a crisis in the implementation of the Participation Act, which pushes the most in need into poverty. There is a debt crisis, low wages and uncertain contracts and a debt system that pushes students into misery for up to days. There is a climate crisis, which is already hitting those with the lowest incomes and the global south hard, but in which polluters can still count on deals with the government. If our present society were a book, then division and gaps would be the storyline, because the counterpart of a society in crisis is an elite in prosperity. The big shareholders have nothing to complain about, because they became richer and richer during a global pandemic. That's usually with pandemics, by the way. What we're looking at is the result of someone else's dream. The dream Mr Rutte started working on a decade ago. The dream that, however, has turned out to be a nightmare for our country. But if I can believe the Millions note, I'm actually fine. After all, we read in it that "the economy" is doing well. The question remains: who is it going well for? Then who's the economy? Who benefits from this good economy? To whose prosperity do you measure the state of the economy? Mr. Chairman. According to the outgoing cabinet, restraint is the theme this year. I can tell you that I almost fell off my chair when I read that, because from the moment I got into this Chamber, I didn't notice much of that reluctance. I have seen a cabinet that, despite its missionary status, has been anything but reluctant. Because if the Wadden Sea has to be sacrificed for gas extraction, no restraint. If the parents of single children have to be kept out through policy changes at the IND: nothing restraint. If the NCTV has to be defended by Minister Grapperhaus with lies in the Chamber, this outgoing cabinet was standing by. But when it comes to providing solutions to the real crises in this country, often caused by ten years of tough social degradation policies, then one does not give at home. Then being a missionary on the basis of a horrible, inhumane scandal is sufficient reason to raise the shoulders and say: 'Dear Members of Parliament, we do not have a mandate'. So what is the situation with the Netherlands, with our rule of law? Please tell me while I hold some facts against you. I would like to talk about the fact that people's representatives who were allowed to juggle with their parliamentary membership and the incompatible function of the Secretary of State actually got away with it, about government officials who used civil servants to solve private issues, about a outgoing cabinet that refuses, with all the promises about new administrative culture, simply to send Chambers to the Chamber on time or at all. Let us talk today about the persistent shortage of teachers and about under-advisation in education, about Surinamese-Dutch elderly people with a huge AOW hole that needs to be closed, about the lack of structural investment in care and care workers, who have been made by the physical and mental shredder thanks to the late-but-looker-spreading strategy. About Groningers whose homes have been destroyed by government choices and about parents and children, waiting for justice, because their lives have been pulverized by government policies..................................................................................................................................... I would like to talk about the total climate catastrophe that is plotting against our doors, see Limburg, which is the greatest threat to all life on earth. I would like to talk to you about the housing crisis for which we demanded real solutions with 15,000 people barely a week and a half ago. Let us talk here about youth care, where billions of euros have been pumped around uncontrolled, while waiting lists are rising and children are being locked up. Mr. Chairman. The same urgency is also high in trans-care. It's being done very late, but it will happen to you: years on a waiting list to finally become who you already are. The same urgency is high in the Caribbean, which is denied equal treatment by the Netherlands, and where we allow citizens to choke on poverty, and for any citizen who is worried about a police force who cannot and does not want to get rid of racism and excessive violence. Can anyone tell me what's going on with the Netherlands? Because despite the fact that the Millions note speaks of "challenges" I want to name them for what they are: national crises created by years of destructive neoliberal ideals and conscious policy choices. Crises who do not translate into economic loss models, but who cause damage, worry and pain in the lives of Dutch people. That remains, as I read it, unfortunately the theme of this Millions note: more of the same, sticking patches on bone fractures, compromises that are good for optics, but which change structurally little, which do not go to the root, the radix. Because in order to make the Netherlands fairer, more equal, more accessible, fairer, more sustainable and greener, we need to realise that the crises that plague our country are not alone but linked. This is the only way to build a society that works for everyone: by respecting everyone. That dream can become true with radical action. When a year ago millions of people went out on the streets calling for black lives to matter, the question was actually quite simple: respect the Constitution, human rights and black people. The approach to racism, affrophobia, anti-Asian racism, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism is at the heart of a society that can work for everyone. That is why it is time to start restoring colonial suffering and damage, to give everyone who flee a welcome home on Dutch soil, and to banish modern colonialism in the Caribbean Netherlands, imperialism in our international relations and the permanent war policy of the West to the past. Combating institutional racism means continuing to invest in communities that have been systematically excluded and marginalised for decades. This means that we no longer expect gratitude or above average excellence from Dutch people with a migration background to justify their Dutch identity: the same right to succeed means the same right to fail. This means combating discrimination in employment and internship, and discrimination in the housing market and in all its other forms, in policy and practice. It means investing in urban areas without harassing residents by gentrification or racist housing laws. It means that we will not increase the minimum wage to €14 in three years' time, but from 2022 onwards. The fight against institutional racism also means ensuring the security of life for everyone in the Netherlands. Existence security is part of a safe home. A safe home is at the heart of a safe society. And so investing in security of life is linked to reforming our vision of fighting crime and moving towards a form of enforcement that does not focus on repression but on prevention and care. A safe home also means a structural approach to the housing crisis as a priority. Living is simply not a market; it is a right. And if living is a public right, it's a public good that belongs in public hands, so make short cuts with investors, house milkers, vacant positions and grand owners. Start by abolishing not only the landlord's tax but also the cost-sharing standard. Because it's over the madness of punishing people in a government-created housing crisis for forced sharing of a rental house? Stop the sale and demolition of social rent, and lift the crack order. Remember that in the context of Dutch housing policy, the UN is talking about human rights violations. Fighting for our right to live also means fighting for our environment and the world in which we live. As a Chamber, we must declare the climate crisis in a united manner. In fact, BET1 would like a social climate revolution. The polluters must be forced to accept their responsibilities. People can't pay for that, not even with their health. The OV is free. We must make an effort to protect all nature and to criminalise ecocide internationally. Let us follow the lead of indigenous peoples, who have been protecting our world for a long time and all that lives on it. And please let us aim to be climate neutral by 2030. Mr. Chairman. Again, these crises are all inextricably linked, so the solutions must also be inextricably linked. For this we have to take responsibility, the responsibility to ensure a Netherlands that works for everyone, for a society based on equality, justice and solidarity, based on the awareness that these are not nouns but that they exist in context and relationship to each other. They're verbs. We must take responsibility for a society in which we live with respect and appreciation for our differences, and with the focus on what binds us. The moment to take that responsibility is here. The time to take that responsibility is now. In spite of the absurdity that we are debating here today about a budget that has been compiled by a outgoing cabinet, by directors who refuse to come out of a formation bypass, we are given room here as a Chamber to draw a line. We're missionary. We do have a mandate and we have a move to make. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u336	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u337	Mr. Chairman. A free man is a happy man. Free to dispose of time, body and mind. About material and intangible matters. About possession and about relationships; about thoughts and about creativity. Unfortunately, our freedom is under severe attack. Under the guise of corona, climate, migration, inequality of opportunity and power differences, a murky collectivist wind blows through the Netherlands. The old communists have repacked and in a wokie disguise they now continue under anointing names like GroenLinks and Democrats 66. The People's Party for Freedom and Democracy is now shamelessly pleading for a large and strong government and setting the freedom of the collective above the freedom of the individual. The sum above the unit. And that while our beautiful land is built on the individual freedom and not on the benevolent yoke of the state. Our success is built on caring capitalism, in which people have the freedom to pursue their dreams, to be ambitious and to succeed. Of course, individual freedom must be accompanied by responsibility for those who cannot come along. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis created by government measures has been conveniently used to redesign society once again. Students and students were hung up and silenced. Artists and the rest of the cultural sector were stripped of their dignity. Entrepreneurs were financially undressed. The countersound of society is thus silenced. Of course, the administrative responsibility for the policies pursued has disappeared. If you calculate that when you set a lockdown 100,000 years of life are saved, but 620,000 years of life are destroyed because cancer patients and heart patients aren't being treated, then it's criminal if you set a lockdown anyway. If you know that there are too few ic-beds in the Netherlands and you do nothing to increase the number of ic-beds in a year and a half, that is gross negligence. If you systematically influence the statistics and thereby create fear among the population, that is deception and deception. If you introduce a coronapas where infectious vaccinated people simply keep a green check mark, people are discriminated against and excluded, that is medical apartheid and the Constitution is violated. There is currently no majority in favour of a parliamentary inquiry, but I will, like last year, table a motion in second term for a parliamentary inquiry, because there must be a time when these ministers will have to answer for their crimes. I sincerely hope that the judges will not then be gentle. Can our Prime Minister imagine that this cabinet will ever have to justify itself to the courts for the corona policy and that perhaps even a punishment will come out of it? The administrative culture of this cabinet deserves an ear for lying to the House of Representatives. The Court was lied to regarding the bombing of Hawija, the surcharge affair, the abolition of the dividend tax, the Russian gas contracts and the operation of the NCTV. For the sake of the Netherlands, it has been enough: time for a new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the government-created chaos in the housing market. The government has made building new homes virtually impossible by bureaucracy, slowness in obtaining permits, demands on the use of nitrogen and pfas and all kinds of other useless demands. Moreover, demand has exploded as a result of the arrival of 100,000 immigrants a year. After all, they have to live somewhere. EUR 1 billion to reverse the housing deficit is totally inadequate. We need to build up 1 million houses as soon as possible. But the government doesn't build houses and the government doesn't finance construction projects. That's what private parties, corporations and the market do. The government has been dealing with obstruction for the past ten years, and that really needs to change. Land issues, permits and lead times need to be much faster and cheaper. The landlord levy must of course disappear, but I believe that a large majority is now in favour of it. The government is now the biggest enemy of building the Netherlands. It would therefore be good to appoint in the next cabinet a Minister of Housing who will have the task of achieving this. Mr. Chairman. Climate is our new religion, in the absence of real problems. First of all, I would like to talk about the capture and storage of CO, commonly referred to as CCS. CCS costs energy, capture costs energy, compression costs energy and injection costs energy. The infrastructure costs energy and the net result is that the CO emissions are higher than without CCS. CCS is the new biomass plant: very expensive and bad for the environment. Does the Minister of EZK agree with me that we should better ban CCS and put it directly on sustainable technology? The second hoax is naturally nitrogen. A wrong EU qualification of our Natura 2000 sites, combined with a RIVM model referred to by TU Wageningen years ago, now leads thousands of farmers to fear expropriation or withdrawal of their permits. A scandalous infringement of property rights, for which there is no technical justification. If we're not careful, we'll find the last Dutch farmer in the museum. For the sake of the Netherlands, a witch hunt for farmers is completely unacceptable. Does the Minister agree with me that it is time to protect our farmers and thus our food supply and our economy? According to the CBS, the Dutch population grows annually with 82,000 people. This has enormous consequences for livingability, accessibility, education, care, our social housing, our social services and housing stock. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Dutch interest that it is a legitimate question whether the Netherlands can cope with the current population growth, mainly caused by migration? Kantar's research shows that 91% of indigenous people and 77% of Dutch people with a non-Western background find that there is hardly any room for more inhabitants. Can the cabinet tell us what it's gonna do about that? Mr. Chairman. The importance of the Netherlands aims to put the recovery and growth of the economy and the improvement of our entrepreneurial environment at the centre. Entrepreneurs now suffer heavily from jealousy taxes. Working 80 hours a week and then going under Vpb, VAT, ozb, box 3 tax, inheritance tax, gift tax, dga tax, villataks and a hollowed-out succession scheme is frustrating and not in the interests of the Netherlands. In addition, the bureaucracy for SMEs has increased enormously. I've asked before. Is it not possible, for example, to delete some of these pointless rules for companies under 50 fte? If you're a big company, it's easier. Then you've got an HR department. But a lot of small businesses don't have them. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the fact that I, like Mr Omtzigt, have hardly any speaking time from the ladies and gentlemen here, who have arranged all this neatly in some stupid regulation, so that splitters do not have time, nor do I have a budget, by the way, I can only say one sentence for students. The importance of the Netherlands will support the abolition of the loan system. Maybe I'll even file a motion for it. Finally. Society needs air again. We have to breathe again, we have to live again. Let us begin to appreciate courage again over fear, individual courage over collective cowardice, individual freedom over the captivity of the collective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u338	Thank you. In any case, I would like to make one comment. It's our Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's a stupid regulation. It is a regulation that we always adopt by majority with each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u339	Yes, that's a bit the dictatorship of the majority. I accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u340	But it is our Rules of Procedure. Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u341	Which gives Mr Van Haga the opportunity to say a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u342	That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u343	Is it true that Mr Van Haga has announced that he will table a motion of censure against the Minister for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u344	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u345	Now I have not often associated Mr Van Haga with agriculture. With milking, but not from cows, but from something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u346	Oh, that's funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u347	That must be the construction of a lot of care and many problems. But my question is: what is the last time you discussed your concerns about agricultural policy with the Minister in a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u348	I think I'm a 20-year-old entrepreneur now. I am making myself strong for the whole of SMEs I have always done so, and that is what the farmers belong to. Among other things, it is your party and the entire coalition that are now making it difficult for all SMEs. That includes farmers. Nitrogen is bothering farmers but also the builders, so with the milking you mentioned, I also suffer from it. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands is suffering from your party and the coalition you are still part of. So yes, it is very good that the farmers who are now getting all kinds of things to their ears, such as a imminent expropriation or even withdrawal of permits, are protected from parties like yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u349	It's very high for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u350	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u351	I can tell. That culminates in a motion of censure, but I am curious about the path ahead. How often have you discussed your concerns about agricultural policy with the Minister for Agriculture? How many times have you expressed your concerns and tried to change the policy, put forward proposals to improve it? How many times have you done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u352	I don't quite understand what that matters. Something is happening now in many areas with entrepreneurs and with business. I just mentioned a whole zipper of things I've talked about before. I don't think we can fix it if parties like yours go their way. You can repeat the question again. How many times have you been in a committee debate on agriculture? I don't know, maybe never. Maybe a few times. I do not think that is relevant at all, because farmers are just entrepreneurs who can use my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u353	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u354	Finally, Madam President. I can give the answer: it was zero times. You have never sought the debate. You have never put forward a proposal to change the policy. You have never tabled an amendment. You have never asked the Minister questions and you have never entered into the debate with her. It's really weird that you're gonna come up with a motion like that and announce it here, when you're barely putting words to it. I think it's really cheap and very weird. For someone who is homesick about the VVD and who has worked in a large fraction and apparently wants to function again, I find it really below your standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u355	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u356	Perhaps I should correct this morning's remark, which everyone laughed very much about. At that time I was unpleasantly surprised and I wanted to stay with the VVD group, but now I thank God on my bare knees that I was kicked out and that I did not have to be part of this coalition. The VVD produces very nice things by the way. Take the PVV with Geert Wilders and take my party Interest of the Netherlands with myself. The VVD is therefore a fine incubator, but what the VVD has done with this country over the past ten years does not deserve the beauty prize. I just gave a whole anthology of that. We're in a cover, and I tried to report it. It is a change in which we move from the individual's freedom to some sort of collectivism. You're the representative of that, and that's a nasty spirit of time wandering around here. Indeed, that also affects the farmers who are being chased off their land through all that nitrogen nonsense. To the extent of disaster, farmers are being told that the permits may be withdrawn. It is right that I should vote against this motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u357	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I will go to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We live in a transition period. That was the only reference in the throne speech to the bizarre formation. There is a very long transition to hopefully a new cabinet. After the elections, a new cabinet should be appointed. This should provide a budget with new policy choices. This super-demissionary government is presenting a budget with great financial choices. A lot of extra money without policy choices that tackle the real problems. That's not a poor policy, it's the risk of money being thrown away. In an attempt to get support from other parties by giving them a say, we can make a decision about 1 billion. The budget is more than 300 billion. Well, why would we spend another 600 million on electric driving? As a single-man group I have very limited speaking time and also very limited, but great support in the House of Representatives. I get a third of support from other one-man groups. That is why I shall confine myself today to three proposals. One. This cabinet has fallen over the childcare allowance scandal. This was a constitutional and democratic low, but so far no turning point in Dutch political history. Much has been said about a new governance culture and radical plans. Concrete commitments have been made by the government and motions have been adopted by the Chamber, but nothing has really been implemented. That nourishes the distrust in politics and draws the impotence of this Chamber. If we take ourselves as a Chamber seriously and really want a different administrative culture, we must demand firm commitments from the Cabinet on the promises it has made. Moreover, without a better governance culture, we cannot tackle the other crises that have been discussed today. Here's seven of those commitments. If you're in trouble, you need to find them. So after the supplement scandal, the Chamber said in a motion that there should be an independent reporting point for abuses, for youth care and UWV. That independent hotline isn't here yet. Information is not provided, by unwillingness and impotence. The information is a mess and the archives need to be in order. The government promised in January that a government commissioner would be appointed on 1 July. That didn't happen. Worse still, there are still no minutes of subversives. Sorry, decision lists. That's what we saw in Afghanistan. The rule of law has often been violated, with undermining crime and a far too powerful state vis-à-vis its citizens. There would be a state commission on the rule of law. It's not set yet. In May, the Chamber adopted a motion ordering the government to issue a legislative proposal within one year to amend the Constitution so that fundamental rights in the Constitution can be reviewed. Not a single start has been made, as it turned out yesterday. The government is very vulnerable to corruption. We already saw that when Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen was bought away by the gas lobby of Gazprom and Shell. None of GRECO's 16 anti-corruption recommendations have been implemented. To give an idea: even North Macedonia implements these proposals. To solve problems, you have to try to track them down. That hotline is still not here. There would be an independent way of investigating. With the Academy and the Scientific Council for Government Policy, a standard should be drawn up on how to conduct independent research, because the government often investigates itself. There's still no standard. Seven times nothing. Instead of radical ideas, nothing has happened radically. That is unacceptable. I would like to know how the government will implement commitments already made and adopted motions from the Chamber over the next 30 days. Last week, by the way, you saw what happens to directors who refuse to carry out motions. I've worked things out a little bit. I'm hoping to share that. I have no other way to give this background. Mr. Chairman. The second point is that we have just heard that there is no plan in the government for housing, nor indeed in the VVD. And that's in the middle of a huge housing crisis. This is a constitutional task under Article 22 of the Constitution. But, yeah, no one can go to court. You can do that with climate, but you can't live with it. There's gotta be a plan in two weeks. I challenge the government. Are you prepared to come forward with a proposal for the AFB? Let me say that this plan must consist of a concrete goal for the amount of houses we are going to build. That objective must be included in the budget and resources must be found. The government has to be reckonable. Housing corporations need to get air: away with the landlord's tax, in exchange for performance agreements. There must be a maximum housing rating limit........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We don't always have to build inner city. There can also be built externally, even in large locations. Tax incentives for landlords must be abolished and speculation must be taxed. For the short term: remove the incentive to tax households, such as a 21-year-old resident with a welfare mother. The VNG is asking for that, too. We need to get him out of the house. Thirdly, the Constitution also stipulates that the government must ensure the existence of the people. However, with rising energy prices, for example, the purchasing power places are a totally fictional reality. People are going backwards. I tried to explain that to De Balie, and I want to explain that here too if I had the time to do so. Set up a committee to review the social minimum for different types of households. What does a single or a family with one or two parents with or without children need? And what does a working single earner with minimum wage need? If that's an affordable rental, there's got to be one. That is fundamental and urgent. The Nibud is also very clear: with the minimum youth wage, a single 19-year-old cannot live. It goes straight into debt relief. If you live as a single person for a long time in a Wlz institution, you will receive €320 pocket and clothing fees per month. But if you have a lot of costs for your illness, you'll get into debt, too. Not only can a modal single-earner no longer find a rental house and no more buy house, he can't really drive a car anymore. That is why I would like to make the following commitments. Follow the European relative poverty definition. The Netherlands is the only one who does not. Set up a committee that sets the social minimum for different types of household. And calculate that minimum before you start reforming taxes and premiums. Do not calculate it on the basis of current purchasing power cards. Mr. Chairman. I have little speaking time, but the government still has less time to tackle the acute problems of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u359	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u360	I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt for his contribution, including what he has given us on paper, but which he has not been able to say. He was just talking about the purchasing power plates. That's something that binds us both. I have good memories of the moment. It got a little out of hand, I think we were on television together and we both hated what happened on the basis of the CPB models. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt could go into that now. I am very concerned about the purchasing power of citizens in the Netherlands, because once again 200 million are trying to steer on the basis of pictures. What should happen in the eyes of Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u361	We are the only country with an absolute definition of poverty. This means that you define "poor" as 60% of the medial wage. So if the medial wage is €100, you're poor if you have €60. But if that medial wage goes up to €200, in the Netherlands the poverty line remains at €60, while in other countries, including Poland and also in other countries where the Netherlands does not want to compare to €120. Then you can't come if you have less than a third of the average wage. Inflation is not enough to keep up, because inflation rates do not include house prices. The price of a house 20 years ago was on average three to four times a fashionable annual income, but now you need nine times a fashionable annual income, and maybe ten times after the last house prices. It's priceless. Another example is television. A television cost about €1,000 or its equivalent in the 1960s. But according to statisticians, television has become 7% cheaper every year. How do they do that? They take last year's model and see how much it costs now. If you calculate that, you now have €10 left to buy a television. But you can't buy that television for $10. You need to be compensated for the improvements in television. The television is also a lot more fun in 2020 than the device you had in 1960. You might say, "You don't have to buy television." Yeah, but then you don't buy the things that get cheaper in your basket. This applies not only to television, but also to the computer and the mobile. They get a lot better every year, but you're not compensated for that in inflation rates. Also, the rent allowance in the international definition is not included in the figures. It's not part of the income. There's a good reason for this.I won't tire you now, but there's been a lot of savings from 2012 on the rent allowance for people who rent a house of over €445 per month. The idea was here: if you have a low income, you have to search for a rental house under €445 per month. Well, a lot of low-income people would like that. Try Amsterdam, or Enschede, to get a place like this. It's not working. Only inflation leads to great poverty. So poverty rates have fallen below Rutte, from about 11% to about 8% of the population. At the same time, the number of people homeless has doubled and the number of people living off the food bank has risen to 160,000. We were not talking about menstrual poverty ten years ago. And we're about to talk about energy poverty, because we're pushing up prices like this. There is therefore more poverty than the figures show. Let's take a real look instead of using the current purchasing power cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u362	Thank you. Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u363	That is something that has been taken from my heart: we have to look far beyond the purchasing power tags. It requires a much larger procedure, but that's up to a new cabinet. I think we can take one step these days. I have spoken in my contribution about energy prices that are going to rise. If the government does not intervene, there will be a huge problem for many families in the Netherlands. Is Mr Omtzigt prepared to see how we can ensure that we keep that affordable over the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u364	Yes. And I'd like to see if out of that 7 billion for greening there can be some money to the housing corporations for those 80,000 total non-maintenance homes, where people with welfare benefits are sitting with just glass and where the energy bill is high, an account that they can't lower. I would also like to make a suggestion which goes against the budget. In the Green Deal, the ships and cruise ships received an exemption from the energy tax. Cruise passengers pay half less for a kilowatt hour than those on welfare benefits, the student or the ordinary employee of the Netherlands. There's no reason for that. This is further enhanced by subsidies in the tax plan that we have seen. There's not just something about greening. Greening must also be fair. In the past, this was with large subsidies for the Tesla, while those who absolutely needed their third-hand car to come to work had to pay extra taxes. That's not fair. The only honesty is making sure that when you're greening, people with a small scholarship can do it. That is very much needed if you want to maintain any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u365	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u366	Tomorrow we will continue the debate on the General Political Reviews. The Prime Minister then answers the questions on behalf of the Demissionary Cabinet. We'll start at 10:15. I'm closing the meeting. Good night, everyone.
