ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35732, temporary restriction in the open air covid-19. The next item is the continuation of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, who will speak on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, what are we doing today? That's a question that concerns everyone a little bit. But if we look at it in the legislative process, we are doing something today in a court of law. For we are actually delivering today, if we adopt the law, I assume that it will be adopted, the proof that the court needs to maintain the judgment of the court of Appeal which is detrimental to the State. We are working on this evidence in this house at the moment. An alternative law is being discussed and adopted in three days, including advice from the Council of State. That could have happened in January. That is precisely the proof that the court needs to establish that the court of provision was right. Mr. Chairman. Why did the government not submit the present bill on 20 January and instead chose the illegal route which was rightly punished by the welfare court? How was that possible? Was it incompetence or was it unwilling? Whichever one it was, the government and the parties that supported its route are in their shirt. And what to think about a government team that either acted ignorantly, or with collusive ulterior motives, I shall come back to that another route than the prescribed one? Does the electorate want such rulers at the helm? Is our fate with them in good hands, while concerns about the pandemic increase? Mr. Chairman. Our group does not regard covid as "just a flu." There are really big, growing concerns. All kinds of covid mutations are now occurring and there is more. Viroloog Ab Osterhaus warned me this week I saw him on television that another mutation of the British variant has emerged in the Netherlands that will not be properly combated by the vaccines. That's not bad. When jumping from host to host, viruses make small copying errors and so suddenly mutations arise. That, according to Osterhaus, is quite common. That'll wake us up anyway. That means two things. One. Obviously, we are not at all there yet if there are mutations that are not even combated by the vaccines. The second is: what else can we expect? Mr. Chairman. On that point, the Party for Animals wants to put forward the following. The same professor Osterhaus kept seeing busy mutating the avian flu virus ten years ago, which caused a crisis in the Netherlands at that time. A vet had already died because the virus could pass from the bird to man. Fortunately, it was not yet able to jump from man to man. For that, it should undergo another mutation. Together with another professor, Osterhaus went to work to find out if the avian flu virus could be mutated in such a way that infected people could also infect other people. That was easy. They were able to realize the mutation. Fortunately, that mutated virus didn't escape from Osterhaus' laboratory. The deadlyness of the virus was 50%. If it could have gone ahead in the Netherlands, half of the infected people's lives would have been at stake. Mr. Chairman. Professor Osterhaus and his colleague were not allowed to publish their research results from the secret services. If it were to come into the hands of terrorists who could produce the mutation just as easily, that would be a huge threat. But both professors rightly pointed out that in nature it is a matter of time before such mutations develop themselves. I quote them: "Nature is the greatest bioterrorist." Mr. Chairman. We are currently facilitating such bioterrorism, without the public being aware of it. In the Netherlands, which wants to be the biggest butcher in the world, millions of chickens are cooped up and butchers are close together in slaughterhouses. Skipping from host to host, according to Osterhaus this week, eventually causes the mutations in the coronavirus. We just allow the breeding sites for even more horrible viruses. The wait is for the moment when the avian flu virus strikes again and mutates, and that will happen if we do not intervene in time. Mr. Chairman. The government only focuses on the corona epidemic and does not protect the population against virus dike breakthroughs when the other zoonoses come out from the breeding sites in the breeding plants. Has Professor Van Dissel developed models in case mutated avian flu breaks out? The Group of the Party of Animals keeps repeating this warning, especially now that Professor Osterhaus has announced that a new mutation of the British variant has emerged in the Netherlands which is not well controlled by the vaccines. Mr. Chairman. So there is great concern about zoonoses and right now we are struggling with the different mutations of COVID-19. Preventing and combating such a pandemic requires reliable government action that is efficient and effective and that follows the right legal paths. Why is it that we are only today in favour of the assessment of a minimal change in the law, which could have been achieved in a few days in the week that the government chose the curfew and debated it with the House of Representatives? Was the legal ingenuity in the department so small that this road could not have been devised at that time? Are the legal lawyers of the Department of Minister Grapperhaus so incompetent? The latter seems unthinkable to us. Moreover, it was the minister present here who, in his last debate in this Chamber, praised the quality of his officials. As far as we are concerned, there is no doubt that, of course, the legislative lawyers know the legislative route that has now been chosen, but that apparently there were other intentions to follow that other route, which has now been condemned by the court of law. Mr. Chairman. This House represents a critical review of the rule of law of state action and of the legality and enforceability of legislation. In the comments in the media this week it was often said that the Lower House had not been critical enough and that fortunately there is another Upper Chamber which has a special task at that point. We all feel that responsibility here, and we would like to take it. But my group's conviction is that the desire to remain free from that critical judicial review led the government to that illegal route and that the government deliberately sought to create a power that allowed it to go ahead unimpeded by strict rules and parliamentary control of legality. That route thought the government could follow without prior assessment by the Council of State and without formal intervention from the Upper Chamber after political agreement in the Lower Chamber. For let's face it: the curfew has been going on for weeks, and only next Tuesday would this house have been able to take its constitutionally critical look at that arrangement for the first time. That is not a sign of legal hygiene. Mr. Chairman. The government remained a hard learner after the schmuck she obtained from amenities courts. It had to be brought back to order by the Council of State this week. The government's initial proposal was to introduce a separate law instead of the current amendment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. In doing so, the government sought to keep the curfew out of reach of the strict rules contained in Article 58b of the Twm. It provides that powers may only be applied "to the extent necessary in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health." That strict rule was enforced by the Lower House by amendment, because the government had not proposed it. By first proposing a separate law this week, the government tried to avoid the applicability of the requirement of necessity. The Council of State had that in mind and forced the government, although the wording in its opinion of course was not so, to completely change the draft law into the present amendment of the Twm. Mr. Chairman. Our group considers that the manoeuvre of the government in this area has little to do with the state of law which is so important in crisis time. The introduction and possible extension or modification of curfew is one of the most far-reaching measures. The measure infringes freedom of movement and privacy. Such an infringement may be committed only if both Chambers of the States-General agree. By deciding today on the acceptability of Article II of the present law, this House is giving an opinion on the existing arrangements for curfew, and I shall come back to that. But is it also necessary for the First Chamber to approve an extension or to reset the curfew at any time later? Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, the government is most likely to avoid the critical assessment by this house of the covid measures it has taken. In our opinion, that she followed the illegal route used today by the appeal was equally motivated by the desire to avoid scrutiny by the Supreme Court. A possible extension of the curfew or the resetting of the curfew after a curfew-free period will, if we have adopted this law, be based on Article 58j of the Twm. According to Article 58c, second paragraph, Twm, such a decision will only require the consent of the Lower House, but not that of the Upper Chamber. This House must now stand firm and require the Government to arrange as soon as possible for the application of Article 58j (f) to the First Chamber of the same right as that accorded to the Second Chamber of the House of Representatives under Article 58c (2). Is the government prepared to do so? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u4	This subject was discussed yesterday in the House of Representatives. There has even been an explicit request, an amendment, to make that possible. That was rejected by the House of Representatives. How do you see it that the government still obtains a majority on the other side for such a change, and then arrives here? Because that's the order of things. How does Mr Nicolaï see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u5	Actually, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that I am also looking towards the representative of 50PLUS here, who originally intended it as an amendment, but was not voted on as an amendment. Then a bit of a messy motion was made. I'm just gonna say it disrespectfully. In that motion, in general, it is called "in general'! In future, the First Chamber should have the same right of assent over all applications of the Twm. I say: let us begin with the observation that we all share, namely that curfew is one of the most profound instruments used. Let us ask the government to at least give the First Chamber the same right as the Second Chamber on that point. I'll put that question to the government. This differs from the much more general motion that was raised yesterday in the House of Representatives. That's one. Secondly, I would also like to look at Mr Kox's report on the occasion of the adoption of a motion in the House of Representatives and the adoption of a motion in the House of First Instance. We haven't quite figured out how to deal with it yet, but I have every confidence that we will get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u6	I think the subject will come back on Tuesday, so let's not get too far. I just wanted to make it clear that, in the end, whether this motion is messy or correct, a ruling has already been made across the street. But a change to this treatment, the amendment to that law, has not been made. So now we have what we have here. At least that's what I'm gonna find out. The bill lies ahead as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u7	You continue your argument, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u8	I now come to Article II of the bill. Other fellow senators present have already pointed this out. Pursuant to Article II of the bill, the curfew already proclaimed on the entry into force of the draft now before it is based on that law. It is therefore logical that we should check whether the decision to introduce a curfew is in line with the requirements of Article 58b. The Council of State is also based on a thorough review, which said that the entirely inadequate justification which the government had put into the original proposal this week should be much more extensive. I quote the Council of State: 'OMT opinions can, of course, play an important role in this, but, given the other interests at stake, the final consideration cannot be based solely on those opinions'. Mr. Chairman. This brings the Group of the Party of Animals to the following questions to the Minister. The first question: the second paragraph of Article 58b (a) of the Twm states that the introduction of curfew must be "necessary" in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health. Does the Minister agree with us that this wording implies that the government, before setting a curfew, must establish that its introduction will actually have a substantial effect? This is a legal question that we have been discussing before. I put this legal question to the Minister of Justice, who himself had to answer legal questions as a lawyer for years. I expressly ask not for a political response, but for a legally binding answer. Then there is the second question. In the dispute which is taking place this week, it is established that the OMT does not have data relating to the effect of the curfew. Along with the single visit scheme, an estimate of around 10% effect has been made. What is due to the curfew is not to be reported. Does the Minister agree that, if the objective data are not available, the effect of curfew should not be expressed as a percentage? I'd like a response. The third question is whether the government agrees with us that the quoted passage of the opinion of the Council of State states that, if there is no evidence that the curfew is making a substantial contribution to the assessment, it is only a weight of an opportunity, then the possible demonstrable collateral damage, for which there are actual research data, such as isolation, depressive complaints and so on, should be given a heavier weight by its nature. That's a complicated question. I think Mr Recourt listened with interest to that. The essence is: if you really can't prove it, if you can't actually determine that substantial contribution, then you're working with an opportunity. Should the collateral damage that you want to avoid and which is not an opportunity, but is actually established, be given a heavier weight when considering it? I would also like to look at Mrs Den Boer. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at this, because I think that will give us all a little more clarity in relation to the question of proportionality. The fourth question is whether the government has assessed the expected contribution to be made to the closure of air traffic for non-necessary flights and to the better enforcement of quarantine of infected persons. Does the Government consider it possible that the estimated contribution of such measures will be comparable or greater than the contribution of curfew it has assumed? Does the government agree that such measures should be eligible rather than setting up and maintaining curfew? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm approaching the lock. I refuse to believe that the Lawyers of the Department would be incompetent, but the wording of Article 58j (f) is not in line with the aim and purpose of the current legislative amendment. According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft is intended to provide "a legal basis for setting the curfew." The government's intention with the bill is not to make it possible to ban outdoor stays in hours other than evening hours. The explanatory memorandum does not provide any factual basis for this either. The wording and scope of Article 58j (f) do not correspond to this point, which is not consistent with the principle of legal certainty. In view of this, is the Government prepared to recognise that the powers conferred in Article 58j (f) may only be used to limit outdoor stays "in the evening hours"? That is my question to the Minister. I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After four beautiful skating days, the metaphor of a minister who skates in a skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating skating While there were warnings for thin ice, this minister turned on and drove in. Today, we must pull him out with all our strength. Mr. Chairman. Four days of ice fun were good for the mood of the Netherlands. I speak for myself, too. But that woke up was very bad for the mood of the Netherlands, for the citizen, who expects from the Minister of Justice and Security thoughtfulness and not recklessness. I am not a social psychologist, but I do feel that this has caused widespread discomfort in society, at a time when trust in governance is so necessary. The State was ordered by the court for interim relief on Tuesday to terminate the procedure and now comes with a replacement for it. That replacement uses the beautiful words "in the open air." The writer Nelleke Noordervliet, who fights for the preservation of forgotten words, has welcomed that verb. This should be regulated and included in the Official Journal. The arrangement is known as the curfew. At the heart of the proceedings before the President of the Hague was the activation of Article 8 (1) and (3) of the Special Powers Act, Wbbbg. On this basis, my colleague Groothuizen in the Lower House had already expressed some doubts in the debate, which took place with the Lower House. But the minister had a determined look, which is his own, and he continued. The execution of the ruling of the President of the Supreme Court has now been suspended by a higher court. Until it is decided on appeal possible to do so today, Monday, Tuesday, the current regime applies. But how could the minister have allowed him to scribble out of that wak? He is dependent, if he had not filed this, on a judge, whether or not to permanently terminate it. I would like to ask the question, which was also raised by Mr Janssen and Mr Nicolaï: is there no one in the department who has said 'ho ho ho ho, excellency, that is perhaps the short blow, but is it perhaps a power that is not intended for'? In administrative law it is called détournement de pouvoir. And then I wonder if at times like this, the V in the department of the J gets in the way too much. And what do we learn from this for legislative work? Mr Nicolaï also raised this question. The further opinion of the Council of State states that it recommends the Twm, but that this was not the department's initial preference. Didn't they learn something? I do not go as far as Mr Nicolaï, to think that this is an ingenious thought, it is much worse, I think: it has not been properly thought out. I would like to hear from the Minister how that decision-making process took place. Fortunately, this time he has taken the advice of the Council of State. The situation in the House of Representatives yesterday, I have followed that debate, and I think my group feels that it has caused a great deal of confusion and that it is unnecessary. If in that debate the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister were committed not to weaken the position in the appeal, would that be very transparent? Besides, I don't think it works that way in the trias either. I have a strong feeling that neither the Prime Minister nor this Minister wanted to admit that there was too thin ice skating. Even if the judge's ruling in interim proceedings is overturned by the court, the uncertainty of the measure is not a matter of course, because anyone can start a ground procedure tomorrow. The gentlemen who have started the interim proceedings have already completed ten procedures. Of course, a soil procedure takes a long time, but still the measure has become a matter of urgency. This is not good for the administration, it is not good for the Minister of Justice and Security. I totally missed that element in the debate yesterday. A judgment in interim proceedings is a provisional measure and will then have to be decided by the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr Backer mentioned that it was a provisional measure. That's right. A soil procedure can always be started. But we have the most important ground procedure next Tuesday, because then we will judge exactly the same question as the President of the Court of First Instance ruled on, namely whether we in the First Chamber consider the use of that power to be right. May I hope, then, that D66 will judge with me and my group that that was indeed détournement de pouvoir?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u12	Now Mr Nicolaï is taking two major steps. The question is, of course, whether it is necessary to deal with this bill. That's the first thing. Secondly, yesterday in the House of Representatives, a Groothuizen motion was adopted, in which the government was asked in future to base the measure to extend the curfew after the interim weighing on the legislation before us today. If the Chamber accepts it today, I think that this debate is superfluous, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he is implementing the Great Houses motion. That's what was asked earlier this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u13	I don't want to say disrespectfully again that the motion may have been a little messy. This one wasn't so messy, but it wasn't completely complete. I heard the Minister say, in response to a question from our group, that the law will not work until he puts him in the Official Journal. That's not what this motion is about. That motion is about giving it priority when it works, but as long as the Minister and the Government ensure that he does not enter the Official Journal, we will still have to deal with the other law next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u14	This is how I recognize Mr Nicolaï. He then assumes that the Minister, at a motion passed in the House of Representatives, will delay the regulation which I would call the royal road after it appears that there is sufficient support for it, which, of course, remains to be seen, ingeniously, in order not to get it into the Official Journal. I don't see him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u15	I hope I can see through your glasses with you. I was very surprised that when the Minister was asked whether the new law would apply, the answer was: no, it only applies when it comes to the Official Journal. So there's obviously still room for manoeuvre. That was my last comment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u16	I think that answer is strictly correct. It won't apply until he's in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u17	A very short question, Mr. Chairman. I've heard Mr. Backer use the term "détournement de pouvoir" a few times. If you translate that from French into Dutch, is it true that it is abuse of power?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u18	Yes. Strictly speaking, you speak in administrative law about the use of a power for a power other than what it is for. That sounds a little more friendly, but it's in the same atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u19	I asked because earlier in the debate there was some criticism of the term 'abuse of power'. It sounds better in French.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u20	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u21	So Mr Frentrop and I can still find each other. Mr. Chairman. If the Great Houses motion had not come to our aid, it would have become a very unclear situation. That was also evident from the little debate with Mr Nicolaï. Is there any loss of face in that, I ask the Minister, not just to defend this route yesterday from amending the Public Health Act? It also fits within the framework of that law. That would be awesome to him. The Chamber itself is on the agenda, but I would like to ask again whether the Minister agrees with my group that the support for this bill makes the examination of the legislative proposal 35722 superfluous. Of course, that's more efficient. Mr. Chairman. The details of the interim proceedings have already been discussed. I do recognize a pattern that Mr Janssen has already mentioned, namely that it is the second time that we are standing here on a Friday, after a lost interim hearing, by the Minister of Justice. Of course, these are special times, including the department staff, of the minister working from home. There's a lot of pressure, there's the pandemic. But isn't everyone trying to do their job right? That's what we're trying to do. In order to prevent charm and not come here a third time on a Friday, I would like to know what is not going well and what the Minister is going to do about it. Is there a lack of quality control? Is there a fight between Justice and VWS that the minister thought: you know what, I'll do it myself, then I don't need Hugo de Jonge? Security going for the Justice Department? Anyway, the D66 group has questions here. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying, of course, that such a far-reaching measure must be properly substantiated. The repair we are discussing today does not oblige the Minister to use curfew, but, as one of his colleagues said, instrument is added to the toolbox. In my view, the duration of the amendment on the other side is limited to three weeks for the new regulation. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is correct or not. I believe that Mr Recourt asked for this extension, which I do not think would make sense. Mr. Chairman. There's a weighing moment next week between government and parliament. That's for sure. The desirability of the activation of this power, of the extension, is not here. I would like to point out that Mr De Boer has already said 'judge Chamber' and I think it would ultimately seem that the Great Houses motion has been adopted and must be carried out. I had it right here in my line. In fact, we have already discussed it in the interruption of Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u22	I have two brief questions. The first one. I think I read the amendment just like Mr Backer, namely that only with a new ministerial decision that will apply for three weeks. The question to the government is: do you not really think we should listen to the spirit of the amendment? If it is 2 March and the curfew would go through unexpectedly, will the government resolve it by putting forward a new royal decree so that that amendment actually will work? My first question is: do you agree, do you agree with that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u23	I agree with that, but actually I think... it's gotten a little clearer thanks to the Griffin's note, for which thanks. These measures are all interrelated. I think that according to the Groothuizen motion when it appears in the Official Journal and there is a new basis, this new basis applies when it is extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u24	Let's wait and see the Minister's answer. My second question. You had solid qualifications about the base and the thin ice skating with the base of the Wbbbg. It's still a tongue trip. Suppose the court says this afternoon, no, that Wbbbg was fine. Will you stick to those solid qualifications?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u25	Yes. I keep finding that for all kinds of reasons. I believe that what we think of legislation here is our own assessment. In that sense I am also quite tight in the trias politician. I was going to say something about that. The President has been quoted here a number of times, but frankly, the President's ruling is the reason for this legislation, but we are doing the substantive consideration here. That is why I am not in favour of Mrs Faber's order proposal. I think we are dealing with our own legislation. We don't have to wait for a ruling from the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u26	I largely agree with Mr Backer, but I sometimes find the certainty a little strange. There are also highly-educated lawyers who say that this Wggb base can do well. Luckily, the judge has the last word. At least, in interim proceedings. You can put that into perspective, too. That's what we're assuming right now. But the fact that the government, in terms of the basis, is not the basis I am talking about, but rather the basis, which has been such a great disappointment, is a different matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you. Then Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u28	I am interrupting for a moment because I am now getting a little confused about the validity of the measure, which goes from one legal basis to another. I read it so that there is now a measure that will apply until 2 March. It's moving on to the new legal base. It doesn't change anymore, so it runs until March 2. A new measure may then be introduced on the basis of the new legal basis, if it appears in the Official Journal. I understand you're reading it differently, so perhaps a reflection on my point of view. In any case, let us ask the Minister to clarify this completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u29	I do hope that this will be clarified. I would prefer, also in view of the ruling of the House of Representatives, that this measure should be founded as soon as possible, regardless of the ruling of the Court, on a basis which is stronger in our opinion. What I think is the advantage of this is that we have been able to think about it in this house and talk along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u30	You say that the current measure runs until 2 March. You say, "Let's do that if it can hold up a little bit."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u31	Unless that measure is declared earlier. I leave the answer to the Minister. But so far, he's been very tight on the old arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u32	I hear Mr Backer of D66 saying that he could not be in favour of the order of business proposed earlier by our group, because he did not need the court's ruling to be able to judge the bill here. But the explanatory statement on the order proposal was a very important aspect. Yesterday, during the debate in the Lower House, the Minister stated several times that he could not go into certain points because those were still under the courts. But we have seen that the judge's ruling and references to it in the explanatory statement form part of the parliamentary documents that are before us today and form the basis of this legislative proposal. If we are to have the debate here, we want to be able to have the debate with the Minister on all points, and we want to be able to get a response from the Minister, including those on appeal. That's the point. Does Mr Backer not see that problem with the debate we are having here? We actually have to wait for the judge's ruling, so that at least we have the hands free to do so, and we do not have a minister who says: I cannot say anything about it, because the appeal is still pending.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u33	The order proposal assumed that the minister would remain in the same position as yesterday. My answer to that is: we're going to see that. I would say: let's have the debate, and then we'll see what he's got in there. That's one. Two: I took a look at the debate yesterday, of course. I noticed, and I saw this in the speeches of your group and Mr Frentrop, that this statement is politically consistent with the outcome that you would like to see. Let us call it man and horse: whether it is a favourable or a bad statement, this house is about its own legislation. Of course, judgments of judges matter, but in the end I think it is wrong that we should make our judgement depend on them, and wrongly that we should comment on them and call them judges in an ongoing case. I do not think we should do that, because the roles are too different. We've had that debate before in this house, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u34	When I hear Mr Backer say that we are dealing here with our own legislation, I am fine with that and I fully agree with that. But then we should not be rushed by the cabinet, by the executive, if we want to keep that trias politician apart in a proper way, to adopt this law as a matter of urgency because there will be a judge's ruling. Then we must also fulfil our role of self-employed self-employed, if you are to do so in a concrete and consistent manner. Then why don't you do that? Why don't you just say, at a later stage, we're just gonna look at this law quietly, so we can make all these considerations on our own, and we've properly filled in the trias politicians?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u35	Mr. Van Hattem, of course, makes a very good point, and it's hard for me to deny it. But here, of course, is the political opportunity. I started by saying that social society causes a lot of unrest that a judge intervenes. Long live the rule of law that the judge does it, but given that the government wants something and that the OMT thinks that the curfew has added value, big or not, I find it unfortunate to leave that judgment of the court hanging over the market for a long time. The political opportunity means that we are here today. But the point you're making is, of course, valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u36	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u37	So Mr Backer says that the trias politicians can simply be clouded because of political opportunity. That is what is happening now, because we now have to deal with this law as a matter of urgency. Then we're just gonna step into that trias politician, while you're right to say at other times that we need to take on our legislative role here on our own, on our own. That's not consistent. How can Mr Backer of D66 consistently explain this? I can't make a chocolate out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u38	Finally, Mr. Backer, and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u39	I note that Mr Van Hattem cannot make this a chocolate, but that is okay. I mean, we disagree. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the activation of this curfew and the authority to do so. Moreover, it is not unusual in Europe and in the EU for curfews to be proclaimed. I cannot comment on what basis that happened and how bad it is, but as a figure of course it is not very exceptional. The curfew has only been debated here for a very long time, at least outside this Chamber, and the subject has been given an enormous dimension. Mr. Chairman. For today, the key question is: if there was not sufficient justification for the measure based on the Wbbbg, is it now there for the Twm? That is a different requirement than in the Wbbg. That was quite a mix-up. It was also argued that the Court of First Instance should be given the opportunity to consider the acute need within the Wbbbg, as we broke through dike and so on, and so on. But here we are talking about another requirement of necessity. That necessity requirement must be seen in the key to all measures based on the Wpg. Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed a point about the trias politician; I have that in my text. Then we come to the question of the contribution of science to the question of whether the measure meets the requirement of necessity. Since we are at most laying down a new legal basis under an existing regime and therefore accepting that an existing one is going through, I think that we can only look very marginally at whether that is the issue. I also think this is rather across the street. Of course, the House of Representatives and the Minister have said something about this. But me and the fraction of D66 are increasingly struggling with the fact that the scientific input is so binary economic or medical. I would think that the new phase of the coronapandemic will lead us to broaden the OMT with a socio-economic team that gives other advice on behavioral science, because we are a lot further into the pandemic. How does the Minister feel about that? I would have thought that I could also address the questions to his colleague De Jonge, but perhaps you could also ask him. Mr. Chairman. In the end, the expertise input is important in the political balance, but it is ultimately an independent political decision. This raises the question of proportionality. That was also what Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman said in the debate. I agree with her. I would like a response from the Minister to the suggestion she made about the experts. This is partly relevant for this debate, not fully, but partly, because the requirement of necessity is also relevant here. The answers to the other questions I asked about the departmental justification, the way in which the Minister handled them and the way in which he responded yesterday in the debate and the answers to all the other questions will be taken into account in our final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u41	Mr Backer says in his speech: weigh those other values, not just physical health. That's incredibly beautiful. I very much agree with that. I myself find it very difficult, of course, that is the struggle for the cabinet how to measure those other values. How do you measure an extra year of life for an 80-year-old compared to three months of learning retardation of a teenager? Do you have any ideas? That is what I am asking Mr Backer through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u42	I would not like to contribute to the confusion that we see every night in talk shows of anyone who has a different solution to this problem. We now also see posters and billboards with how things could be better. I do not think it is right for me to go into this in detail. But I do feel that at this stage we need to make a broader assessment. I would not go beyond that, despite your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u43	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mr Van Hattem, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Preliminary draft: The PVV wishes to declare this law controversial. It is not appropriate now for a outgoing cabinet to present such a far-reaching bill that seriously restricts the fundamental rights of our citizens. Therefore, this bill should not have been dealt with today. We should have waited for the judge's ruling on appeal to prevent the Minister from answering any questions. Mr. Chairman. For weeks now our citizens have been illegally locked up in their own homes during curfew, without a proper legal basis, without any justification and without a clear demonstrable effect. The unlawful curfew must therefore be removed from the table immediately. The judge's ruling was as clear as a whistle. Instead of respecting this decision and respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens, this cabinet is pushing through an urgent appeal and, instead of waiting for the ruling on appeal, it comes with an urgent law which we now have to deal with with with steam and boiling water. If only the cabinet were so determined with measures that directly support care. The judge was very clear about proportionality. It is important that the State properly motivates why a particular measure is inevitable. The court is literally questioning the factual justification by the State of the necessity of the curfew measure. Such a position is important both in the application of the Wbbbg, the Extraordinary Powers Act, and in the present legislative proposal. Nor does the appeal in the case affect these important constitutional principles, which are in line with the general principles of good administration, which were rightly referred to just now. In this context, the judge states that it is heavy that the pandemic has been going on for almost a year and that in the event of a previous major pressure on the care, an even greater pressure on the care, the establishment of a curfew was not considered necessary. It should also be made clear that no less far-reaching measures are available anymore and that curfew will have a substantial effect. The judge finds that the OMT has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to the reduction of the virus. This is a measure based on assumptions. Now that this bill is based in principle on the same basis, the justification for the effect of the curfew is also lacking and this measure is clearly disproportionate. In dealing with the emergency law on COVID-19, i.e. the Temporary Law measures covid-19, last October in this Chamber is the PVV motion-Van Hattem c.s. adopted, thanks to the broad support of SGP, FVD, Otten Group, GroenLinks, SP, 50PLUS, PvdA and the Party for Animals. This motion calls on the Cabinet to lay down ex ante testable criteria for any measure under this emergency law so that the parliament can review and monitor the measures. This also applies to this bill, now that it is in line with the Emergency Law on COVID-19. So far, the cabinet has not indicated how it is implementing this motion, despite repeated requests from this Chamber. Such verifiable criteria are lacking in the explanatory memorandum of the present legislative proposal. There is only an analysis of the current situation and a theoretical modeled forecast full of assumptions, but there are no measurable criteria, no testable indicators to assess the outcome and effects of the measure with a predetermined measure. As a result, the cabinet is not accountable and can be paid for setting up and possibly prolonging this curfew measure. Can the cabinet indicate how it has implemented the Van Hattem motion adopted in the curfew measure before us today, which is linked to the emergency law covid-19?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr Van Hattem refers to his own motion. That's what I'd do. Of course, that raises a question. Suppose there are verifiable and checkable targets to be supported if that could be done, could Mr Van Hattem then support that measure in line with his own motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u46	An interesting question from Mr Backer of D66. The point is that this motion focuses on all possible measures, both in the government and in the local authorities, which are taken on the basis of the temporary law covid-19. It therefore applies to the broad package of measures. This does not mean that you are immediately in favour of any measure which contains verifiable criteria. The PVV is very clear about that. We are against the curfew measure. We believe that the curfew measure is too far-reaching and too far-reaching in terms of civil liberties. If such a measure is taken, then, of course, as a representative of the people, you will need tools to be able to control the cabinet. If they say at some point "we want such a measure to continue," you have to know: hey, we can't whistle back to the cabinet or say at some point "there's no reason to do it now." Now we don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u47	I understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u48	I wonder how you can measure something if you've never tried, if you've never done it. You are against curfew because you say that there are no clear results that can prove why curfew is useful. But then you're in a circular reasoning, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u49	No, you can make it quite clear in advance by saying what you want to achieve as a cabinet, to achieve a concrete effect and to record it: if we have achieved this, then that measure is no longer necessary. But now there is no target criterion attached to this measure. So you can always say 'we're going to extend it', because there is another criterion that we're going to apply to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u50	In my view, the cabinet has explicitly indicated the ambition and the objective of the reproduction number. This requires an integrated approach. You can never take one measure alone in this present time, so you always have to deal with the integrality of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u51	But even then, there is no hard criterion in this bill. Although it would depend on different measures, the criterion as such is lacking. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u52	However, I have the impression that there is clearly a target criterion, looking at the roadmap and the clarity, namely that the reproduction number should remain below 1, even at the emergence of the English variant. But we clearly disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u53	Thank you. Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u54	In any case, I have not been able to read it that clearly in the explanatory statement. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday Prime Minister Rutte indicated in the Lower House that the curfew measure is necessary. At the same time, he indicated that "the effectiveness has not been proven beyond doubt." As far as effectiveness is concerned, the Prime Minister does not go beyond the assumption that the curfew will slow down in combination with the one-visitor home advice. But the effect of curfew as an independent measure is untenable. The explanatory statement is based on assumptions and estimates, and states literally: "The forecasts have a high degree of uncertainty." How can the cabinet conclude with such a shaky basis of support that the curfew "is an effective way to keep the number of infections limited"? What is the direct threat based on? What does this say about the substantial effect that the judge imposes as a requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u55	First of all, my group is not jumping at curfew either. Not at all. But it is a search for how we manage this covid crisis in this country. From the PVV I hear a very clear story that is not sufficiently made exactly why the curfew works. I think that is very complicated for all measures. That's what we keep seeing in the bandwidths the OMT gives. Does the PVV want the only measure that really works, namely: everything locked, everyone inside? Is that your solution or is it just waiting to see how it all works out? I'd like to hear that there's some thought involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u56	The Christian Union is now immediately coming up with an exaggeration by saying that the only measure that works is: everything is locked and no one is left out. That's also an assumption, an assumption. This situation has been going on for almost a year now. What we should have done from the start is to get the care in order. It's way too late for that. The ic-capacity should have been increased much earlier, et cetera, et cetera. The base isn't in order. It is the cabinet, of which the Christian Union is an important part, that it has not done any more work. You can now take action when the curfew arrives, but that places a huge burden on our citizens, while completely covering up the failure of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u57	I note, then, that the PVV as a solution suggests further scaling up and scaling up and scaling up health care, while we see in all the graphs that, if we do not take any further measures, that would be impossible and that even PVV immigration would have to sort of allow to get enough hands on the bed. So that does not seem to me to be the solution the PVV wants. I invite you once again to actually come up with suggestions that will help to reduce the number of infections at the moment. Just look at the back of the cow in hindsight, that's no use to us, so think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u58	The Christian Union says: scale up, scale up, scale up care. Indeed, because what the cabinet has done so far, what ten years Rutte has done, is abort, abort, abort the care. Yesterday we heard it in the debate in the House of Representatives: 50% of hospitals will have to close in the coming years. That is what the Rutte cabinet is committed to in its own budget. In any case, we must now ensure that the mess that is now being made by Minister De Jonge is dealt with effectively once. Nothing's in order right now. The vaccination strategy, the voluntary vaccination, is not in order. Planning's not working out. Things are being distributed inconsistently. We're seeing mistakes at the G.D.D. It's a big mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u60	If the cabinet, of which the Christian Union is now a part, has such a big mouth and says that it should all be dealt with better, do not come up with a senseless measure like curfew, but address your own cabinet and make sure that it gets its business in order. Then we absolutely do not need such coercive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u61	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u62	That was a very long answer and yet no answer to my question. I already indicated at the beginning that I'm not jumping at that curfew. Mr. Van Hattem pretends to be jumping. Well, that's disappointing. I also mentioned: think about a measure that works rather than just listing what has gone wrong in your view in this country. I would like to remind you very lightly that the PVV has also tolerated this for a while. I would also point out that there has been a constant increase in the amount of money for care. Yes, we can discuss what could have been better done in the care of emergency capacity, resources. I am all prepared to do that, not by this law, but I am willing to do that. But still the question remains, even if we were to add care to infinity, how we would do it. And two, are those the measures that are now helping the Netherlands and getting out of the crisis? No, it's not. I note that, unfortunately, the PVV has no constructive contribution to make in this respect, but I kept hoping for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u63	Mr President, I am going to try to keep my answer brief...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u64	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u65	... because I don't want to have a whole VWS debate about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u66	No, I suggest we return to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u67	I only note that the PVV Group, especially through Mrs Agema in the House of Representatives, has made thirty proposals in recent years to improve healthcare in the Netherlands. The fact that care is not in order is the basis of many problems, because many measures are now being taken under the guise of ic capacity, shortages in care, too few people, too little capacity, too few beds, etc. The problems in care are cited as motivation for this curfew, while you have to start at the front to deal with them. That is what I charge the cabinet, of which the Christian Union is a member.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u69	The Christian Union says that she too is not jumping for a curfew, but if you agree, you will jump just as hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u70	Mrs Prins, a short question, please, because we really need to get on with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u71	Do I now point out that you say that it is the best solution for you to be better equipped and that all other measures do not need to be implemented? In other words, do you actually say: "Oh, leave this; everyone may get sick, for care is better?" Is that your solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u72	A brief answer, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u73	I don't follow the CDA's reasoning. We say that care in the base should be in order. Then there are no such major problems, then there is no such pressure on the care and then that necessity is much less present. And then you will need certain other measures, such as an efficient strategy for voluntary vaccination, but then you will not need coercive measures such as a curfew, which relates to public order and which locks our citizens in their own homes. Because that measure is ineffective and not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u74	We're going back to the bill. Do you have a question about the bill, Mrs. Prince?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u75	Yes, I do. This is about the bill, because this is about the instrument of curfew and the way in which it is looked at. In that context, I now note that the PVV prefers more people to be sick than we call a curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u76	I would like to respond to that, because I think this is actually a nasty observation. I think this is a nasty accusation. You say we want more people to get sick. Of course, the PVV doesn't want more people to get sick, but with that curfew, with that ridiculous, disproportionate curfew, you don't prevent more people from getting sick. In fact, people can go out at night just to get some fresh air. It's just healthier to be outdoors, outdoors. The point is that we must ensure that care is in order. The cabinet to which the CDA contributes, your own minister De Jonge...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u77	Now you're going to repeat yourself, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u78	...has ensured that care is not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. You're repeating yourself now. Mr. Raven, one quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u80	I understand the PVV is looking for certainties. I understand that you find assumptions difficult and that you want more certainty, but is it not true that we are working with assumptions on all fronts, in all policy areas? The whole budget consists of assumptions. Why there and not here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u81	Mr. Van Hattem, I'd like a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u82	We're dealing with a curfew here. This is a measure which is very deep in the fundamental rights of our citizens. People get locked up in their own homes at night. They can't go out on the street. They'll be fined if they just come out. That is a very serious measure. Such a far-reaching measure is so disproportionate that you should not be able to take it on the basis of assumptions. If you are to take such a measure, you must properly and clearly support it and motivate it. I'm not just saying that; that's what the judge says. The Court of Justice of the European Communities gave a clear ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u83	No, Mr. Raven, I'm not giving you the floor again, sorry. Let me make a point of order: in view of the time, I suggest that Mr Van Hattem finish his story now and then see if there are any more interruptions. Anybody mind? That is not the case. Go ahead, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I need to check where I left off. The cabinet bases itself in the explanatory statement on assumptions and estimates. It is literally stated that the forecasts have a high degree of uncertainty. I just had that question. Furthermore, in the Second Chamber debate, the Prime Minister expected a third wave, now 70% of the infections would consist of what he calls the "English virus." That would be more contagious on the basis of all assumptions, Rutte says. At the same time, yesterday in the Algemeen Dagblad the news appeared that the share of the British variant in the Netherlands is much smaller than previously predicted by RIVM, with a significant difference. In the meantime, the current strict measures are based on these theoretical models on the British variant. According to the AD, the initially alarming predictions now appear to be based on too small samples. That overestimate therefore also applies to the justification of the curfew measure. Can the Cabinet indicate how the supposed necessity of curfew relates to the coverage in the AD? Do more than 17 million Dutch people have to be locked up in their homes every night with state control, with which their freedoms are drastically taken away, on the basis of false assumptions and flawed samples? This illegal violation of fundamental rights, according to the judge, cannot be sustained, can it? Mr. Chairman. The Court of Justice also made it clear that it was first necessary to look at less far-reaching resources. The cabinet assumes that less far-reaching measures will not have the desired effect, but how can this be made hard if the effect of curfew cannot even be proven? Can the Cabinet exhaustively state what less far-reaching measures have been envisaged before reaching the curfew? On the basis of which criteria and indicators have these measures been assessed? What advice have they received on this matter? Can the cabinet provide a clear and verifiable analysis on this matter? Instead, the cabinet states that the alternative to curfew is a measure whereby everyone should stay home all day, even during the day. That's a false and improper argument. If it is to be justified that less radical alternatives should be considered, do not introduce a heavier measure as the only alternative. How can the cabinet justify this misdemeanour, partly in view of the judge's judgment? Mr. Chairman. In its opinion on this bill, the Council of State states that the cabinet should not base its measures solely on the OMT opinion. In the Lower House Rutte indicated that a cross-section test with all planning agencies, among others, as well as consultation with the Cabinet, the Security Council and other administrative partners. A recital is then made. All these bodies are in principle appointed under the responsibility of the public authorities or directly dependent on them. With this it is not an independent review, but a circular reasoning of Rutte with the OMT as the toilet duck of the cabinet. The OMT, in which Van Dissel, and the RIVM lead, has been appointed under the responsibility of the cabinet. Last August, the Volkskrant stated that RIVM and the OMT are too much intertwined with the Ministry and under the influence of political pressure. In all further discussions of the cabinet in this context, as in the unelected Roaring Council, the same OMT advice is taken as a starting point, so that the advice of the same toilet duck is always referred back to. Thus, the importance of the State in maintaining a measure such as curfew is quite easy to fill in. This is all too evident when Van Dissel shows up in court as an expert to defend the interest of the State in curfew. Even the trias politicians are allowed to give way to the state's importance, as stated by Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte. While this case is still under the court's jurisdiction on appeal, the cabinet already uses this emergency law to nullify the judge's ruling and the cabinet ignores with great ease the constitutional objections of the court's provisions. Rutte even stated in the Lower House that he was still convinced of the correct basis of the Wbbbg's commitment, despite the judgment of the judiciary. The legislative power, our Parliament, must then, from Rutte, quickly and in an irresponsible short time, say yes and amen to both its emergency law and the continuation of the unlawful Wbbbg measure. Rutte thus turns the constitutional building of Montesquieu into a squat, by unlawfully capturing all the pillars. How can the Demissionary Cabinet so shamelessly undermine the separation of powers? It is precisely this attitude of the cabinet that raises the question of how far the government wants to go in order to allow citizens to be obeyed massively by disproportionate measures. Is this not opening the door to an easily assumed need for far-reaching measures that seriously restrict public life? And how reliable is that government? When the curfew was introduced, it was stated that it was intended to maintain excesses. In practice, however, there was rigid enforcement from the first minute of curfew. On the A2 near Zaltbommel, 9 p.m. clockwise, a police trap was ready to control all drivers. The coupon book was drawn with haste, as it turns out on a completely illegal basis. These are tickets that must be refunded without delay. More innocent civilians were thus duped by Rutte's overzealous enforcers. Some examples from the media. So someone got a fine for not having a help dog on the leash during the curfew. A hardworking farmer who was working on his own land during the curfew, without forms, was abruptly fined. Citizens were allowed to be happy when the police were coulant and let go of a ticket, such as for a caretaker who had to be picked up by her partner during the curfew because of the smoothness. These good citizens should not be afraid of a fine in any way, especially on an unlawful basis. Can the Cabinet explain how this absurd approach relates to the stated objective of maintaining excesses? Do all these people get their money back right away? Mr. Chairman. The proposal contains a provision allowing mayors to grant exemptions. This provision shall enter into force only after 2 March. Is this an indication that the cabinet is a priori planning to prolong this curfew even longer, without any justification and without any proven effects? Is there going to be an even longer period of sad evenings in which our citizens are locked up in their homes by Rutte and are not allowed to stay in the healthy open air? The title of this law alone: Temporary law limitation reside in the open air. In terms of absurd consolation and gloom, it seems straight from The evenings of Gerard Reve, a book that does not coincide with the same post-war period as the Wbbbg. The young Frits, the main character from The evenings, could at least go out in the evening, unlike our citizens in 2021, whose free outdoor air was unnecessarily taken from them in the evenings. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the PVV will vote against this bill. The freedom of our citizens must be respected and not replaced in order to conceal the continuing failure of the Rutte cabinet. We had already understood that certain groups would like a roll-call vote on this bill. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, this roll-call vote will certainly take place. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. For the Acts and for the people listening in, I would like to say that by means of the 'Brulsberaad' you probably mean the consultation of the Presidents of the security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u86	You did understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u87	Thank you. Then everyone knows that. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bikker, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union. For the record, can I say that tonight's PVV is requesting a roll-call vote on the legislative proposal? That's the case, I see. Thank you. Then we will take action to inform the members. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. These are tough times we're going through as a society. The fight against the coronavirus is demanding a lot, and it also requires much more stamina than we could have imagined last year. It's a hard time, and every time we have to take another step to control the virus, we feel it's getting more intense. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I talked to students, young people who are all in the mood for life: to study, to find their first job. But now they're learning online and they don't have many meetings. It's hard on them. "But," said one of them, "that curfew is a measure that tells us that we really shouldn't visit each other at night. And frankly, it does work. It's really changing my behavior, even though it sucks." The curfew is a violent instrument, which limits fundamental rights to which we all attach great importance. More importantly, it is fundamental rights that all citizens have, with the Constitution and the Treaties also providing protection against unjustified restrictions on these rights by the public authorities. Nevertheless, in the light of the development of this pandemic, curfew may be a necessary instrument. However, this requires a careful procedure and a weighting of the fundamental rights at stake. These are the freedom of movement of citizens, the freedom of privacy and the promotion of public health. Is the containment necessary? Is it proportional? This is a matter for a parliament as soon as possible, and that requires legislation. And that is precisely where my group's inconvenience lies with the bill on Tuesday's agenda. And even greater is the inconvenience because we are already discussing a new bill while at the same time the court is considering the proposal that the First Chamber still had to deal with. Dealing with fundamental rights deserves a better route. The Minister has already reflected on this in the House of Representatives, but I would ask him to expand that reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u89	Mr Recourt? Oh, I thought you were coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u90	I thought it was such a nice route. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u91	That's too bad. But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u92	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get back on track. I would ask the Minister to extend his reflection to include the role of the First Chamber in the review of new proposals on legality, i.e. the weighting of fundamental rights. Having said that, the Christian Union Group believes that the route through the present bill, today's proposal, an adaptation of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, and in this case the Public Health Act, is preferable to the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, which you call so beautiful Wbbbg. Because fundamental rights deserve protection. Yes, they can be limited, provided that the requirements to be met are met, such as a legal basis, justification of the need, proportionality and subsidiarity. With regard to the need, we see how the change in the virus, the rate of infection, the government is taking place for complicated choices. In case of inadequate measures, we see more sick people, with all the consequences for care. And not only for the people who have corona, but also for all the other Dutch people who urgently need care. That is why it is understandable, also in the light of the first and second wave, that the cabinet is actively acting to bring down the R, the letter that holds a figure that gives insight into the rate and extent of the infection. In this light, and given the many OMT opinions in which the curfew is already mentioned as an effective measure, my group can justify that the figures before us are considered to be a curfew as long as the British variant or any other mutation is firmly advancing. And yes, the OMT opinions work with margins of uncertainty, but that is also what I would like to say. At the same time, this means that the justification and clarification of many measures, and certainly of these, must be permanent points of attention. As soon as the Cabinet knows more about the effectiveness of the various measures, it is clear that this should lead to policy adjustment. So far curfew and visitation control are always mixed up in determining the effect. Now that the crisis is taking so long, the cabinet would be wise to continue to weigh up the various fundamental rights measures and to make it clear what effect they have and how this is weighted. Of course, there are margins of uncertainty, but there is always a need for solid support. The curfew will cease after three weeks or must be extended. That is why I ask the Minister how he will report on this very point. How does he weigh the effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u93	I know Mrs Bikker as a crafty lawyer, so I ask her the next question. I hear about margins of uncertainty and, at the same time, about the requirement of necessity. How do you look at what the amenities court pointed out, that if you strictly follow the law, you have to observe that the introduction of curfew should actually have a substantial effect? That must be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u94	That is, of course, a justified consideration. Anyway, I don't have to go into the judge's consideration. But I understand the judge's consideration. At the same time, figures are mentioned in the OMT opinions, with a bandwidth. So it's not exactly that much, but it says: 8% to 13% for the combination of measures. We now know that the R-number, the number about how fast the infections continue, is a very critical number and that sometimes a few percent can give the push so that we get below that 1 and not become more and more people infected. As the cabinet with this data in hand, and with a further justification where possible... I also think that the cabinet is obliged to do so. If it can support more, it has to. If it can better underpin other measures, it should. I get that. I imagine that would allow you to show a substantial effect of curfew. Actually, that's already there, given the 8% to 13%. But please support it as best you can. That was just my appeal to the Minister, in perhaps very neat language.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u95	The Prime Minister mentioned 10%. But in Mrs Bikker's view it could also be 1% for curfew and 9% for the single-person visitation scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u96	The OMT is calling... no, it's not calling. It has been writing for months that curfew can be an instrument with substantial effect. Those people don't just write that down. They're scientists. I stand here as a representative of the people, not to calculate science exactly, but to rely on strong, independent advice. I'm gonna make another call to broaden that. I'll get to that in a minute. The OMT mentions this time and time again. We see in all the countries of Europe that this is being used. There's no pancakes there either. There are also people who think about what's good for the country to keep that R low.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u97	The OMT had just said that there was no substantial evidence. That's one. And two, on the other hand: what does Mrs Bikker think of my approach, of me saying that you actually have something that is uncertain with that curfew, but that you can measure things with regard to other measures and side effects and can have some kind of certainty and that this should play a role in the consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u98	I am not talking about the linguistic debate, from when the OMT says "essential" per se, but they have mentioned the margin from 8% to 13%. For me, this is a reason why I can imagine that the cabinet was looking at this measure, especially when we saw that British variant rise enormously in the graphs. The total number of infections dropped, because that old, well-known corona variant fell, but that British variant continued to increase. Then I understand that the cabinet, also with the first and second wave in mind, is looking at what we can do to get that R back down. But I agree with you. If there are other measures that are less restrictive and give the same effect or at least sufficient effect: of course, with love. For my group, that curfew is certainly not something we want. On the contrary. It's just a search for how we can take care of people in our country. We must have a policy that will keep care alive on the one hand and, on the other hand, prevent as much of the other harmful effects as possible. That is a weight that is heavy and in which I also wish the cabinet a great deal of wisdom, because every time that seems to me to be extremely complicated. I consider the best possible balance that the cabinet makes, but with respect for the OMT that advises and that this has already been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u99	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u100	I actually got a very political argument for my opinion, when I had just asked Mrs Bikker as a lawyer: is it true that if you apply the law you have to look for whether there is any evidence that that curfew will actually have a substantial effect? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u101	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u102	My answer, in my opinion, is that a very sound answer, whether it is legal or not, is that it is 8% to 13%, but that I naturally share Mr Nicolaï's search for how we can get as sharp a picture as possible or how a measure works. Frankly, I have done this just as hard and over and over again when it comes to closing schools and what we can do there and also when it comes to closing shops, because I also speak to the entrepreneurs and they are slowly but surely seeing their life's work pulverized. Those are measures, too, that we are closing them now, which are tough. The cabinet has just as good a responsibility over and over again as to why we are continuing to do so. I think that is an immensely heavy task, but that is the search and consideration we have to make with each other. I shall come back to that in a moment, because I think this is a very important point, at a time when the crisis is taking longer. Maybe a little less legal than you're used to me, but we're sitting here in a room of reflection, so I think we can think wider than just the legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u103	Thank you. Then Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u104	After Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u105	Ah. Go ahead, Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u106	Well, we keep that tension in. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives has done a good job, my group believes, in further underpinning proportionality and also by amending the rule of law in such a way that citizens can still stand in their gardens or on their balconies and by adding the three-weekly term. However, the Van State Council also advised the Cabinet not only to take the OMT opinion as the basis for its consideration. A broader consideration is needed. What role does this play in the follow-up procedure? How does the Cabinet make it easier to understand the Chamber, including this Chamber? Already in April 2020, the Segers motion was unanimously adopted in the Lower House to invest precisely that broad consideration with an IMT, an impact management team. I hear good words from the cabinet on this point over and over again, even Mr Van Hattem repeated them, but I do not have the effect. In the light of the opinion of the Council of State, my group believes that it is necessary for the future to be able to weigh the proportionality of the measures more closely and to weigh them together, so that we can choose which measures should be continued or phased out for good reason. This is also necessary in order to make the balance between subsidiarity sound. Is this the best way? In the light of this subsidiarity, I would ask the Minister to go into the position of the mayor in this legislative proposal. At the moment, the bill allows mayors to make exceptions if the detailed rules allow. But then there is nothing about this in the detailed rules so far. What exactly does the Minister intend to do here? Does he consider it conceivable, for example, that a regional curfew should be introduced on a subsequent journey? Or does he think of other exceptions? Can the Minister clarify this provision, can he explain to what extent this provision is contained in the legislative proposal that we are discussing here? Mr. Chairman. I have already expressed my discomfort about the two legislative proposals that are now being dealt with side by side in this Chamber while there is also a trial going on. My group is asking the Minister to put an end to this situation as soon as possible. I thank the Minister in that light that he has already stated in the Lower House that the route of the bill we are discussing today is now preferable. I understand that the Minister is waiting for the outcome of the appeal procedure, also in the light of enforcement and previous sanctions, but assume that he will then close the Wbbbg route. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. No one is waiting for a curfew, not even this cabinet. Only the serious situation in our country forces us to take measures that sometimes affect freedom of movement and privacy, and sometimes become firm. These measures need to be speedy, but they really do sound like a cliché, but it really is just so.. with the utmost care. Especially now that the crisis is taking longer and the measures in the cabinet's toolbox have long been known, the cabinet can be expected to work carefully and put measures in perspective. Because that is the only way we can keep up, those students I spoke to yesterday and all those people for whom curfew is heavy, or for whom one of the other measures is so compelling. Only in this way, with a clear, careful weighing and with a clear perspective will we promote acceptance. Only in this way will our democratic rule of law continue to be strong in difficult times. I look forward to the Minister's answers and wish the Cabinet and, in particular, the Minister of Justice wisdom in the difficult task he has at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u107	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u108	I wanted to make an order proposal, but I would like to start with a question to Mrs Bikker. It has just been announced that the Court of Justice will decide on the Hague next Friday. Does that change the last piece of your input? Perhaps it is useful that I first hear the answer to that and then make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u109	You may ask for the floor three times in the case of interruption, so of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u110	Then I'm gonna difficulate! No, it is clear what GroenLinks' colleague is asking for. My group thinks this route is the better route, because the other law, the Wbbg, is for emergencies. The cabinet opted for this in the first instance. But this is the route in which we allow the Court of Justice to talk about this very extensively twice and in which fundamental rights weigh up in detail. Otherwise, we will have the debate on Tuesday about an extension of the curfew that the Upper House had still not delivered its opinion on. There's my displeasure, which I just said. So for me, it's still wise that we discuss this law. If there is a majority in favour of this, because it also needs to be supported by its successor, then an adequate legal basis has been laid. That does not alter the fact that it is of course very interesting what the judge is going to say about this, also because we have already had a period of curfew. That is why it is still relevant what the court's ruling will be, whatever happens here in the debate and whether or not it will be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u111	It's a bit of a weird route, but I'll start by asking Mrs Bikker. Because with the announcement by the court that the verdict will be delivered next Friday, the urgent need for an emergency measure today has disappeared. That could lead us to just vote on Tuesday. The question is: is that wisdom in the light of the fact that we still have that other law on the role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u112	That is a question for Mrs Bikker at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u113	Yeah, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u114	I'm just getting more modest about this; let's put it this way. No, look for it all. I think it is important that curfew is maintained at the moment, even for peace in the country, and that we do not get a sort of yo-yo policy but a clear route. With what Mr De Boer says, that will certainly be the case, and I can indeed imagine that we will have a little discussion with each other on what wisdom is in it, especially in the case of a roll-call vote, which has already been announced. But I would also like to hear the Minister about this, because he will have his thoughts in the same way, also in the context of enforcement and the discussions that are currently taking place in the country, because at the same time, of course, we can see that there is a lot of discussion. Then a new situation of clarity can also cause a quiet weekend for many.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u115	Then I would like to make the procedural proposal to decide to vote on this bill not today but next Tuesday. I welcome the fact that, before we vote on it, we are asking the Minister's opinion on this and we are suspending it briefly so that everyone can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u116	Firstly, I note that Mrs Bikker had finished her speech. Is that correct or would you like to continue your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u117	I was almost done. I saw two other dear colleagues who still had questions for me. Then I will never try to make a point, because then my contribution will be over forever, without them having been able to amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u118	Apart from the fact that "loved colleague" seems to me to be a pleonasm...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u119	In your case, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u120	We'll talk about the order proposal later. Mr. Van Hattem, do you still have an interruption on Mrs. Bikker or is this about the order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u121	No, I have another interruption to my good colleague Mrs Bikker, who has always had very sharp and sharp legal arguments. But now, in Mrs Bikker's speech of the Christian Union, I hear some things that I do not know how to reconcile. Mrs Bikker says that, in view of the calm in the country, we must ensure that we do not take steps now to withdraw curfew. At the same time, she rightly notes that there is a great deal of unrest among students, among shopkeepers and, among others, groups affected by these measures. But the justification, the justification, for this serious restriction of fundamental rights is simply not enough. Not only do I say that, but the Court of Justice of the European Communities has also made that clear. How can Mrs Bikker, with her excellent legal knowledge, say that we should do so on the basis of the assumptions that lie behind it, whereas the principle of motivation is so crucial in this type of restriction of fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u122	The PVV pretends to choose between good and evil, but that is not the issue. We're in a serious situation. If we were to lift the curfew and if nothing had happened after the amenities court, it would have had a major impact in the country. I follow the cabinet at the time of the contagion of the British variant. An instrument was diligently sought to reduce its spread. That's one. Two. I would then point out that curfew is not my dream tool either, quite the contrary. I hate it, and I hate it, and I hate it, that we have to restrict people's freedoms, but that has a purpose. We don't do it to tease people; it has a purpose. Thirdly, the honourable Member blames me for a legal inconsistency. No, there isn't. I would like to state very clearly how the Christian Union Group assesses the curfew and how it assesses the two legislative proposals before us. But then you still have to think what is wise in the interests of public order and peace in this country. That is why I was looking for space in my answer to colleague De Boer. On the one hand, I can well imagine that we are holding the vote. On the other hand, I can also imagine that we will consider for a moment what it means when clarity is created. If this Chamber votes for or against the law now before it, then that is also a clear indication. And that could be convenient for Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u123	The point is exactly as follows. Mrs Bikker says I pretend it's a choice between right and wrong. The curfew we see as a measure that does not do well. That's the problem. The curfew is not a substantial contribution to solving the problem of the pandemic. That has not been demonstrated on any clear basis. The judge clearly argued that last Tuesday. It should have been much better substantiated, motivated, by the cabinet. That justification is completely unclear. Then how can the Christian Union say that this is a necessary measure and that this is a measure that really has the aim of tackling the pandemic, which is clear from nowhere, but nowhere? Then it is disproportionate to take such a measure, such a heavy measure, Mrs Bikker herself clearly outlined all the disadvantages and says to impose it on the population himself. Then you just have to be consistent and say: we vote against curfew; we do not impose this on our people and we look at what measures can be taken on a better basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u124	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u125	I had hoped from such a keen lawyer as Mr Van Hattem that he would have taken the judgment of the court a little better. The Court has just said: on the legal basis, I believe that it should be withdrawn and, for the rest, I consider... and then come the considerations that Mr Van Hattem mentions about the measure. That's one. The judge's judgment therefore refers to the legal procedure. The judge did indeed say something about the necessity of this bill and the impact of the measure. On the other hand, 8% to 13% is not 0%. I would have loved it if the PVV had come up with a measure that would have had that effect, because then we would have had another conversation, but I hear the PVV only talk about pumping up the care, which is not possible at all now. We're in the middle of a crisis and you're telling us that we should have built a dike once. We can also see together which buckets we have to carry away the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u126	Thank you. I am going to conclude this now, because you have the same debate, but in a reverse order of position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u127	Yeah, I thought so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u128	We just heard this, too. Mrs. Bikker, were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u129	Yes, actually, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u130	Is that a yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u132	That's a yes. Mr. Otten, would you care to comment on Mrs. Bikker, or would you like to comment on Mrs. De Boer's order proposal? 'Cause then I'd like to ask you to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u133	No, very briefly. My only proposal is to discuss the order proposal after the first deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u134	No, I am not giving you the floor now on the order proposal. First of all, let me give Mrs Bikker the opportunity to finish her speech by walking back to her place. Then I note that an order proposal has been made by Mrs De Boer not to vote tonight, but to vote next Tuesday on the bill that is before us today. Mrs De Boer also asked to hear the Minister's opinion on this. It is, of course, up to the Minister to decide whether he is prepared to do so. We are going to check in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to see if there is sufficient support for the procedural proposal. The first to take the floor is Mr Otten. I would ask the other groups to let us know whether they agree with the order proposal. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u135	Mr. Chairman. Apart from the order proposal, I would like to make the order proposal to wait until the suspension and then discuss it and not until the first deadline. There are two more speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u136	I can see if Mrs De Boer agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u137	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u138	I would first like to look at Mrs De Boer's reaction to Mr Otten's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u139	Perhaps a small comment in addition to Mr Otten's proposal. We normally vote on order proposals immediately, immediately after the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u140	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u141	I'd like to give you that and ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u142	You're right about that, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u143	Mr. Chairman. I do not see much reason in Mr Otten's proposal, because I do not think it makes any difference for the further debate when we vote. I think it would be useful to hear the Minister's appreciation before the Members speak. Otherwise, we're gonna have to do another round after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u144	Of course. That is part of your proposal, and I have just informed the Minister. It is, of course, up to the Minister to decide whether or not he wants to go into that. The order proposal is concrete in order to vote on the bill not tonight, but next Tuesday. I would like to know from the political groups whether or not they agree with that order proposal. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u145	Mr. Chairman. I can say that after hearing the Minister's opinion. After that, I'd like to suspend for a few minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u146	Fine. So, on top of Mrs De Boer's proposal, you propose to hear the Minister first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u148	Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u149	And to suspend briefly after hearing the Minister so that I can have a little discussion with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u150	Of course. Then I'll look at the minister. Minister, are you willing to give your appreciation of this order proposal? That's the case. I'll see if the cathedral can come to the minister. We'll take a minute to do that. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that it is not for the government to give a clear opinion in one direction or the other, but I would like to give two considerations. One consideration is that over the last few days we have established 'together', I mean 'in society', and I do not want to make your Chamber complicit in the fact that people were unclear about the legitimacy of curfew. That's why we have this treatment today. I will certainly come back to that later in an opening with a word of thanks that you have been willing to come back; I am already telling you something. The first point to consider is that it is good, now that we are all together, to continue and vote on it all. The second point is that some of your members have critically reflected on the current basis. That basis is the established royal decree and Article 8 (1) and (3) of the Wbbbg and the subsequent ministerial regulation. I say it very carefully, because I do not mean it wrong, but if you were to extend the vote to Tuesday, you would extend it by a number of not the most ideal legal basis found. Once again, I do not want to take a very urgent advice, but I myself would be tempted to say: let us continue now and also vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u152	Thank you. We are almost done with this debate. I propose that we suspend for a moment after the last speaker has finished. The groups will then be able to reflect and, if the order proposal is still in place, we can vote on it. That is also in line with Mr Otten's proposal. Can the House agree that you will have a moment to reflect on this? Then we'll finish this term first. That's the case. Then it's decided. We will therefore complete this deadline. We're about to continue with Mrs. Pouw-Verweij. At the end of the last speaker, Mr Raven, I will suspend the debate so that you can consider it. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u153	Following on from the Minister, we must not allow ourselves to be fooled from minute to minute about what is happening at court. We'll make our own plan. We're against yo-yo policy, I've heard of everyone. So are we. Then you don't have to build in a new uncertainty again by letting another four days hang over the market what happens with that curfew. So I would like to call on everyone to vote on that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u154	I would remind Members that explanations of vote may be given prior to the vote, not now. We are now engaged in the debate. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u155	I didn't ask the Minister's appreciation for nothing, because I'm a little looking for this myself. I take it from his reply to Mr Oomen-Ruijten, but then I am a little ahead of the debate, which the Minister actually indicates that, if we vote on this bill today and it is adopted, he intends to bring it into force as soon as possible. That could be a consideration in our deliberations. I don't know if he feels able or called to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u156	Thank you. Then Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u157	If an order proposal is made, as I said, we must vote on it as soon as possible. We shouldn't put that out for ourselves. As far as the vote on the law itself is concerned, we have previously called for the judge's ruling to be awaited. Otherwise we'll stay in the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u158	But now you're going to give another explanation of vote as an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u159	No, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u160	I'm not gonna let you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u161	In line with the order proposal, it is consistent to wait until next Friday. Otherwise, we will now have a law on which we cannot have a proper discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u162	Yeah, but that's not what an order proposal was made for. We'll do it in an orderly fashion. There is now an order proposal from Mrs De Boer. This is a procedural proposal to postpone the vote until next Tuesday. The Minister has given an appreciation of that. You will be able to give an explanation of vote on this matter later. And you have just agreed to hold the vote on the order proposal at the end of this period. I would suggest that we finish this deadline and then talk about the order proposal again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u163	Mr President, we simply need to vote on an order proposal immediately. My order proposal at the moment is to vote directly on the proposed order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u164	No, an order proposal will be put to the vote immediately, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. And the Chamber has just decided to vote on the order proposal after this deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u165	Mr President, it makes things complicated, but perhaps for the sake of clarification: I may withdraw my order proposal. That depends on the Minister's answer to the question: if we adopt it today, is he going to hit the KB tonight, at least before Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u166	If the Minister is prepared to reply, I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u167	Yes. Tonight or in the morning. I need to see how fast the moped can get to the State Gazette. The intention is really... I believe that Mr Backer also had that assumption. I said only for technical reasons yesterday that it did not enter into force until it was in the Official Journal. But you heard the cabinet say yesterday... At the Groothuizen motion I indicated that we regard the direction of the House of Representatives with that passed bill as the beacon. I have also given that motion judgment Chamber, so it would not be consistent not tonight or tomorrow morning etc...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u168	Then I withdraw my order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u169	Thank you. Then your order proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u170	Then I'll put in a new order proposal. That is an order proposal similar to Mrs De Boer's order proposal, namely to vote not on this bill tonight, but only on Tuesday at the earliest and, even better, at a later date. However, the proposal is that we will not vote on this legislative proposal today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u171	Can you literally tell me one more time what your order proposal is? Because I actually heard two different things: not today or next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u172	That will indeed be the thrust for now, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u173	So we're gonna vote on Tuesday? That's your order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u174	My order proposal is now not to vote on it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u175	Ah, and you don't want to include in your order proposal when?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u176	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u177	Fine. Then we shall vote on this order proposal. I propose that we suspend the sitting for five minutes and then vote on this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u178	The next item is the vote on the PVV's procedural proposal not to speak today about the vote on 35732, temporary restriction in the open air covid-19, which we are discussing today in this debate. We're gonna sit down and get up. Does one of the Members wish to give an explanation of vote? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u179	I note that the members of the groups of the Nanninga, FVD and PVV have voted in favour of this proposal and the members of the groups of the SGP, the CDA, the VVD, the Otten, GroenLinks Group, the SP, 50PLUS, the PvdA, the OSF, D66, the PvdD and the Christian Union, so that it has been rejected. Then there is the debate on legislative proposal 35732. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A measure designed primarily to have a psychological effect. That's how Jaap van Dissel described the curfew during a briefing to the House of Representatives on 20 January. For weeks the cabinet keeps the people of the Netherlands in the evening to have a psychological effect. It is not the first time that a cabinet has restricted citizens' freedoms on such grounds. Measures that serve only psychological effects are not new in politics. 1973 was the year when the Arab oil states set up an oil boycott against our country. That led to the ordering of the so-called carless Sundays. By order of the government, all cars remained out of service for two months. 30 years later, however, it became known that the practical need for this measure was completely lacking in 1973. The oil depots in the port of Rotterdam were filled more than enough in the months prior to the boycott. The scheme, as was told, was mainly used to make the Dutch live more economical. They served, in short, above all a psychological purpose. Even the curfew serves, 50 years later, mainly for the psychological effect. Mr Van Dissel has also admitted this in equestrian terms. The curfew should encourage people to see the urgency of this virus. If the cabinet is introducing such a heavy measure, then it must be serious. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure it's serious. It is not for nothing that the Law on extraordinary powers of civil authority, the law that has so far been the basis for curfew, has decided on the absolute requirement of an acute emergency. Only in cases such as dike breakthroughs may the government use this scheme to maintain a curfew. However, it is not 1953. That is what the Council of State said before curfew began, which is what the amenities judge stated in court last Tuesday, and I repeat it here today. We've been fighting a virus that affects us in every aspect of our lives for almost a year. I can tell you that an increasing proportion of our population seems to be getting tired of it. It is precisely when this fatigue puts pressure on the support for the measures that it is essential that the authorities expressly justify and explain these measures. The cabinet must be able to demonstrate to the people of the country that there is both an acute need and that the measure is proportionate. In both cases, however, the cabinet has still not succeeded to this day. Not only do I say that, but that is also what the Council of State and the Court of Justice are saying. It's a lesson that this cabinet refuses to learn over and over again. Because on the same day that the court would rule on the legality of the present curfew, we are debating a new emergency proposal concerning that same curfew. Afraid of another defeat in court, the cabinet now wants to create a new legal basis to maintain the curfew. Let me therefore be very clear about one thing: my group supports the cabinet in its desire to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, but not with every means and not at any price, not with this means and certainly not at this price. I have three questions for the Minister. Does the cabinet recognise that, by entering a curfew via the chosen route of the Wbbbg, it has driven a crooked skate, to stay in Mr Backer's skating metaphors for a while? Is the government prepared to acknowledge that the curfew has not been properly introduced and that the Wbbbg cannot constitute a good legal basis for curfew? If, as the Minister claims in his letter without further justification, the cabinet does want to maintain that the original route is in order, why does it not rely on a pleasing judgment of the judge on appeal? Mr. Chairman. My group is against curfew in general and against curfew in particular. That has everything to do with proportionality or, rather, its lack. I will argue this on the basis of two questions. How does the cabinet fund the need for curfew? To what extent can it prove that this curfew is an effective means to control the infections? The need for a curfew distracts the cabinet from the rise of the British variant of the coronavirus in the Netherlands. According to our outgoing Prime Minister, such predictions about the higher level of contagion can lead us to turn to a code black on the ICUs in a few months' time. This picture, if correct, is also of great concern to my group. However, by means of an emergency law, it is absolutely no reason to suspend Parliament in the further decision-making process around the curfew. For projections give us an idea of what might happen in the future, but not a definitive conclusion. "The erratic and but limited predictable course of the development and spread of the coronavirus," to quote the Council of State, leads to rapidly changing circumstances. This means that the question about the possible need for additional measures to prevent the situation in the future is one the answer of which is variable and will therefore have to be reworded over and over again. The balance of interests involved is not only up to the cabinet, but above all it is up to the parliament. "The fact that the course of the crisis and the effectiveness of the measures to be taken by the nature of the case are only partially determined makes it inevitable that the balance of interests to be carried out is surrounded by considerable uncertainties," the Council of State states. And I quote: 'This is without prejudice to the fact that a balance of interests necessary for fundamental rights must be made on the basis of information as up-to-date and complete as possible'. It is precisely this space that the cabinet is taking away from Parliament by means of this new emergency law, whereas at these times, and perhaps correctly, the parliament is also the body that should make this assessment. That may take time, but as we have seen this week, it is possible quite quickly if the cabinet is really in a hurry. The cabinet could also inform Parliament if it spent less time on leaks to the press. Now that I have worked out why my group sees no need for an emergency law, I come to the second question. To what extent can the Cabinet demonstrate that this curfew is an effective means to contain the infections? Here too, the answer is extremely disappointing. Last Monday, in its judgment, the Supreme Court pointed out that some models, especially if they have no unambiguous measurable effect on a curfew, do not provide sufficient basis for such a far-reaching measure. In fact, the effectiveness of the curfew is highly questionable. The average number of visitors received per week ranged from 1.17 to 1.13, a negligible difference. The cabinet states that the curfew leads to 10% fewer infections. The scientific evidence used by the cabinet is based on a study from France. However, this study does not just measure curfew, but the whole package of measures. In conclusion, therefore, we have no scientific evidence showing the effect of curfew as a separate measure. In this way, the cabinet has not so far demonstrated the proportionality of curfew. Although it added a paragraph on fundamental rights to the explanatory memorandum at the request of the Council of State, the Cabinet also confines itself to the assertion that curfew is the least stringent measure. That's a sham balance. It does not prevent the effectiveness of curfew against the violation of fundamental rights, but only against any other measures which are not at all the subject of discussion in this debate and in this legislative amendment. The cabinet is simply unable to justify the curfew without having to compare it with other theoretical options that are not at all in question. Mr. Chairman. It is up to the cabinet to demonstrate to Parliament the proportionality of proposed measures. It can and should not be the intention that we should do this for them here. In short, it shows that the cabinet has really learned nothing from both the earlier opinions and the ruling of the court of appeal. I would also like to ask the Minister about the proportionality of the measures. Does the cabinet see that proportionality is lost? Is the Cabinet prepared to see that the means of curfew, especially once it has been challenged, can be better exchanged for voluntary and demonstrable measures? Does the Cabinet consider that a longer period is needed in a subject that weighs so heavily to expect that this can be carefully considered and thoughtfully advised? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that our group is not impressed by the current legislative proposal, nor by a curfew in general terms. What impresses us, however, is the decisiveness shown by the cabinet to get through this law at all costs. We would have liked to have seen this kind of force before. Where was the strength of action when, at the beginning of last year, the infections started to rise very quickly? Where was that strength when it was time to get the source and contact research in order? Where was this decisiveness in the timely purchase of enough mouth caps and vaccines? It is precisely what my group has missed over and over again in how this cabinet has dealt with the current corona crisis. We lack a central policy direction. We foresee that this will only deteriorate during the busy electoral and formation period. We also note that the OMT opinions are justified purely from a virological point of view. However, corona policy is not a purely virological issue. It also has an ethical and psychological side, not to mention all the non-medical consequences of the policy. In economic terms, too, the virus causes unprecedented suffering in our society, with unprecedented suffering from employers, entrepreneurs, teachers, young people and the elderly. That is why we believe that not only virologists but also psychologists, medical ethicists, other doctors and economists should play a prominent role in advising on how to tackle this pandemic. I would therefore like to hear the answers to the questions put by Mr Backer and Mrs Bikker on this subject. Mr. Chairman. If I take all this into account, disappointment in this cabinet is appropriate. Neither in terms of the need for this measure nor in terms of effectiveness has the cabinet been able to convince my group of the desirability of curfew. I told you before, we don't live at the time of the water disaster in 1953. Rather, we live in a time like 1973, a time when the cabinet is prepared to restrict citizens' fundamental rights for psychological effect. That is something my group will not vote for. This house shouldn't do that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u181	Thank you, Mrs Pouw. I call Mr Otten, who will speak on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u182	Mr. Chairman. Our group was and still believes that curfew can be a useful tool in combating corona contamination. The number of infections continues to decline and even starts to rise after last week's ice skating festival, where half of the Netherlands went loose. Some CDAs are still in the ice pack even now, despite the already deployed thaw. Mr. Chairman. So we recognize the need for curfew. We also think it has an effect, especially in a comprehensive package of well-coordinated measures that can reinforce each other. Today we are discussing the Temporary Law limitation in the open air covid-19, a rather curious corona-euphemism. As far as we are concerned, the discussion of whether the curfew contributes 10% or 15% to the control of infections is very academic. We believe that this is an effective global approach which must also be communicated to the population. That's what it's been up to since the beginning. The Corona approach of the cabinet is often more like an uncoordinated collision car policy, with less and less people getting on with it. We have just seen a sample of this in the debate on order. Since our group does not participate in the Dutch Parliamentary elections on 17 March, because the Dutch electorate is not, in our opinion, waiting for all kinds of opportunistic splinter rattoe, we do not have to spawn voters with smooth electoral stories. That is why, in this debate, we can simply say what it says. To quote the Minister's beloved Johan Cruijff again: I am not hard, but honest. An increasingly large part of the Dutch population is tired of the corona measures and there is an atmosphere of: well, after me the flood, I believe it all with that corona! According to others, like a certain two-man group here, corona is nothing more than a flu and no measures are needed at all. Consistency is sometimes a long way to go in this corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. People are getting tired of the measures, and we understand that. This is also due to the inimitable yo-yo policy of the Rutte cabinet, which is often clinging around and all this crisis is failing to get its priorities right. A lot of time has been wasted on the wrong things, such as a Corona App Act, which you never hear about again, and an emergency law with a lot of legal flaws. This was done instead of conducting effective crisis management and planning a good vaccination policy, to mention just a few examples. And now again this bill Temporary law stays restrictions in the open air covid-19 as an emergency dressing to repair the curfew, after the court shut down that Tuesday. It's starting to be a hopeless situation for a lot of people. To name but a few: entrepreneurs, students, students, catering and retail trade. We understand that very well. As the father of two teenagers, I see the limitations of online education every day. An entire generation is at risk of falling behind in development if this continues for a very long time. It's also because of our Dutch folk. A large number of people know better themselves and simply do not stick to the measures. Some even propagate that fanatically, so the corona infections are always not under control. Of course, we'll never get there! That is why we believe that the curfew, although not popular at all, is a necessary evil. So, Mr President, at least everyone knows how we feel about curfew. So much for the good news for Minister Grapperhaus. Because what makes this Minister of Justice a mess in the legal field! I was once a lawyer attached to one of the predecessors of Allen & Overy, whose minister was the managing partner for years. At that time, I was thinking that the legal level was extremely high. That's why I chose that office at the time. I wouldn't have expected this from such an experienced legal professional as the Minister. Moreover, the Minister was not yet working there in my time, I say for the sake of completeness. As an archetypal Zuidas attorney, this minister tries with a lot of legal craftsmanship, loopholes and tricks to send the States General into the woods, also against explicit advice from the Council of State. That is how we read in the Minister's letter to this Chamber last Wednesday that he insists that he has chosen the right legal route, while he had not received a firm punch from the judge less than 24 hours earlier. This may be how you run a Zuidas office, although I doubt it, but that is not how it works in our parliamentary democracy. Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows of course the first aid box, which is present in every household and in every company; first aid in case of accidents. Sometimes we get the feeling that the Minister of Justice and Security sees the Senate more as an EKBO box: First Chamber At Accidents. Apparently, this has now become a permanent part of the cabinet toolbox for the fight against corona. If another piece of bad legislation has been delivered by the cabinet, we will have to hold an emergency debate and the accidents of Rutte, De Jonge and Grapperhaus will have to be repaired and resuscitated by this Chamber with bloodshed, in order to stop the legal bleeding quickly. Before I make a mistake, I don't make that mistake, was Cruijff's motto, of which the minister is such a supporter. I would advise the Minister to use that motto more often. Unfortunately, we are dealing with a pattern in the Rutte cabinet. I have already raised this structural problem on several occasions, with various rulers, in debates in this Chamber. Similarly, with this Minister, recently during the debate on Friday 8 January on the emergency repair law on the entry ban. The quality of legislation is becoming increasingly worrying. We saw this with the pfas, the nitrogen legislation, the Environment Act, the Merger Test Secondary Education Act, the Corona Wealth Act, of which several defects had already to be repaired and resolved, and the entry ban that was not properly regulated, to name but a few, but there are more examples. It's starting to become a pattern. As far as our group is concerned, there is a task for the Minister to make rapid improvements to this. Apparently, a bunch of coronawappies have better lawyers at their disposal than the Ministry of Justice and Security. The person responsible for this is sitting there, and that is Minister Grapperhaus. Mr. Chairman. While we are debating here, a kilometer away the emergency apple was going on at the courthouse in The Hague. We now know that this statement will be at 10 a.m. on Friday 26 February next week. I have a few specific legal questions for the Minister. How does the Minister see the interaction of the entry into force of this Temporary Law restriction in the open air in relation to the ruling of the court? We would like to have some clarification from the Minister on this. And should the old regime be repealed under Article 8 of the Extraordinary Powers Act, the Wbbbg, or is it automatically inoperative because the judge has already destroyed it? We would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the Minister, with a concrete roadmap and not, as usual, a global answer to this type of question by Minister, which is very specific and targeted. Mr President, I will conclude. As part of the overall package of measures to combat corona, we will support this emergency law, albeit with the necessary reservations, because we are aware that this is necessary to get out of this crisis more quickly. If it takes any longer, the consequences will be really disastrous. We will, however, table a motion in the second term to encourage the Minister to take short-term measures to drastically improve the quality of legislation. After listening to all the previous speakers, we therefore count on broad support for our motion. I would ask the President to put this motion straight to the vote today, at the same time as the legislative proposal. If we are going to vote by roll-call, we can also vote by roll-call. There really needs to be some change in the quality of legislation. We look forward to a thorough and substantive response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u183	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Your motion will be in your second term. Perhaps you would like to repeat your request. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u184	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been in a state of siege for almost a year. Our country is in the grip of elusive attackers: not visible, not audible and not tangible. A murdering army of snipers and transformers that mercilessly shoots at innocents, an army that then deviously transforms victims into soldiers of their own army and that regularly changes shape. More than a million Dutch were now directly victims of an attack in this guerrilla battle. Thousands are now dead and tens of thousands wounded. It is right that our government, since March last year, has put our country in the highest state of preparedness and mobilized all troops. I assume that this is done on the basis of Article 22 of the Dutch Constitution: the government is taking measures to promote public health. Far-reaching defence measures have now been taken with the agreement of most of our people and our Parliament. Unfortunately, it was not enough to defeat the attackers completely. This leads to a number of quacks who are now trying to undermine the authority of our OMT generals and slander our Prime Minister with pure personal attacks. With self-imagined truths, these charlatans undermine the science-based authority of the OMT and use it to activate demonstrations in some of the even inflammatory language, using the right of free speech. From a strategic defensive point of view, this may be a difficult side effect for the government of our rule of law, but not legally exceptional. The police's unnecessarily powerful response to the demonstrations was exceptional and led to an unnecessary rearguard fight with the demonstrators with large-scale destabilising riots. It was a culpable error of judgment on the part of the police and therefore also on the part of the government. This did not serve the fight against our real enemy, the murdering snipers. Besides, it was a waste of time. There is no point in opening a second front against quacks. They have always been there in history and history proves that in the end they shoot themselves in their own foot. The power of the scientific argument of our OMT generals is untouchable compared to the fake news of the self-appointed quasi-scientists. The people will soon recognize that and drive out the quacks in the upcoming elections with pitch and feathers. Back to the battle against the invisible army. Our defensive measures have not been sufficient so far, so our enemy has been in control of the whole country for months now. In fact, with new variants these last lines of defense are bombarded. Reason for the government to take a far-reaching defence measure against the advice of the Council of State by declaring war on the enemy in the form of the establishment of a curfew. That was a second culpable error of assessment, as this was not done on the right legal grounds. The quacks also play a dubious role in this. Instead of unitedly competing with the enemy, they seek loopholes in the law to make holes in our defense. In doing so, they share responsibility for the many unnecessary deaths and injuries which are likely to be regrettable. Mr. Chairman. Every victim is one too many. The government indicates that the curfew reduces the number of attacks combined with the limited visitation regime by as much as 8% to 13%. Measuring is knowing. Guessing dance school holders miss the punch line. Last week, 25,600 people were attacked by the enemy. In the week before the curfew was set, there were 37,000. A difference of 11,488, or 31% less. Without curfew, more people would have been attacked in the last week, based on estimates from the OMT, between 2.048 and 2.876. It's a substantial number of fewer victims, so somewhere there's something working. Mr. Chairman. Every victim is one too many. In the first wave I myself barely survived an attack by the enemy; many were less lucky. I'm not gonna let anyone get hurt like that. The charlatans make it look like the curfew is the heaviest cure in this war. However, everyone has a hard time, from hairdresser to wholesale shop, from catering to sports club and soccer supporters, from cultural organisations to large-scale event organizers, from youth organisations to fairground operators, because that is what the young people want to make use of. Moreover, when it comes to serious human consequences, the most serious measure was to lock up the older generation in the elderly and nursing homes for months. They had to stay in their room for months from four to three, were not allowed to go outside and had to fight in great loneliness and without contact with children or grandchildren. They were trapped like rats and had nowhere to go, while the virus was brought in from the outside by nursing because of the lack of personal protective equipment. Very often that struggle in death ended in complete loneliness. You don't hear the quacks about that. Moreover, I believe that the latter is worthy of a parliamentary survey. Mr. Chairman. There's hope. D-day's here. We're getting help from the Allied troops who can use a new vaccination tool to defeat the enemy. This will take some time, even because of the petty management and execution of the government side. Until then, the government should be able to take all the measures necessary to defeat our enemy, if necessary with a new law for curfew, but with a restriction that this can only be done within the constitutional procedures in force in our country. The fact that the government did not involve the First Chamber in this case does not fit in with those frameworks and that is the third error of assessment. In doing so, the government, in particular the Minister of Justice, collects three yellow cards in one file. I call on the Government and in particular the Minister of Justice to reflect on their own achievements in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u185	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u186	Before we proceed with the first-term response of the government, I have some household communications. In view of the course of the sitting, I shall suspend for 45 minutes for dinner after the first term of the government. After the dinner break we continue with the re- and rejoinder. Following the conclusion of the debate, I will suspend the sitting briefly for group discussions, after which the roll-call vote on the legislative proposal and, if necessary, one or more motions will take place. This is now foreseen in the course of the evening. In this connection, I would ask Members to be in the Knight's Room by 9 p.m. at the latest. As a result of the roll-call vote, all Members will receive an e-mail immediately. Perhaps in abundance, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are preparing curfew forms for your trip home. These forms can be found in the Noenzaal, in the mailroom and in the wardrobe of the Knight's Room. We need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u187	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to your Chamber for the willingness to meet here today, on this day that is not a meeting day. The cabinet believes that there is an urgent need to meet here today from the point of view of combating pandemics. Let me say straight away that the cabinet regrets the reason for this urgency. So far, several studies show that there is a great support for the curfew, which is being discussed here today. It is not good for confidence in these measures and in the fight against the pandemic in general if a court of convenience states in a preliminary judgment that the cabinet has used a inappropriate basis for that drastic measure. At the same time, the cabinet cannot fully rule out the emergence of such a situation in a long-term serious crisis such as this one. In these cases, the Cabinet considers it its duty to answer Parliaments in the interests of confidence in the crisis approach in society in order to do what it can to put an end to the situation that has arisen in the shortest possible time. For this reason, the emergency apple was introduced last Tuesday, and the decision was suspended on the same day, and the draft law before us was also tabled. Mr. Chairman. I'll assign my first term as follows. First of all, I should like to comment on the reasons why the cabinet believes that a curfew was and is urgent, and on the points of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity, because this is, of course, the main issue in the fight against pandemics. Then I will explain why the basis of the Wbbbg was chosen. I shall then turn to the questions relating to the current legislative proposal. Finally, I would like to answer a number of points which are more relevant to the question: how do you proceed with the fight against pandemics? Mr. Chairman. Why was and is this curfew necessary and why is it proportional? The curfew has been mentioned by the Outbreak Management Team as a possible measure at the end of last year. It is now well known that this Minister at the time felt that the curfew was a non-proportional means of combating the pandemic at that time. Since then, time and unfortunately also the virus have not stood still. In the months of November and December and the first half of January, the situation surrounding the epidemic has deteriorated further and the cabinet has taken more and more radical measures. You can remember that the cabinet already set up half a lockdown on October 13th. The cabinet then decided on 14 December to tighten up the package of measures considerably. Almost all of the flow sites were closed, contact professions were no longer allowed, the non-essential retail sector was closed, indoor sports locations closed and a further tightening of the visit advice came. In fact, it was said at the time: there is a three-quarters lockdown. On 12 January, at his press conference, the Prime Minister said that there were still concerns, because we saw that you could have followed all of them, and that the indicators leading to this continued to fluctuate at a level that we had previously designated with each other as the highest level of seriousness/very serious. But it was also said: "The toolbox is almost empty. What measures can you take now?" The Outbreak Management Team gave an advice a week later, partly because of the great concerns there were about new emerging variants. These concerns are still there. First of all, this is the so-called British variant, the United Kingdom variant. It seemed to show a considerably greater infectiousness, at least in the countries where this variant had already been used, namely the United Kingdom and Ireland. In the meantime, a South African and a Brazilian variant had also been identified. I am not going to go into that in detail. You know that we discussed in this Chamber at the beginning of January an urgent legislative proposal at that time to ensure that the departure and entry to and from the Netherlands through passenger transport, such as an aircraft and the like, could be subjected to more tests and the like. In any case, on January 19th an urgent advice came from the Outbreak Management Team. The Outbreak Management Team advised to set a curfew. The proposed alternative was a stay-at-home order, which, according to the cabinet, would be too far-reaching. I would like to point out that such a stay-at-home order has been discussed in the countries I mentioned earlier where the British variant was so popular. On 20 January the final decision was taken by the cabinet, namely to take the decision on this serious measure, the curfew. Mr. Chairman. I should like to say quite clearly here: I also said this yesterday in the House of Representatives. I have always believed that there are enormous restrictions that we have had to impose on society in the context of the necessary pandemic control, but a measure which also limits people's ability to leave their homes in the evening and in the night hours really goes a step further than measures such as closing down restaurants, schools, museums and sports facilities; I mention them in random order. The Prime Minister announced this the same Wednesday at the press conference. The Prime Minister explained that we would then need a few days to get that all in place. This was not only for the enforcers who were under me and for the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also for employers, when it came to the employer's statements, the categories of exception and so on. That was not something that could have been explored before, for those who would have wondered, because it depended precisely on what the Outbreak Management Team saw in the development of the virus, where exactly it should land and where possible exceptions were possible. In those two days I would like to point out that the most pressing question came from employers' countries, namely four days. I would like to take this opportunity to reflect on the fact that, among other things, the judge of welfare said that you announced it on Wednesday and not immediately introduced it the next day. This really was the fastest possibility there was. Mr. Chairman. I have said to the Chamber at the beginning of December: if there is anything that can be done, if there is a curfew, I will do everything in my power to involve you in a debate in advance. That's what happened. That's what happened on that Thursday. You will find this in my reply to questions put by Members Kröger and Buitenweg on 9 December 2020. I'll get back to you on that. The measure was necessary due to the current acute phase of the fight against coronavirus. The OMT has been asked for an opinion on the effects of the curfew. The OMT, the Outbreak Management Team with your permission, has provided a forecast of the effectiveness of 8% to 13% based on literature studies and data from other EU countries, such as Austria. The OMT's 100th opinion of 15 February 2021 shows that the opinions are still up-to-date. The most recent estimate of the reproductive number, Rt, is 0.94. It's between 0.91 and 0.97. From 14 to 28 January 2021, the estimated reproduction number of the British variant is 37% higher than that of the classic variant. The estimate of the reproduction number of the British variant on January 28 was 1.13, while the reproduction number of the classical virus was 0.82 on that day. That reproduction number is the result of all the measures, i.e. at that time, on 28 January, and therefore also on the basis of the curfew already in force at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u188	This was an interesting list of the Minister's chronological order of all steps. In January, the Committee on Justice and Security raised the question of why the Minister had not informed the First Chamber of the curfew at all. It's got a lot of repercussions, the whole country's working on it, everyone's in a rush. A letter was sent to the Minister on 1 February, at the request of our group, among other things. We had to get the documents from the website of the House of Representatives; we were not informed. My question to the Minister is: why did you not involve the First Chamber in the decision-making of the curfew? It is, after all, a very far-reaching event, which also restricts the fundamental rights of many people. Surely it would have been on the road to involve the First Chamber in that early? Then you didn't have to come here afterwards to fix things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u189	I would like to comment on this in detail later. I'm now explaining proportionality. That is indeed all the figures of reproduction numbers and so on. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to this question systematically later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u190	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u191	I think that proportionality and necessity are very important; let us be clear about that. Whether it is the Wbbbg on which you base it or the Temporary Law measures covid-19, this is something that should in all cases look good. Mr. Chairman. Without the strict measures, the reproduction number would have been higher by the end of January and the spread of the virus would have been much faster. I pointed out to you just now, before the interruption, that the British variant was on 28 January 1.13. It may be assumed that without measures it would be much higher. The prevalence of infections in the population is still high. The reproductive number is about 1 per infection, so there is a large absolute number of new infections per day. It is estimated that half of all infections with a first day of disease around 31 January 2021 were caused by the British variant. In its opinion of 15 February, the OMT again expressed its views, for the second time, on the effect of curfew and visitor arrangements. That is an urgent opinion, as you know. The OMT concludes that the effect is consistent with the previously estimated reduction in the Rt value of approximately 10%. In its opinion, the OMT bases the 10% reduction on the following elements: Compliance with curfew is very high, namely 94%, especially compared to compliance with the urgent advice of one visitor per day. In this respect, the effects of the curfew and the adapted visitor scheme can be determined separately. Then there are a number of issues which can be decided together only for both measures. The average number of contacts has decreased compared to the period prior to the introduction of curfew and the one-visitor scheme. At the same time, the OMT says that it is too soon after the introduction of the curfew to make a statement on the exact size of the effect from the calculation of the reproduction number and from reports. Think also of all the uncertainties. The numbers of ic and hospital patients included follow the prognosis of an effect of curfew and the advice of the adapted visitor scheme. These are better than a forecast where these measures would have no effect. So the OMT advised us to extend the curfew. Mr. Chairman. Then there's proportionality. The measure is aimed at controlling and combating the pandemic. This importance has to be weighed heavily, particularly at this stage of the pandemic, with the emergence of more contagious variants of the virus and against the background of the existing high level of infection. There is no doubt that the establishment of a curfew limits a number of fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of movement and, more generally, the right to respect for privacy. These restrictions, contrary to the importance of the fight against pandemics, are considered proportionate by the Cabinet, partly in view of the way in which the curfew was designed. The curfew is limited and applies only between 9 p.m. and 04.30 p.m. This means that, as far as curfew limits the exercise of fundamental rights, it is only in the later evening and the night. You can recall that a motion by Mr Jetten of D66 was tabled in the Chamber debate of 21 January 2021, which ensured that curfew did not start at 8.30 p.m., as proposed, but at 9 p.m. More attention has been paid to the fact that people have the beginning of the evening to be outside, shopping and such after their homework. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, exceptions have been made in the scheme, e.g. in the case of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are all kinds of other examples that have been made exceptions. I'd like to say this about that. That help to the needy is really an important exception. It is a very good arrangement that I have designed together with Mr Blokhuis, so that people for whom staying indoors is psychologically really a problem and goes against what is good for them, with a rather simple means of proof can still go out. I'm not going to list all the exceptions. They are very carefully weighed, for example students who have evening exams because they cannot do it during the day. Why not? Because they don't have enough space in the halls because of the 1.5 meters. This has also been taken into account in good consultation with OCW. Now I'm gonna name them all again. But I want to say this: if you're talking about a proportionality regulation, you have to look at the front, but you also have to look at the back: okay, how are you going to fix it and how does it work? Mr. Chairman. Mental well-being has also been discussed, especially the impact for young adults. There has been input from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. I will come back to that later. Many additional resources have been allocated by the Cabinet to make accompanying policies, especially for groups affected by these and other radical measures in their social and mental well-being. Predictability is important. Avoid yojo policy, because that will be difficult to understand. That's about proportionality. There are still questions about subsidiarity. I also have questions on this part from the Members I will be passing by shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u192	Nevertheless, Mr Nicolaï wants to make an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u193	I actually have two questions. I note that the Minister has already dealt with the requirement of necessity and has now actually dealt with the requirement of proportionality. I have two questions. From the Minister's response, I noted that, in his opinion, factual data had indeed been produced showing that the curfew was effective. The court ruling states that the OMT, in its own words, has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to the reduction of the virus. That's the OMT's point of view. Then how is it that the Minister here suggests that there are actual indications? That's one. Two. As far as proportionality is concerned, he says that mental well-being has been taken into account. I would very much like to know how that was taken into account, because I do not hear that. There were a lot of questions from a lot of senators in that area. I thought the minister was gonna tell me how that trade-off took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u194	I have a number of questions here from a number of senators, from the PvdA, from the VVD and also from Mr Nicolaï. Maybe it's good to walk it off later and see if I haven't mentioned anything at that point. On Mr Nicolaï's first point, I would like to say the following. In its two opinions in which they indicated "what is going on about, what can we see of effects" the OMT has reduced from a number of investigations by the behavioral unit of the RIVM that at least 10% less contact was measured. The OMT has said, which is reflected in both opinions: we see in this and a number of other circumstances and measurements made that the estimate of 8% to 13% is true on the basis of findings in scientific research abroad. We're not sure yet, but we're assuming now that it could be 10%. I would like to emphasise the following. Mr Nicolaï is, of course, right to say that it has not yet been fully proven. That's also a bit of the point that the member Prince mentioned: this is progressing, seeing what scientific research has produced so far and seeing how you can measure it further, but it'll take a while before we know for sure. But what is involved here, partly in the light of proportionality, is that there is very high compliance. Not just that. There is also a high degree of acceptance of the curfew measure, as can be seen from several reliable large surveys. Those are things that play a part in that, but I have just honestly indicated in my term that a very sharp measurement of the exact size of the effect is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u195	Now it's all about percentages again. We know about these percentages by heart, but that was about percentages that related to both the curfew and the one-person visit scheme. Today we'll talk about curfew. I thought the Minister was going to prove that he met the requirements of necessity. He cannot refer to estimates relating to two different instruments. Can the Minister once again state what the government is basing itself on to say that there are sufficient factual data relating solely to curfew, which allows it to say that curfew is a substantial contribution to the fight against the epidemic? If we say that they are not there but that we hope that they are there and we take it for granted, then that is also an answer, but that is a different answer than what is always being suggested, namely that there are factual data on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u196	I did say that, but I will repeat my text on that. I said that in the opinion of 15 February, the OMT reiterated the impact of the curfew and visitor scheme and concluded that the effect is consistent with the previously estimated reduction of the R value of about 10%. They base this on a number of components. I'd like to recite them all. I have also said that there is also the visitor scheme, but the OMT points out that both compliance and acceptance of the visitor scheme is considerably lower. The OMT says: we charge most of that 10%, which we now determine anyway, but that could be even more; 8% to 13% of the curfew. I can't be more precise. In the context of proportionality and necessity, I shall go into the subsidiarity test later on, as a cabinet, we must at some point take a weighted decision and say: we believe that this is already convincing. Then we take all these aspects of high compliance and so on. We say, in the light of the development of these more contagious variants, that this is a necessary measure and a proportionate one; I have already mentioned this. And I would like to touch on subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u197	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u198	Then the Minister and I agree that these are two measures which are jointly concerned by 8% to 13%. I hear the Minister say that the curfew is supposed to have an important part in that, but that is more a supposition than there is actual data on that. So it could also be that of that 10% only 2% is due to the curfew and 8% to something else. So no matter how you turn it or turn it, I don't hear the minister say there's hard data. That is possible; let him say so. I don't understand why we're all making such a big deal about it. But then all we get is the question of whether this is acceptable to the legal provision. So again, what are the hard factual data?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u199	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u200	I hope Mr Nicolaï will forgive me for correcting him. I also said that 8% to 13% in foreign literature studies is the effect of curfew. Period. I hear someone in the room says no in response to this. To respond spontaneously to this: these foreign studies are about the isolated effect of curfew. Now it says...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u201	Minister, would you mind correcting the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u202	Yeah, sorry, I got distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u203	It's now tilted the other way. Test, test, you said yesterday in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u204	There are a lot of noises in the room, but that will be my own answer, Mr President. Let's go back. That 8% to 13% in the literature studies relates to curfew. Then I gave a whole list of figures, which the OMT briefly said: "We are already seeing 10% effect. We cannot yet divide that between the curfew and the one-person visitor scheme, but we do think that this is largely due to the curfew, if not entirely, because this one-person visitor scheme is being respected much less and has much less support." I have also said quite frankly: the OMT cannot say it so precisely at the moment, but just like the first time the curfew was set, we must take all this into account in that necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. We have all taken this with us: that 8% to 13% based on literature research and the fact that the toolbox was empty and that the alternative advice was a full stay-at-home order. To be honest, I have to say that the OMT is not quite able to explain this at the moment, but it is said that there are sufficient indications or that there is sufficient probability that it will have such an effect, and we in our cabinet believe that this has already given us the need and proportionality. With all the exceptions, I won't go in. So you should not address the OMT, but you should address me on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u205	When you talk about proportionality, there is always the question of whether the same effect can also be achieved with less far-reaching measures, for example by an urgent opinion. The Minister himself referred to it: it is quite remarkable how much support there is for a curfew and how willing it is to listen to it. Why wasn't that chosen then? That could have been a full instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u206	We can see that under the one-person visitor scheme. I think that's a really heavy thing for people. That's an urgent advice. The figures for acceptance and compliance are really a lot lower than for curfew. We have seen throughout the entire Corona crisis response that these measures are coming hard. We have to put the tooth on top of each other. We really do need to do so in the form of measures. This can be seen in the respect and support for urgent opinions. That is even true in the case of handwashing advice, if I may take that as an example. I don't know what the percentage is now, but a few months ago it was less than 50%. Yes, Mr. Chairman, please don't look at me like that. That was less than 50%, and it was an urgent opinion. That doesn't mean anything. So we need this as a measure, but the special thing is that I say through you to Mr Van Dijk, President of the Commission, that the curfew as a measure has support for the Dutch people, as is shown by research by I&D and the RIVM itself. I think that's extremely good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u207	It is precisely because of the latter that I would say that an urgent opinion might have worked too, because the people seem to believe in this. But a little more broadly, I have also tried to say this in my contribution, and the cabinet still chooses the line that if the measures are not properly complied with, then there will be even more measures that are even stricter. Is that still the best way of influencing you? Or should we explain much more and make greater use of our own responsibilities and so on? Should we not seduce more than just impose a more stringent ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u208	The developments in compliance I keep saying 'compliance', but you often find that in the statistics such as 'compliance', which I think is English for 'compliance', really simply show that we need it to be imposed as a measure. This is not only the case in the Netherlands, but also in other countries. That may also be part of helping everyone in the severity. I also found it striking what Mrs Bikker said about this in her first term. We also need it towards each other. My enforcers can only appeal to people if there's something to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u209	Mr. Nicolaï, another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u210	I shall now turn to subsidiarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u211	Mr. Nicolaï, another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u212	I'd like to be challenged by the Minister, so I took the OMT advice. It says that an evaluation of curfew as set in France shows that curfew could lead to a reduction of 8% to 13% of an average Rt value. It is clear from the literature that it is difficult to assess a measure individually because they are almost always taken in bundles. How much effect a curfew actually has... and so on. Even in France, curfew was not taken on its own, but was included in a bundle of other instruments. I regret that the Minister is suggesting that there are hard data showing that the effect of curfew has been assessed on its own, but this OMT opinion also shows that this is not the case. I would like to know how the Minister looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u213	That is only a fourth question at the same point, so I suggest we finish that part. I'll give you a second term later. After that, the government will also be given a second term, so we can continue to do so in detail. I'd like a brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u214	Yes. What it says is that French research says 8% to 13% by curfew. But more measures have also been taken there, so that 8% to 13% is a distillate, but it does relate to curfew. That's what we were just talking about. Therefore, the OMT says that other countries see 8% to 13% as attributable to curfew based on their investigations. Here the OMT says very clearly at the moment: we see 10% reduction in contacts; for the time being we assume that the vast majority is also due to the measurements of compliance and the like due to the curfew. And again through you, Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr Nicolaï that it remains that we are not yet able to say exactly what is happening. But that it is a measure that pays a lot in the fight against virus, my father would have said earlier that it saves a sip on a drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u215	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u216	Mr. Chairman. I was at subsidiarity. Mr Van Dijk asked about this: could not a lighter measure, an urgent opinion, be enough? I think I have already said what is necessary. I would also like to say to Mr Van Dijk, through you, that I mentioned that in the urgent opinion of 15 January, the OMT proposed a much heavier measure, which we in the cabinet said we should not want. So much for subsidiarity. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions on this part, first of all from Mr Recourt on behalf of the PvdA, about measures that can better promote home working. We know that the workplace is indeed an important source of contamination and that too many people are going to work when that is not necessary. Therefore, the urgent opinion remains: stay home or work unless there is really no other way. We see according to figures from the RIVM, among others, that 80% of the people who can work at home do so. That's a really high number. There are, of course, also professions where this is simply not possible. The point is that homework is very difficult to implement. How do you determine who can work at home and how do you make it enforceable? It's going the way of a stay-at-home order and that's actually even further than a curfew would be. However, I would say to Mr Recourt that we are working together with the social partners on criteria to further promote the latter 20%. And we are urgently working on a legislative proposal that will allow temporary closure of business premises if there is a risk to public health and the further spread of COOVID-19, the so-called corona fireplaces at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u217	The Minister was a little quick on subsidiarity. I just wanted to ask one more question. If I say it out of my mind, the Court of Justice has also proposed a number of less stringent measures. One of them was stricter enforcement on the.... Now I've lost the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u218	Think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u219	Not isolation, but... the quarantine duty, is being whispered to me now. Thank you! One of these measures was stricter enforcement of the quarantine obligation. I can imagine that this was once weighed by the cabinet. Can the Minister tell us how he weighs that against curfew?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u220	I had intended to stay away from that ruling, especially now that the court has said: next Friday, to stay away from that ruling. Let me put it right: we have a very limited legal quarantine obligation in the Netherlands. The enforcement of this is rather circumstantial. In other words, the chairman of the security region may impose a kind of house arrest on a person who does not comply with an imposed quarantine after an infection has been detected. That's what that duty comes from. At the moment, the cabinet is investigating whether we can extend the quarantine obligation in certain situations. I know that Germany has powers in this area that go further. This is due to legislative roots and traditions such as those in Germany. In the Netherlands, however, it would only yield a very small amount in terms of combating the pandemic. Let me make this clear: as a cabinet, I am insisting that we have really looked on all sides to see if there are any other tools available to combat the pandemic properly. But at some point you must note that the legal possibilities, but also the practical possibilities that exist... Another example: if we in the Netherlands, with its open borders, were to say that we are going to set up border controls, we would not be able to do so in the first place in terms of enforcement, because then we would have to triple or quadruple the police and the military. Secondly, however, this would confuse all kinds of economic border traffic and imports too, look at what happened at the Brexit. So we need to see what's legally possible. I heard Mrs Faber today use the gorgeous old expression 'exercising the horse behind the cart'. That expression is very appealing to me, because in this case you would push that horse a huge end behind the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u221	Just a brief reaction. I thank the Minister for the answer. In fact, I only raised this issue because I found the point made by the judge to be very easy. I know that you do not make any statements about this, but it also has very far-reaching consequences. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u222	I had planned not to react too much to things that are not about this bill, but this triggered me anyway. I just want to abstract what the judge said about that. The Minister says that our legal possibilities for imposing a quarantine obligation are limited; this can only be done with established contamination. Then you get a letter from the president of the security region and then you have to stay home. Yes, that legal possibility is limited, but I do not think it is being applied. So my question is: is this possibility being applied? Is there any policy on that? The question "if no, why not?" Maybe it's for another debate. The question now is whether this possibility is being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u223	Yeah, it's used. I started doing this last summer, because there is also a role for the Public Prosecutor. That possibility is being used, but I have to admit... I should suggest that you send a note to your Chamber just to show me exactly how that works. But that is such a duty... In addition, there has never been a pandemic like this. That duty has assumed that someone comes from a country and brings something, if I may say so, and that someone is told: you must sit at home. If it turns out that that person does not comply with that, then that chairman can impose it. That's just not very focused on this pandemic. In this respect, our legislation is really difficult to achieve legally. I am also talking about all kinds of matters relating to privacy protection and the like. However, we are still looking at that, because I would also like to see that we could do more. The quarantine is only observed by 40% to 45% of people. We could really win in that. All I can do is summon everyone who's involved: go into quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u224	I would like to receive that letter, because I believe that this is also the case. Yes, the enforcement and follow-up is very complicated. But we also learn from curfew, for example, that the follow-up is much better if something is a duty than if it is an urgent advice. Now people get the urgent advice to stay home when they're infected. It is my belief that if one receives a letter from the GGD saying "it is your duty to stay at home and if you do not, then it can be maintained there," you will only need that enforcement for a very small part. But I'd like to see the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u225	Yes, but I still wanted to serve Mrs De Boer at this point, because it is not that simple. I get the bill back from the Council of State if I cannot show that I have ample opportunity to maintain an obligation I impose. This is where it really plays... Let me put it this way. We should lay down in the law what Mrs De Boer points out, for example that you have a quarantine obligation if you have been in contact with someone. However, in the legislative process, you must also show how to follow up on this. That's really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u226	Thank you. I suggest we return to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u227	But at least I brought that letter for Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u228	The bill is not about the quarantine obligation, but about the curfew, as Mrs De Boer also pointed out. I therefore propose that we return to that. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u229	I hear the Minister say that border controls are not feasible, that they are not economically feasible, that they are not enforceable, and that we must, above all, preserve the open borders. Meanwhile, our stores are closed. Our catering business is closed. Our carnival operators have had no income for months, et cetera, et cetera. In the meantime, the police can maintain that damned curfew. Why can these measures, which are equally disastrous for the economy and perhaps even more disastrous, be put in place and not control our borders? Hundreds of asylum seekers walk into the Netherlands every week, many of which also involve corona contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u230	Now we are really going beyond the limits of the bill. So I'd like a brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u231	A very brief answer, Mr President. I referred to the situation we saw with the Brexit in January. What are you supposed to do? That is what I meant by the economic consequences. You're gonna have to put those border booths back and forth. You can still see them a little folkloresk when you go through Luxembourg. That is border boxes with barriers and that sort of thing. This is going to cause enormous delays and difficulties in freight traffic, supplies and so on. This is going to cause a lot of problems around people waving a paper saying that they are commuting across borders and the like. When we talk about proportionality and necessity, you have to look at how we weigh these two things against each other at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u232	Thank you. I suggest we go back to curfew, Mr. Van Hattem, because if we're going to talk about border controls now, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u233	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. We're talking curfew. It is a far-reaching measure, but a measure that is perhaps much more needed, such as border controls, is being made very cramped. Then a doom statue is sketched of barriers and of papers at the border, as 30 years ago. Well, you also have digital manifests these days. There are all kinds of technical aids that are simply a solution for road transport. Then I would say: try to do so rather than saddle us with a curfew, because then we can at least control our borders and prevent hundreds of asylum seekers from entering the Netherlands every week. At least we can make that shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u234	Thank you. Back to curfew. Mr. Nicolaï is going to ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u235	It is, of course, inevitable that other measures will be included, because we are talking about subsidiarity. Mrs De Bruijn also pointed out: what about compliance with quarantine obligations? That was a question from me, too. Now I hear the minister say that 40% of the people who are supposed to be in quarantine are just going back to the streets, going to Albert Heijn and I don't know what. How much profit can be made in relation to the potential profit of curfew? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u236	I'd like a brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u237	Did the Minister investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u238	There would certainly be profit to be gained, but the problem is first and foremost legal; I have already said that. In fact, it is very doubtful whether the imposition of a quarantine obligation on everyone, given all aspects of privacy and personal protection, is well placed in our legal system and whether there is a political majority in favour of it. The question then arises as to whether it can be maintained. One of the aspects of proportionality and subsidiarity is, of course, that the curfew is, in any case, also a measure which, let me say, allows very good and targeted enforcement. I don't think we need much explanation for that. Again, the government is still looking at how we can do something more about the quarantine obligation. That is where Mr Nicolaï, and Mrs De Boer, of course, are the first to have a concern. Last time, at the beginning of January, I listed in your Chamber everything that the VWS Ministry is doing to propagate it "go into quarantine." They also offer people courses: how to go into quarantine, how to do that, and I don't know what. There's a lot going on in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u239	At the first lockdown, my daughter was in London. If you went out there, you'd get $10,000 fine. They had your phone number, and then they just called you. I can see people nodding. If people realized you weren't at home, you'd have that fine right away. The fear of that went so well that my daughter and all the others just didn't go out on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u240	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u241	So there's more to it than locking people up. Now all people who are not sick are actually locked up, because people who are sick go out. The Minister says: I cannot maintain that and such a curfew is easy to maintain. I think that is a very special way of reasoning. I would like to discuss this with the Minister. Maybe not now, but later in a term. But it is a point that is very essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u242	Of course, you can ask questions about this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u243	That's a misunderstanding. Not everyone who gets quarantine advice is infected. People who get quarantine advice have been in contact with someone who is or may be infected. I find it very difficult to judge that point. What you are describing, of course, is very unpleasant to me, but that is what it is like in some other countries. In Ireland, the police have set up roadblocks. Those are also just other considerations that you should or should not be able to make at any time. Here we have said that the curfew in the light of the three elements I mentioned, necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity, and given the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, is proportionate. Such a stay-at-home order as my sister-in-law lives in England We found a lot heavier in all considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u244	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u245	I didn't mean the quarantine if you were your roommate, etc. I meant people who would have to quarantine under the law that Mrs. De Boer was talking about. Then it's proven you're contagious. If people who have been shown to be contagious just go out on the street, there is much more profit to be gained than at curfew. I get the fear that the minister says: that curfew is easy to control, because I just drive the five times eight around the city and I see it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u247	I would like to make that point quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u248	My explanation is not entirely justified by Mr Nicolaï. I think I explained that it's not just a matter of: that's easy; then we can moo around the city with a siren. It's not like that. I did say that all these elements play a role in the consideration you make in all respects. Again, there must be no misunderstanding. I've already promised Mrs. De Boer a letter about it. The quarantine obligation we have in the Netherlands has only a very limited scope, a very limited scope. I have said before that it is not going to put a lot in the basket in terms of range and effect. I'll work it out in the letter for your room. I had questions. I suppose I've already answered most of it. But still a little while. The PvdA, Mr Recourt, asked what the criteria are for prolonging the curfew. It is clear that it is a very difficult measure. We also said that we are assessing it separately on 23 February next. It must, of course, be considered in relation to other measures. The epidemiological picture, but also the epidemiological picture, I would like to make it very clear that the broad social balance plays a major role in this. The CDA, Mrs Prins, asked about the insights behind the figures of transport movements. Since the introduction of the curfew on 23 January, we have seen a real reduction in mobility at night, both nationally and internationally, from 50% to 75%. The number of parking transactions decreased by 56% in those hours. It appears that between 9 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. the number of passengers has fallen from 7% to 3%. These 3% are mainly travellers covered by one of the exceptions. The traffic intensity on the public road between 9 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. decreased by about 40%, even by about 60% on weekends. OV check-ins between 9 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. decreased by approximately 60% on working days and by approximately 75% on weekends. On the basis of these figures up to and including 17 February, we can really say that since the introduction of curfew there has been a very strong decline in evening mobility and that it has remained stable since its introduction. I believe that Mr Nicolaï asked a question about moving mobility to earlier today, but I do not know if I have that right. Such relocation cannot be demonstrated on the basis of the available figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u249	That relocation earlier in the day I see in practice. Every day I see hardworking Dutch people go home quickly to be home before curfew or to be able to get to the sport sooner. People are still trying to reach their home just before 9:00 p.m. But these figures on less mobility do not say anything about infections or the effect on care. Can the Minister establish a clear link between less mobility relocations and the effects on health care? Because those figures, this link, I cannot see back in the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u250	The connecting link is of course always "contacts." We see that there is less mobility during the hours of curfew, so fewer opportunities to move or to have contacts. So we see significantly less visits and so on during those hours. Contacts are the central point. What does a measure do to reduce contacts? This ultimately translates into how that measure can contribute to the R-number. Because that R-number says how many people can infect one person. And that eventually translates back into health care. I admit I say it here in three or four sentences, while Professor Van Dissel always does it much more carefully in a piece of 40 sheets. But that's what I wanted to spare you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u251	But it is and remains an assumption that it is one-on-one related to the number of infections and the number of people entering care. For example, if someone is alone in his car in the evening or is only running outside, I'm just saying something about this, doesn't it have any effect on these measures? Can the Minister explain why he is so prominent in bringing out the figures for the number of traffic movements? That's all nice and nice, but what does this say about the effectiveness of curfew for, for example, the effect on care? What specific criteria can be attached to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u252	I have submitted these mobility data because mobility itself primarily leads to more contacts and because mobility can also bring you to more contacts. When you see mobility decrease, you also see that it is good, because it ultimately reduces the number of contacts. And then the one-on-one relationship with care. We have made it very clear at a very early stage in the fight against pandemics that the R-factor is one of the most clear indicators that makes that connection. 'Cause it says how many people can infect one person. We see that the old variant currently has a reproduction number of....what exactly did I say? Okay, okay, okay, I have to check it out, but I think it's called the "wild variant," the variant we originally had here. The British version was on January 28, 1.13. That was a week after the curfew was introduced. This means that the British variant will lead to more infections. If that R goes up above 1, you get an exponential increase in the number of infections. I do not need to explain that, from a statistical point of view, there are a number of people who end up in hospital. And some of them end up on the ice again because of the seriousness of whether they die. At least that is a very clear chain from the moment of the R-number. Mr. Chairman. I had received questions from Mr Nicolaï. I thought I'd already dealt with him on the issue of collateral damage. It is really taken into account in the weighting by the cabinet and earlier by the OMT, as I have already indicated. I also have Mr Nicolaï's question as to whether we have been able to see what contribution can be expected from stopping unnecessary air traffic and better enforcing quarantine. We talked about that last one. I'm more concerned with air traffic now. The OMT shall assess the possible need for flight bans. That will advise as soon as necessary. At the moment, the situation is that no countries need be added to the list we already have, as you know, given the double-test obligation and urgent quarantine advice. At the moment, therefore, the cabinet does not announce any additional flight bans. To return to the quarantine, the cabinet is indeed looking at a legal obligation to quarantine after a trip to a high-risk area. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV asked how the need for curfew relates to the figures in the AD article based on estimates of RIVM. The AD article describes the contagion rates of the British variant and the investigations of the RIVM. At the moment we see that the number of infectious diseases with the British and with the classic variant has increased again. Unfortunately, we also see other variants moving forward. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second part, and a number of Members have raised pressing questions about this. Why was the basis of the Wbbbg initially chosen? In the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic there are very restrictive measures, as I have already said, but a requirement not to leave home between certain hours is even more restrictive. So they asked why the Wbbg? Let me pick this up on two points. First of all, I am going to say immediately, and I said this at the beginning of January, in response to an interruption by Mr Otten, that the quality of legislative lawyers is excellent. I'll vouch for that. If something is not right, then you know who it is; not them. But the second issue is what Mr Backer so beautifully formulated as 'considerable and not reckless'. I think I should simply answer for that, and I will do so quickly, if I am accused of not being thoughtful and reckless, at least as a cabinet, but I am standing here. Mr. Chairman. There is a basis in an existing law for restricting the freedom of movement to enter the street, i.e. staying in the open air. That's Article 8 of the Extraordinary Powers Act, the Wbbbg. I would just like to mention this in full, for the people listening or watching. That law is intended for extraordinary circumstances. The cabinet has always believed that these extraordinary circumstances could arise and that then the Wbbbg was the right basis to arrange a curfew. That is what I have always said in the House of Representatives. I mentioned earlier, among other things, but there have been several people who answered the questions raised by Mr Kröger and Mr Buitenweg on 6 November 2020. I replied on 9 December 2020. Then I pointed this out very clearly and said: the Wbbbg or a new law. There was also the fact that in the Twm's parliamentary treatment the curfew was not to be settled. I would also like to remind you that the original Twm bill has been thinned by many in the consultation, so to speak. I hear somewhere the word "critically viewed" singing around. That Twm has become much more limited. In answer to questions about the Twm, the Eerste Kamer also asked that the Wbbbg or a whole new law should be discussed. I notice that there are people at the speaker's seat, but maybe I can explain how things turned out first. I'd like to stop, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u253	Then let me make up my mind and give the floor to Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u254	I was addressed by the Minister. It is true that we have been discussing the quality of legislation in this House for some time now. Mr Backer of D66 has done so on several occasions, as well as spokesmen from other parties. I asked about this last time. Is it the law lawyers? Why does the cabinet keep running to the emergency room in the First Chamber to repair the laws with steam and boiling water? This is an expression that's been flying all the way after all this emergency legislation, because I hear her every day. It is not the legislative lawyers, but it is a structural problem. We have seen it with a lot of legislation, with the nitrogen law, the Environment law and the corona legislation where there is no overall approach. I call that crash car policy. Mr Nicolaï always talks about 10% or 15% at curfew. Yeah, that's like when you're on a plane, you're wondering if the left wing or the right wing is 40% responsible for flying, while you can't fly without a tail and without a motor. It's a global approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u255	Mr. Otten, you're repeating yourself now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u256	But why, I ask the Minister, does this legislation always go wrong? Something's going wrong somewhere. Is that incompetence? Or is it unwilling because one wants to put Parliament, including this First Chamber, out of play in one way or another? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u257	I would remind you that we are not dealing here with legislative lawyers or other civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u258	I didn't bring that up at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u259	I refer to Rule 42 (2) GW. The Minister is fully responsible for the officials. We'll talk to the minister. Officials cannot defend themselves, so we do not raise them here. Nor can they be part of your question and were wrongly part of your input. I now give the floor to the Minister to answer your question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u260	I insist on the point that the quality of the officials responsible for legislation in the various departments is really very good, to put it first. The second point, the emergency services, is nothing to be ashamed of. We're dealing with a pandemic here, which has made some very unexpected movements. I heard one of your Members speaking quite critically about the law that I discussed as a matter of urgency at the beginning of January. As I said, the specifically targeted covid law was ultimately a law with a somewhat limited range. We have to face that. At some point in the House's proceedings, a part of the law was killed that saw it possible to take measures in the event of unforeseen circumstances. That is a choice that we made at some point in the parliamentary debate, but it led, for example, to the fact that we had to establish with each other at the beginning of January that there was no proper legal basis to enable these tests to be carried out on entry. I say out loud that I am very happy that we have a parliamentary democracy here where the Chambers are prepared to look closely at it in the short term. I want to make it clear that I appreciate this very much. I would point out that it is not appropriate, as Mr Otten does, to suggest that legislative lawyers are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u261	I wasn't suggesting that at all. Minister Grapperhaus brought up legislative lawyers, not me. I was just asking how it could be that there is a structural lack of good quality of legislation. We see this across the board, including in other ministries. I see a task for the Minister of Justice to carry out some sort of quality check so that it doesn't occur. I didn't take the word "legislator" in my mouth at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u262	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u263	The Minister brought that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u264	Whoa, Mr. Otten. You have taken that word in your mouth even in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u265	Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u266	I let it go for a while, but Article 42 (2) of the Constitution dictates that we do not do so here. If you'd like to finish your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u267	Then I would like to take note of the Acts later, but we will do so in a moment. For example, the Minister and the Cabinet could have included the curfew in the covide laws, but each time there is a fragmentary new thing, such as: we have forgotten this and that. My question to the Minister is: why does it not succeed in achieving an integrated overall approach at a high quality level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u268	Thank you. Then we'll go back to this law. A brief answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u269	I've already given the answer. We are now dealing with this mutant in this pandemic fight. We've had a lot more things. It's a sawed-off image: the tanker in the fog. But in many ways it is, of course. If your Chamber says 'we find the legislation in all kinds of other areas too inadequate', I would like to discuss it with you once again. We certainly have time for this after 17 March, but that is a much wider debate. I say again that it is not the legislative lawyers. I'm gonna go back. The fight against pandemics means that we are sometimes faced with certain surprises. It would otherwise be discussed a little further in my story, but I would just like to say that in October or November it was certainly not a question of preparing such a legislative proposal. A motion was then adopted in the Lower House by the entire opposition and with the support of D66 that there should be no curfew. In response to that motion, I said in my letter of 13 November to the Chamber: we will comply with that motion, but I do not rule out the fact that we will have to come back to it again in the future. I did so again on 9 December. I actually wanted to go to the annoyance about the position of the First Chamber, because I understand this annoyance very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u270	You had a third question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u271	Finally. The minister was simply flagged back by the judge, because he used the wrong legal basis for this curfew. I read that verdict. That seems very realistic. Surely we cannot say here with a dry eye that it has all gone fantastic in terms of legislation? That's just demonstrably not the case. I don't hear an answer to my question about what goes wrong. It's not about blaming someone, it's just structural things go wrong. How are you going to improve this? That is why we will be tabling a motion on this in the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u272	Thank you. That was your third question in this interruption. Then I'm going to see Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u273	It's good to be able to stretch your legs for a while. My question to the Minister concerns the answers of 9 December, as in my own term and in an interruption. Can the Minister respond to the Prime Minister's replies of 2 December, in response to questions put by Mr Kuik? She asked: do you intend to activate the Wbbbg? The answer to that was three letters, namely: no. Then she asked in question five: if you would ever do so, how will you do so? The Prime Minister's reply was: 'Then we will inform the States-General', not to the House of Representatives, but to the States-General, 'and then we will be able to discuss this with the States-General in advance if we wish'. That's a little different. Can the Minister answer that? Then my second question to the Minister. The Minister says that the Twm is completely undressed by parliament. But the first version that went into consultation was based on a year of government by decree. The House of Representatives, among other things, amended the right of veto. So we have to see it in the right order. Then there's my third question. The Minister can take this into account in his speech, so that this does not all have to be one-on-one. The Minister says: "We have the Wbbbg, because it did not end up in the Twm. That was for political reasons. If you wanted it in then, it would have been voted away. No one wants a curfew; see also the motion." But we still have much stricter legislation. We still have a state of emergency, but we don't use it either. Then why didn't you go back? You didn't want the Twm with the curfew then, but we're doing this all the time. After all, there are two sides to Wbbbg: Parliament is being put at a distance and there must be immediate action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u274	So much for your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u275	So much for my questions. If the Minister takes them in his speech, it's fine, but then I'm sure they'll be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u276	You should have put them in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u277	His critical point, even in his first term, I take it upon myself. This also applies to the point made by some others about the involvement of the Upper House. The point of the "by decree" I have to ask, because I do not know exactly what that is about. Let me start with this, because this is an important point. The Prime Minister's reply to Question No 5 by Mrs Kuiken on 2 December reads as follows: "If, in the current crisis, the establishment of a curfew is deemed necessary and the power to do so must be activated by royal decree, all of which is the Wbbbg, the intention to do so will be communicated to the States-General, so that, if necessary, there can be an exchange of views between the Government and the States-General, unless the necessary urgency would oppose it'. I am aware that we said on that Wednesday that we should put this into effect. That took two or three days. At that time the urgent debate with the Lower House was also arranged. Your Members may look at it, but in any case I felt that we acted in parallel with the procedure that would have been followed in accordance with the rules of the Temporary Law on corona measures. But we thought it had to be done as a matter of urgency. And what's hot? I have to be very careful that I stay away from the judgment on that short-term action, because this judge says, for example, that you should have introduced it the same night. That was practically impossible, but that's not the point. We have just had that debate. Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that, given the urgency, it was no longer possible to hold a similar debate at that time. The necessary urgency resisted this. But we answered a question from Mr Wilders very clearly in the House of Representatives. I just looked it up. I have it in my phone. One second, if you don't mind, I'll read it to you. I have answered a question from Mr Wilders: I think that if the majority of this Chamber is the House of Representatives, then we do not want a curfew, that is why I am not going to sign the ministerial arrangement. Once again, I would like to say that to Mr Janssen, I realise that because of this urgency there was no possibility for us to have the debate here at the time. The Prime Minister had made an exception for this, but I do not want to rely entirely on it. In the meantime, of course, two debates have already been held with the House of Representatives and the Continuing Act has been adopted. I would just like to say that I fully understand Mr Janssen's critical point. That's how it went because of the emergency. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u278	By decree, that was that the government wanted to rule only afterhang for a year. That was the point at which the Chambers were acting, especially by the House of Representatives. On the other point, you say that the Prime Minister had replied, but there was no time. Has it been a consideration at all? Then you could have called it in. You could have said: I would normally have come to you, because the Prime Minister has promised to talk to the States-General, and therefore to your Chamber, about it; we are really not getting to it, but we are going to organise it in a different way. It didn't even occur to you or to the cabinet, seems to be the idea. Now the minister says the cabinet didn't have the time. But has it been a consideration? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u279	I do not think that consideration has been properly addressed in the urgency of the matter. I'm charging myself for that on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u280	Mr Janssen, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u281	But is that an occasional thing? Or is this in line with what the VWS Minister indicated in the Twm debate, namely that we do not see as a cabinet a role for the First Chamber in terms of the Twm and the implementation of the measures we take in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u282	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u283	Mr Janssen knows that, and I am really struggling with that myself. The Twm, as it has been adopted, assumes the so-called nahang only at the Lower House. Mr Janssen has tabled a motion; I was there myself. After that, I said once again that I think that we should find a mode for that in a good way. That is a mode that, if I may put it that way, three parties do not require the right word.. representatives at the table, namely the First Chamber, the Second Chamber and the Cabinet. So the question is, how are we going to solve that? The same applies to Mr Van Otterloo's amendment of 50PLUS yesterday. I did not say that I do not want to come and talk on behalf of the cabinet at all, because I think that is a good thing about the measures. The point is that we are sitting in a sort of catch 22 excuse for anglicism as to how we deliberately set up that law. I find that really annoying; let me just say that out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u284	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u285	We'll be back on that catch 22. But it starts with the rejection by the government in the Lower House of amendments and motions that call attention to the position of the Upper Chamber. If you really want it, and if you say that you are leaving the motion of censure Chamber because you agree that on such a serious subject as curfew, where 17 million people are restricted in their fundamental rights, the First Chamber also has a fixed role, then you do not deny the motion. So you could have given the motion judgment Chamber. Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u286	I said very clearly, both in the debate and in the dissuade, and the President of the Chamber nodded in understanding: now you are asking me something that you have deliberately wanted here in the Chamber. I find that there was my dissuade to ask a fundamental question which is now separate from the addition via curfew. I have said out loud that I think that we should also enter into this dialogue with the Upper House on this point. But I'm not much use to you alone. This must be changed in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u287	I have just heard the Minister say: I remain in my reply on matters relating to the interim ruling. If so, we have a problem, because this bill builds on that brief ruling. It is also referred to in the documents. The order for interim measures has been added to the documents. Many of the questions that have been asked in this regard refer to that interim ruling. That is precisely the judicial test, the legal test of what this bill is about. Think of whether it is all proportionate, whether it can all be within the framework of the Dutch rule of law and whether it is a legitimate restriction of fundamental rights. If the Minister says, "I'm staying away from that briefcase because it's still with the higher court," then we have a problem here. Is it then the case that the Minister is standing here debating with the hand brake and that he is not really able to provide our Chamber with a full answer when dealing with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u288	This whole argument by Mr Van Hattem builds on a misunderstanding, namely that this bill would build on the interim ruling. That's not true. I have, and perhaps then I will also answer immediately a qualification that Mr Backer gave, which talked about risky behaviour...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u289	I'm gonna take a look at the right. I would ask for some rest in the Chamber, otherwise it would be so difficult to follow everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u290	Mr. Chairman. We immediately said on Tuesday that we want to make an appeal against that statement, and that we do not need to talk about it, but that we are also going to work on this urgent act, precisely because we do not want to get into the risky situation of just going on in our own right. That's up to the judge, and that's next week. I have just indicated, at Mrs De Boer's request, that, as far as I am concerned, we are going to vote today, we are going to adopt the bill and we are going to implement it as soon as possible. Then that is the road we continue on according to the motion yesterday in the House of Representatives. That is not building on a summary ruling. In any case, if a judge in the short-term, a judge in the provision of services has the preliminary opinion that he has given there, then I think that we, as a cabinet, should be ready to make sure that we have a different basis right now. For this we have not only turned to the Council of State, but also adopted the opinion of the Council of State one-on-one. Once again, I am very grateful to the States-General for being able to do so yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u291	The Minister says that the bill does not as such build on the interim ruling, but this bill is the direct cause of this urgent proposal. If it hadn't been for that brief ruling, we wouldn't have been here today. Last Tuesday, the judge ruled not only that it was on the wrong basis, on the basis of the Wbbbg, but also that a number of factors were not sufficiently justified. We need to be able to weigh all these factors when dealing with this urgent legislative proposal, which, I repeat, is the result of that judgment. If the Minister now says that he should stay away from the short-term case, then I have to conclude that this is still being debated with a hand brake. Can the Minister give full answers to the questions raised here from the Chamber, even when it comes to the consideration given by the judge in the interim proceedings last Tuesday and which we can therefore also involve in the assessment of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u292	This is a legislative proposal in the context of outdoor living in relation to the fight against the corona pandemic. That's one. Two. I did not say for nothing that I would like to start by including you in our considerations of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. I think you have a right to know why the bill for curfew is needed first. We did. Next, in view of a number of critical notes that have been cracked about this, I think that I have to answer for why we were on the Wbbbg all along. But this is ultimately a self-contained bill. I have at Mrs De Boer's request, which I am not seeing anymore... Ah, Mrs. De Boer. At Mrs De Boer's request, I said very clearly: let us really move forward on this bill. Meanwhile, while I am speaking, the current ministerial arrangement is still running. But as far as I'm concerned, we're going through with this bill. I can't say it any clearer. The Court's considerations are mainly before the court and not before this court, I think. It's also part of the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u293	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u294	I kind of feel like the minister's in the middle of some kind of camel race at the carnival. At the moment when one bill seems more feasible than the other one, a little more is being gambled on the proposal to let that animal win. What is now before us is a law of which the Minister says: he is independent. Well, he's not that stubborn. Because if that court ruling had gone out differently last Tuesday, this bill would not have been passed. Then the Wbbbg would have just stayed in place. Would the Minister have said this week that there should be a different legislative proposal as a matter of urgency, based on the emergency law covid-19, which this refers to? If so, then we have another discussion, but that is not the case. It is precisely because of that judgment that this proposal has been tabled, as a matter of urgency, with that justification, with the references in the explanatory memorandum. So I can't help but think it's one-on-one linked. Now we have a situation where we are asking a lot of questions about that court ruling, because of the statement of reasons, which is insufficient, as the judge has indicated. Such factors are important for the proportionality of this bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u295	Mr. Van Hattem, this is too long an interruption. Would you like to ask a question? I'll give you a term later. You have entered a relatively long period of speaking time, so you will be able to continue to do so. After that, there's a deadline for the government. So we're still in the middle of a night. So perhaps you have another question, a third question in this interruption. I'd be happy to give you an opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I almost touched on my question and it might save a few minutes of speaking time in a moment. In essence, the question is: how can the Minister say that this is an independent legislative proposal if it is in all possible ways tied to last Tuesday's court ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u297	Thank you. Then I'll go see Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u298	I just wanted to get back to the point of the involvement of the First Chamber. I get it when the Minister says: when the curfew was introduced, we actively approached the Lower House in advance for a debate; we didn't do that to the Upper House because of urgency, well, because of whatever. We are going to talk next week about the procedures for determining the control of the Upper Chamber in the whole covid approach, but the next question remains with me. Organising a debate is something other than informing the Chamber about the measures. This also did not happen actively from the government back then. The Chamber also wrote a letter about this. There has been an answer to that, but I think it is important for the position of this Chamber that the Minister now clearly, on behalf of the Government, pledges that all measures taken in the covid approach, whether on the basis of the Twm or whatever law, will in any case be sent to the First Chamber for consultation, so that the First Chamber itself can take the initiative to request a debate on this matter if it so wishes. It starts with information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u299	Two things. Point one. I think I have already made it quite clear to Mr Janssen, but as far as I have not yet made it clear, I regret that we were not after what was it? On 22 January or thereafter, when that debate had taken place, your Chamber informed of this, also in the light of the reply of 2 December to which Mr Janssen referred. I want to say that out loud. Then I hope that is out of the way, because that should not remain between your Chamber and the cabinet as a pebble in a shoe. That is the other point of the measures and informing the House of everything is really the complicated part for me. I thought I'd be with you next Tuesday to discuss the extension of the covid law. I'm gonna say it out of my mind, Mr President-in-Office, or else we'll have to organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u300	Unless I change that agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u301	Yes! Who's gonna change? The...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u302	Unless I change that agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u303	I thought you said "unless the government changes," in the sense that I missed an app message from the Prime Minister. That would be sad. Yeah, then you're standing here talking and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u304	That would indeed be incredibly unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u305	...the driver's car isn't outside anymore! Anyway, this whole thing is on the side. With a cardboard box with your cactus and a picture of your dog. Mr President, I would like to return a moment. Look, I made it clear that I fully understand that point in this important pandemic fight, but at some point we did get a temporary law covid-19, which is in a certain way put together. I would like to say out loud that the cabinet is prepared to see how we, together, can get the first and second Chambers of Parliament, the cabinet, that information flow much better. I would also like to assure you that from now on we will certainly inform your Chamber immediately about this measure and this law. Let's start with that. At the moment, I find it a little difficult to make further commitments in the light of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, but you can see from my attitude how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u306	I must say that this answer surprises me very much, because I believe that measures covid-19 have already been included in the Temporary Law that we also need to be informed immediately. It is therefore a mystery to me what restraint should be in it. My question was precisely about measures which are not based on the temporary law, but it seems that the Minister should also be made clear that he must inform us of the measures taken under the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u307	Then I'm sorry. Then I was in the wrong assumption. Okay. Excuse me. I now understand what Mrs De Boer means, and I can promise you that. Sorry, my bad, I was just... Mr. Chairman. I have said that, as far as I am concerned, the looming error has come to your Chamber that we do not have to take the date as well after this Friday 22 January... Mr Otten rightly pointed out that it was pointed out in a note from your Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We have done so, but I have already said that I regret that. After that there was at least two debates with the House of Representatives about the curfew on the basis of the Wbbbg. There was also a written exchange of views on the continuing law. That law was passed by 118 votes in favour, as you know. At your room it will be scheduled for February 23rd. But I have already pointed out, I think, that there is a very good chance that this proposal is no longer on the table, because we are now discussing this emergency law and as a cabinet we would like to bring it into force as soon as possible, with your consent, of course first. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of questions that I haven't answered yet. Also for the sake of time I will go through it quickly. Mr Janssen rightly asked why the continuing law was not sent until the 26th. I explained that in the Chamber yesterday. Why is that much faster now? It is quite clear that all of us, the cabinet and also the OMT, the Council of State, the people who helped me to draw this up, are now completely oiled in the matter. It has indeed taken longer than we had hoped for before the continued law was in the Upper Chamber. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. I thought I could do that after a few days, but it took me longer. I say "I," because that responsibility ultimately rests with the cabinet. Anyway, that's what happened. In the end, fortunately, that did not prevent the Chamber from adopting that law. But as far as I'm concerned, next time, let's hope that it doesn't happen again in our lives. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the PVV had another question about the coupon book: isn't that being drawn too quickly? It says "boner shorts" in my text, but I think that "boner book" is meant. I'm going through some very special things in this pandemic fight, Mr. President. We didn't enter that curfew for nothing. It is a special measure and it must be maintained. We have also noted that its enforcement can be quite sharp and tight. I do not think there is any kind of excessive service-knocking way of maintaining it. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few questions about the legislative proposal before us. I shall begin with a number of technical questions put by Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u308	Very briefly. The Minister says that there has not been strict enforcement and so on, but I have given some examples of how good citizens were affected by such enforcement. The most important thing is that the judge made it clear that this bill was unlawful. Those citizens therefore received fines on an unlawful basis. Can we not then conclude that this should never have happened, that this injustice should simply be corrected by the Minister and that these citizens should get their money back because they did nothing wrong by spending the night out in the open?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u309	Let me put it this way. The curfew applies. This is legitimate on the basis of the Royal Decree of 22 January 2021, which I have already mentioned, and the subsequent ministerial arrangement. I did not say that it was not strictly enforced, but used the word'serve-knocking'. I did not say that there would be extreme or tighter enforcement. On the contrary. I have discussions every day with the police department and not every day, but regularly with a number of mayors of major cities and the chairman of the Hubert Bruls Security Council. Our image is that these exceptions are simply working well. I've been visiting eight police forces in the two weeks since and after the riots. My view is that, as is often the case in the Netherlands, this is really maintained in a good, decent, reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u310	Then I will come back to the one question I asked in the first term. It was said at the start of the curfew that it is used to prevent excesses. Instead of preventing excesses, there was already a police trap on the A2 on the first best night. Can the Minister indicate how this relates to the prevention of excesses and how good citizens could have been fined, when they were absolutely not excesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u311	I don't know if they were excesses. It is a pandemic response measure. As always, it is taken seriously. You know that it is up to the local authorities, the local triangles to determine whether and, if so, how to maintain et cetera. I don't know which part of the A2 this was, but that must have been a part of what a local authority was responsible for. I understand very well that there have been sharp checks on a number of points in traffic during the first few days. I took my own employer's statement a few times after 9:00 p.m. on the highway and the streets in my hometown after I got back from the police. It was extinct then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u312	This still means that this measure will not be used for excesses. If at one time there was a very large group on the street that caused problems, I can still imagine that this measure was put into effect. But that has not been the case. These were citizens who were in their cars on one of the main highways of the Netherlands, the A2, in this case at De Lucht-Oost near Bruchem, under Zaltbommel. They were picked off the road just one minute after 9:00 p.m. to be checked immediately. Instantly very rigid has been maintained. How is it that a farmer on his own country is plowing, working...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u313	Mr. Van Hattem, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u314	How can it be that people who simply act as a good citizen in this society, on the basis of a law that has been declared illegal by the judge, are still pursuing enforcement in this way, whereas the measure would only have been intended for excesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u315	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u316	There is no regulation that has been declared illegal. That's one. Two. Mr Van Hattem refers to individual cases. As you know, I am not going to go into that as Minister of Justice and Security. That's not up to me. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer had a question on the horizon and asked if there was a new basis for extending the curfew. Article 58c, paragraph 7, is determined by the Van Dam/Groothuizen amendment that a ministerial arrangement established under the new legal section expires no later than three weeks after its entry into force. That amendment has been given Chamber's judgment, so we support it. Let's at least make that clear. The explanation is clear. I quote: 'The provisions of this amendment will not relate to the existing civil authority established under the Extraordinary Law, 'to hang' ministerial arrangement on which the present curfew is based, but to a possible successor to this arrangement'. That is what the amendment says. In concrete terms, there is an existing curfew until the early morning of 3 March. It's based on the Wbbg right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u317	It's getting harder and harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u318	No, chairman, the donkey bridge is: we can work it out. Those are the same syllables: Wbbbg. It is being hung, I say to Mr Backer, if this bill becomes the new law. This will then be put on the table, and so you will be given the same provision in Article 2 of the draft law that the current regime would apply until 3 March for that short period. I hope I've explained it clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u319	Minister, would you please correct your microphone one more time, because it's dropping further and further down. He is now almost focused on Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u320	That is something we must avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u321	Thank you for this answer to Mr Backer's question, but also to mine. Do I understand correctly that the amendment will enter into force on 3 March and that there will be a three-week period? And that after those three weeks the measure lapses automatically, unless it is renewed for that purpose? Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u322	The amendment will enter into force immediately, but it does not concern the current regime. It ends on 3 March, so that would mean that if I were to say it correctly, we would have to do the follow-up to a subsequent arrangement on 23 February. If you can follow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u323	Yes. So the amendment has its actual effect around 23 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u324	The legal effect is ex nunc, at least by date of introduction. The actual effect, if there is an extension, is on 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u325	When lawyers talk about "working," it is always a legal function. I don't quite understand the actual effect. I take it that the text of the amendment and the explanatory statement are not entirely in line with that. In fact, I said something about that which the Minister will come back to later. However you turn it or turn it around, if we adopt this law tonight, if the moped does it to the Official Journal and the law is published, then under Article 2, the curfew currently in force is a decision that is fictitiously adopted on the basis of the law that we have adopted today. That follows from Article 2 of the law. Next, Article 58c, paragraph 7, states that you may not adopt a scheme for more than three weeks, so that it will automatically expire after three weeks. That too is a legal term. I can imagine that a lawyer would point out that the present curfew is now based on this law and that this law states that a decision based on this law expires after three weeks. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u326	If Mr Nicolaï does not point that out to me, then I would like to come back to that in the second term, because I would like to have a little bit of technical research on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u327	I would have liked to suggest this myself, because I think it is important that it be sorted out as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u328	Yes. That was Mr Backer's question. Mr Recourt also had that question. Mrs. Prins asked if the cabinet can guarantee that this law, this route, will stand. Yes. Well, guarantee... Here I also owe an answer to the question of how the Council of State gave its opinion on this matter. As I explained yesterday in the Lower House, the Council of State did not say that the Wbbbg would not be a good basis. That is contrary to what has been suggested by a few in the public debate, so to speak. It was said at the Council of State that you had a debate with the House of Representatives and you still have to explain that. For example, they made a few points in the first opinion, which I thought was 1 February. At that time, on Tuesday evening, we found that, in order not to end up in risky behaviour, we had to at least ensure that we had an emergency law on another basis. That was in case the Supreme Court also decided: it cannot do so on the grounds of etc. We then presented to the Council of State a concept based on its own specific law. Why? I'm getting back on it. As a cabinet, we have always felt that this is an even more serious measure, also in view of the discussion last autumn on the Temporary Law measures, and that it had to be in its own specific law. That was with the idea of a similar system of ministerial arrangements, which would also last three weeks. The Council of State then advised us on Wednesday morning. Many thanks to the board that that was so fast. Now, I'm going to say something a little simple. The Council has said: do it now on those Temporary Law measures. Period. We immediately did the same thing. I assume that this basis is now really a basis on which everyone agrees in any case. That is quite apart from the fact that we believe that the Wbbbg was also a right basis. But we do not need to talk about this today. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Prins also asked if there was a prognosis of the curfew's term. The curfew has now been extended until March 3 at 04.30 a.m. It's a tough move. I have already indicated that we simply need to see how developments are going at the moment. The Prime Minister expressed his concern yesterday in the Lower House about developments. But I cannot anticipate how that will develop now. Mr. Chairman. The questions on the technique part of the law I've dealt with. Mr Nicolaï said that the proposed new section F and the explanatory texts were not entirely in line. There is now no intention to use the proposed legal basis for anything other than a curfew. We have also repeatedly said that it is all far-reaching, and more so. It could be something else in theory. Mr Nicolaï suggested: could it be a day clock? But of course there is the point of the afterhang. The government is clearly only concerned with the possibility of setting up a curfew within the framework, which is very limited, of the COOVID-19 pandemic. That's what I'm saying for the people who watch and listen. It is all very clearly limited to that. The explanatory statement says the following. I'll give you some text exegesis. As under the Wbbbg it becomes possible to limit outdoor stays under ministerial regulations. That's on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum. On page 8 it says: the words "in the open air" mean what they mean in Article 8 (1) Wbbbg. That is the same material as in Article 8 of the Wbbbg. When that law came into being, concepts were not defined. The aim was to join the substantive predecessor in 1952. This is what the 1949 explanatory statement says: this regulates curfew and similar restrictions. So that's not just the curfew. See page 9 of these notes. I would like to say once again with great emphasis that, as we do it this way, with the seven-day follow-up to the House of Representatives, everything can always be dealt with there first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u329	I understood from the Minister's speech that the words 'considerable' and'reckless' had given him a moment's thought, that he was particularly'reckless' in his throat and that he therefore gave an extremely detailed and detailed look back. This problem always feels a bit like the accident board that looks back: the skater has been rescued, but what happened? Then you're gonna rationalize and then it all seems to have made sense. But I am thinking of one point: the Minister has indeed been very thoughtful, but he has at a good time come to the conclusion that there was simply no majority in the House of Representatives. That's what he's implying. Well, he implies it: there was a lot of talk about that curfew, but there was no majority for it, so when the moment came acutely, I chose the Wbbbg. At that point, it was risky. All right, we shouldn't fall into words recklessly, but it was risky, because that law wasn't made for that. I think everything shows that we're on a good route now. But I would be sorry to hear in the Minister's analysis that the understanding of what was going on at the time actually prevented him from submitting the question to the Chamber once again and fully in the situation at that time. There was actually an old situation from November, and then it was thought: well, we shouldn't do that. That is what I am listening to in the Minister's explanation. And if I look back at that, I think that could have been different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u330	This is what I'm fighting. That is why I have been fully responsible for this. I find that "what was the expression"? It is not'reckless' to do justice to the way in which we have dealt with this as a cabinet. Mr Backer is going to miss out on the following. I have just paraphrased it in detail and even quoted it from the answer given to Parliament's questions. I can get a lot more. I will not do that, but it is always clear that the cabinet on the one hand says 'the measure is not proportionate'. I have also put that out loud a few times myself........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That has not been said to pass Parliament, but because there is a law that prescribes what should happen to us if you want to restrict people in their movement from home. There's a law. We can say to each other afterwards: gee, shouldn't you have come up with another base right away? But there are two things I do not agree with. One. We said, "Okay, there's urgency." And we did indeed have that debate with the Chamber within that urgency, because it had to be organized in those few days. That has also been the subject of what I have just quoted: if the majority of your Chamber thinks that we should not do so, then we really should not do so. Well, I've already spoken out the sadness about not informing the First Chamber immediately. However, the second point is that we did have the urgency. That is what we stand for as a cabinet in order to be able to introduce it in the foreseeable future. Now it seems to the people that this can be done in two or three days with the emergency law, but I have just explained that this is just a very complicated matter. Now all the parties involved are much more involved in what it is about, but at first it took a lot more time to put it all together. And just then you would have lost that urgency, which we did not consider justified in the context of the fight against pandemics. However, I do understand some of the criticisms made by Mr Janssen and also by Mr Backer. On one point, I really do say that that is entirely right. But the qualification about reckless or looking back is not correct, because we can simply read back in the documents how we as a cabinet struggled with it. May I say one more thing, Mr. Chairman? Somewhere in the pieces something about that dike break came along. But the point is, of course, that if Mr Backer and I had been at that dike together, we would have seen, in the context of the pandemic, wash the water and see the water fall again. At what point do you say: now something really goes wrong? Then you must be able to intervene quickly. That, I admit, is complicated for us as a cabinet, but also for everyone in society, I think. We've talked enough about that. That doesn't always go well. I have already said that to Mr Janssen. We should have sent a letter directly to the Upper House on Monday, or I don't know what day it was. That's a point I've said enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u331	Let's close this point. It was an emergency. It was urgent. It is a pity that the cabinet now has to debate its aftermath for two full days. Anyway, let's leave it at that. I understand what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u332	I would honestly admit that the enormous energy that goes into this by the whole of the States-General is annoying. That does come from... I called it good paternity yesterday, but that was not seen by everyone as a modern term. If I say stewardship, I don't appreciate it. If there is a very critical judgment of a judge, even if that is for the time being, I think that, given the importance of combating the pandemic, I should put aside my own legal or other right and at least take care of it, with a great deal of thanks for the cooperation and cooperation of everyone, that we still have a basis on which everyone agrees that it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u333	Mr. Backer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u334	Then the merit of today's debate is that the Minister does this more generously today, when he found it difficult yesterday. I'm talking about that own right. It's an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u335	Mr. Backer and I know each other. I appreciate him noticing this with me. But Mr Backer also understands, he is one of the most experienced lawyers in the political domain, that yesterday, the day before the hearing of that appeal, it was a little more difficult for the Prime Minister and me. But we also said back then that we see this emergency law with certainty as a beacon, and so on. But I cannot deny that my generosity has grown in that respect since then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u336	Thank you. Before I give Mr Nicolaï the floor, let me look at the Minister: how far have you come with the answer? 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u337	I still have a few things to say about the pandemic fight, but I can get through it very quickly. This is about what a number of Members have rightly asked: what are we going to do in the meantime? If you don't mind me putting it under that heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u338	Then I suggest we let the Minister finish his term first. Let's see who else wants to interrupt. I'm sure you'll get the chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u339	Mr. Chairman. Some of your members have rightly asked: how can we take a broader view of the various social impacts? There is a lot of RIVM itself, of the behavioral unit, that I would like to stress. Then there's the Social and Cultural Planning Office. Mr Putters is a permanent member of the COVID-19 Ministerial Committee. In addition, there is the National Core Team Crisis Communication, but also the national police. I'll meet you every week on Monday with the Security Council, but also with others and other specialist departments. There is a very broad view. Until July, there was the crisis structure. A few say that until then we have made very small decisions. This was also discussed yesterday in the House of Representatives. But we have just said since July: we are leaving this crisis structure, because, of course, we need to see how things are going. This is taking so long; we really need to involve everyone and everything. Anyway, I already pointed out the accompanying policy. You can see, for example, the disclosure of the incidental debt instrument which is called occasional? In the case of education, the government is really looking at the side effects of the pandemic and also the fight against pandemics in society as much as possible. GroenLinks, Mrs Den Boer, asked if I could indicate whether there are sectors working on plans. Those plans are indeed being worked on in a variety of ways. You can see that, for example, at the point of field labs. We are also currently looking at whether there would be any intermediate steps to make certain things possible. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Den Boer's question on secondary and higher education. That is a very important priority at the moment. Let's be clear about that. It is not for nothing that we have said before that primary education and childcare should be the first to be open. That's what happened. We really do have, how do I put it, what... Well, there's definitely a small risk side to that, but we thought that should really be done socially, because of the damage and other things. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of scaling up and down the road map. I would really like to suggest that this should be explained in more detail in a letter to your Chamber, because that is a matter that would really take a lot of time to go into it very deeply. Mr President, you are not seeing that right now, but I think I saw Mr Recourt nodding. The question was his. If that can be done in a letter, it seems a lot more constructive, because then we can explain that and detail. Mr. Chairman. The OMT should be widened with a socio-economic team, Mr Backer indicated. The complicated thing is that the OMT of course has a legal basis in the Public Health Act. I fully agree with Mr Backer that we need to keep the broad societal test very sharp. But sometimes the image is created that we only have to be advised by........................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is a bit different from the fact that the Outbreak Management Team is much broader in terms of expertise. As I said, very broad structural advice is being sought. This can also be seen when you include the Catshuis pieces of, for example, 8 February last. Mr. Chairman. It may not be very imaginable for you, but I've really run out of my first term, so so far. I hope I didn't leave any questions unanswered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u340	We are going to notice that now, because Mrs Bikker is coming forward. That means that one question is still unanswered. Of course, I shall also give the floor to Mr Nicolaï. If Mr Nicolaï and Mrs Bikker decide, after internal consultation, that Mr Nicolaï will be the first to intervene, I will, of course, allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u341	This is about the point that there is actually no limit to evening hours. I hear the Minister say that we do not really intend to do so, and there is also a follow-up. But no matter how you turn or turn it, as the wording is now in the law, the Minister is given a power to limit the outdoors for 24 hours, so to speak. It's a jurisdiction. Whether you are going to make political use of that is another question, but it is a legal competence. If we look at the draft law itself and also at the explanatory statement, that is particularly important for paragraph 5 on the implications for fundamental rights and human rights....................................................................................................................................................................................... For if it should be seen that it could also be used for longer than a curfew, then there should have been a completely different consideration in the explanatory statement. This means that I would like to ask the Minister if he could make a novella which will at least ensure that that provision still includes 'in the evening hours'. For then it is clear that this power is limited to that. That's my question. This means that I would like to ask the Minister whether he could make a novelle to ensure that that provision still includes 'in the evening hours'. Then there is no doubt that this power is limited to that. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u342	Mr. Chairman. Not only did I quote from the explanatory memorandum, but I also referred to the Wbbbg and its predecessor in law. I have thus explained that it is about limiting outdoor stays. This bill is not limited to the evening hours. The cabinet would like to say, once again, that it is far from intended to impose 24-hour restrictions, as Mr Nicolaï says. We have really opted for complete parallelion, because it is important for the fight against the pandemic to do this well now in a legislative process, so as to regulate this one-on-one. For example, the ministerial arrangement to actually implement it states that it would continue on the same basis on 3 March, just as hypothetically that it is from 9 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. So he gets that so-called afterhang, which goes to the House of Representatives, which has seven days to debate it if necessary. When those times would no longer be 9:00 p.m. until 04:30 p.m., we know that we are immediately at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u343	Thank you. Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u344	Perhaps not in conclusion, with your permission, because this is a very important matter, which really concerns the fundamental rights of society. The introduction to this bill explicitly states: "This bill therefore provides a separate legal basis for the establishment of a curfew." If you look at the impact on fundamental rights and human rights.................................................................. A balance has therefore been made as to the extent to which curfew infringes our fundamental rights. No other consideration has been made. Let me put it this way: when the Minister says that there are riots or pleasures or moped youth, or I know what, and that we are going to ban outdoors on Saturdays and Sunday afternoons, then that authority has been granted. The question to the Minister is not whether the government intends to do so. The question is: what is the scope and what is the power given here? Then I hear the Minister say that the power given is actually for 24 hours. I think that we, as the First Chamber, should be equally supportive of what has been said in the explanatory statement about the violation of fundamental rights. I would ask my fellow senators to pay full attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u345	This can, of course, be discussed at length during the second period. Perhaps for now a brief answer from the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u346	It's still the same. We have taken over the text one-on-one from what is in the Wbbbg, in Article 8 (3) there are no secrets about it. Of course, this has gone to the Council of State for advice. The House of Representatives adopted the same approach. Next is the guarantee that the ministerial arrangement will indicate what you are going to do under this law. Let's just say it's gonna be from 8:00 in the evening until 6:00 in the morning. Then it is immediately up to Parliament to say: wait a minute, we find something of that. That can then put a line through the afterhang. That is exactly how it is intended and how it is arranged in parallel with all other measures of the Temporary Law covid; let us be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u347	Finally, Mr Nicolaï, and I really refer you to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u348	I hear the Minister say that it is then up to Parliament to agree or not to agree. That's not how it's arranged. It's only up to the House of Representatives to agree. The First Chamber is excluded from that. That's one. The second question is: was it the Second Chamber and is it clear to the First Chamber that they are here granting such a broad power to the Minister while it is always about the introduction of the curfew? That's essential, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u349	The introduction of curfew is rightly the effect now for the pandemic. There is no indication at this time that that will be a clock that, as in France, will go in at 6 p.m. or something like that. I'll get back to you. This law lays down general jurisdiction; that is the starting point. The ministerial regulation fills that in and there is always that parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u350	At the end of his extensive speech, the Minister commented on the broad consideration of the OMT opinion alone. Both my group and colleagues, Mr Backer and Mr Recourt, and in my view even more colleagues, asked for this. I'd like to ask the Minister about this. The Minister has indicated with whom he is all speaking for his consideration. I see all kinds of very good support packages, which my party wholeheartedly supports, especially in those situations where wrinkles have arisen and where people are struggling. Yesterday we saw the 100th OMT opinion; a special moment, although not happy. At the same time, I miss clarity with all the other factors that need to be weighed. The Minister then refers to the Catshuis stubs. I look at them for a while but they are not comparable to such an OMT advice. I would ask the Minister to be a little less descriptive about what is already happening and a little more cognisant with a Chamber that wants to see exactly how these other interests are weighed. The OMT advice is really good on the one hand, but the other also plays, like the parents with a disabled child who would like to cycle in the evening. What does that mean? I would very much like the Minister to be more involved in these matters than just describing what is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u351	We need to get it all straightened out for a while. The Outbreak Management Team is a legal fact. The cabinet should weigh heavily the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. In addition, from the beginning of the pandemic campaign, the cabinet also looked at other interests, financial and economic and social, and said that they should also be taken into account. There are interests in this, let me say, which are less easy to identify empirically. In the documents, the Social Cultural Planning Bureau and other institutions provide graphs for this too, if I say it bluntly, because that sounds so bad when it comes to social affairs. In this respect, therefore, concrete data are also provided. And so, in the debate that we had in the Cabinet in January every Sunday in the Catshuis, we said: in the light of the fact that, despite the very strict lockdown, we still have the infectious English variant, we believe that we should open up primary education and childcare again. All kinds of considerations have been made and all kinds of conditions have been laid down. That's a tricky weighing, but we made it anyway. If you look at the statistics of RIVM, you will see that there is a complete modelling of it. I am always saying from my head page 27, because that was always the page in the presentation of 44 pages that we went through every Sunday what would happen if the current lockdown was maintained, what would happen if primary education and childcare were opened, and what would happen if curfew was set. It was all modelled. At that time, however, we opted for the model whereby primary education and childcare could be opened up, because we found this to be a social consideration in view of the other opinions that were there, knowing that this might make the development of the figures somewhat less favourable. That is an example of what this weighting is like. We take them seriously with each other, too. Of course, there are regular pleas, even from not the least people, to also look closely at the interests of vulnerable groups. That is also what we are focusing on. We do not focus purely on those apples, but also on what we see in practice. I haven't said much about it. I would like to save everyone in this first term. We have set up a very comprehensive accompanying social policy to see if we can keep up with or help those groups in this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u352	As I said earlier, I appreciate the commitment of the cabinet in places where people are having a hard time. I also appreciate, for example, the consideration of the opening-up of schools. That's not my point either. My point is, for example, with this legislative proposal, but also with all the measures that restrict fundamental rights and we in the Chamber have to consider how these fundamental rights relate to each other, namely, on the one hand, the promotion of public health and, on the other hand, the restriction. The Council of State says: "It needs to be looked at more broadly. It should be reported more broadly than in the OMT opinions only." When I look at the documents, I keep seeing that the other arguments are more loose, or become a separate aid package, while I want to be able to make this broader consideration more clear when it comes to restricting fundamental rights. That's my point. That is where I ask the Minister to take a step more. I really appreciate this because that is important for what is happening for people who are in the wrinkle zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u353	That's why I'm starting it. I don't have to repeat it entirely. The advice given by the OMT is prescribed by law. For example, we still have a number of things, such as advice from the Health Council when it comes to vaccination and the like. That's data. Then we still have to look in the balance of interests to see if there are certain other interests. I'm going to give you another example. For example, the arrangement of curfew leads to a number of exceptions. You may assume from me that I have had a good conversation with colleague Van Engelshoven that she can confirm about the exams of the students. That's partly an empirical fact. I would like to stress here that I think we should be careful not to put social data and factors in the same pattern as the OMT. We have to consider them very carefully. Mrs Bikker can call me every Monday and say: show me what you've done in the Cat House in those areas. Young people, for example, are having a really hard time. We hear some very nasty stories about that from time to time. I am so in it: we should not catch that too much in fixed strategies and statistics. We must take this into account, take it into account in decision-making and do a lot about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u354	In any case, we note a commitment that Mrs Bikker can call every Monday. That commitment will also be entered in the register.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u355	That's gonna be fun. At the same time, of course, this is not the purpose of my question, because it must be transparent for everyone. It's in the next one. I think I can use that to give the Minister a hand on his way. I'm tasting his fear of having to deliver all sorts of new graphics. That's not my question. Yesterday, however, the commitment was made to make that broad consideration more known to the Chamber. I have included the motion by Mr Segers, from the other side, and this motion was adopted unanimously in April 2020 - to set up an Impact Management Team, an IMT, to weigh the other side. I understand very well that there is a difference in the legal position. The Minister explained that to me twice, so now I totally get it. Nevertheless, I would really like the Minister to take a step towards this Chamber precisely in the light of that commitment, such as: yes, on that point I can just give you a broader and firmer information, so that we can better weigh this up if there is a new restriction of fundamental rights. Especially now that we know that we are going to encounter these dilemmas for a very long time, as the crisis is taking longer and given the vaccinations and the repetition of vaccinations that may be necessary. Perhaps even this minister's successor will encounter these dilemmas, although I hope, of course, that I will be able to call this minister on Monday for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u356	Thank you. Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u357	I would like to start by saying that Mrs Bikker can continue to call me after the 2021 elections, if there is a successor in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u358	That's a new commitment. It's gonna be in the register!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u359	That is an important point. Another thing is... I'm gonna do it a little more numerically. The Catshouse transfers generally last four or five hours. The review of the OMT data and the figures for combating the pandemic usually took place in about 45 minutes. Then we're through. We're getting pretty good at it by now, I'll say. It is precisely about weighing up the points that Mrs Bikker is talking about. The same goes for what was discussed last summer about the Impact Management Team. This is a matter of substance, but I do notice that Mrs Bikker has a point to make about the fact that, as a cabinet, we may have to promote it much more than we do now. That's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u360	I see Mrs. Bikker nodding. She's walking back and forth now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u361	That is a bit too cheerful thought, although I always try to count my blessings. With a minister who cares, no step has yet been taken to make it easier for me and for the Chamber to understand. Right there's my point. I would like to give the Minister every opportunity to think about a pleasant form for it. He can come back to it in a letter, if he finds it too exciting right now and thinks that he might promise something that his colleagues later think: what have you done now? Of course, the cabinet wants to speak with one voice, but here's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u362	I propose that we keep that for the next two deadlines. We will soon be halfway through today's debate. We can, of course, come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u363	We will certainly come back to it with one devotional mouth. Mrs. Bikker and I are really on the same page. I'll make sure the cabinet gets back to it in the information field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u364	I actually intended to start in the second period, but now that the point has been raised by Mrs Bikker...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u365	That was a good intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u366	Yeah, but while we're at it, hopefully it'll save us some time. In my first term, I referred to the Prime Minister's commitment yesterday to broaden the balance. He said that the adverse effects of the measures were also being looked at and made clearer. I am a little surprised that the Minister is now saying that the cabinet is already doing very well. No, yesterday was promised that things should get better. I trust that commitment will stand. It's two things. It's about making it clear which considerations the cabinet makes, because the Catshuis consultation is very global when it comes to other interests. I think it's also about how you're going to organise that other input. How's that organized? The OMT and the minister say it's legal. Other things are with the Health Council. I read that Kim Putters regularly slides in. He is undoubtedly saying very sensible things, but it is not transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u367	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u368	The question is: how is the government going to organise the entry of this other information in such a way that the balance can be made right and made clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u369	That consideration is well made, but Mrs Bikker and Mrs De Boer want that to be more insightful. I said we'd meet again at the Catshuis on Sunday. Indeed, the Prime Minister said yesterday that we need to make it clearer. I repeat that here. I will also ensure that the cabinet returns to you soon with a good form for that insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u370	One comment on that. The Minister says it's done well. We cannot, of course, judge that until it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u371	Yes and no. I mentioned the 8 billion for education, but I also mentioned the opening up of primary education and childcare. In my opinion, I thought Mrs Bikker and I were in agreement on this. We really see that the cabinet that weighs the effects in its decision-making and sometimes says: we are not implementing this measure, because we think that this should continue. We must also take responsibility for this, let us be clear. But I think the point is right that we need to explain better how we get from a to b. That's what the Prime Minister said yesterday. That's what we're gonna do. I'm gonna figure out, maybe in the second term or something, exactly how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u372	Thank you. We have come to the end of the government's first term. As has been the case before, in view of the course of the sitting, I shall now suspend dinner for 45 minutes. After the dinner break we continue with the re- and rejoinder. Following the conclusion of the debate, I will suspend the sitting briefly for group discussions, after which the roll-call vote on the legislative proposal and, if necessary, one or more motions will take place. As has been the case before, it is now scheduled for 9 p.m. or as much later as the debate and suspension are over. In connection with the roll-call vote, all Members received an e-mail on this subject. The roll-call votes will take place at 9 p.m. or as much later as the debate is finished and the suspension will be completed before the group meeting. Perhaps in abundance, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are preparing curfew forms for your trip home. Of course, it would be a shame if that were to go wrong. The formulas are available in the Noenzaal, in the mailroom, in the wardrobe of the Knight's Room and at the messengers. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u373	We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I welcome the commitment made by the Minister in response to my order proposal. I have noted that the Minister has indicated that he will carry out the motion of the House of Representatives in order to suspend the operation of Article 8 (1) and (3) of the Wbbg if this law enters into force. And he has also promised to bring into force the law that we are discussing today, if it is adopted, immediately after the votes today or tomorrow morning. I therefore assume that next Tuesday, when the law is passed, we will not have to debate Articles 8 (1) and 8 (3) of the Wbbg. We have just had an interrupting debate on it and I have heard the Minister say that the expected effects of the measures are taken into account and form a basis for the exceptions. That is very good to hear, but the answer to the question of which information is based on this broad consideration remains vague. The Minister keeps mentioning the Catshuispieces. We have looked at them and, as far as public documents are concerned, these documents are really inadequate as a wide-ranging consideration of all relevant interests. The Minister mentions the opinions of the SCP, but as far as we can see, these are not always opinions based on models and forecasts of the social and cultural effects of the pandemic and measures. Just say: opinions that are as extensive as the OMT opinions. As far as we are concerned, the provision of oral input is not enough. The clarity needs to be improved, and we've already talked about that. I have been thinking about what is my question to the Minister and how we can make it even clearer. Mrs Bikker mentioned that in April the Segers motion was adopted in the House of Representatives, a motion that asks for an IMT to be set up next to the OMT, at least in order to examine that possibility. It's about an Impact Management Team. I think that's still a very good idea. I don't know what the government did with that motion, but I don't think that IMT came. Actually, my question is: would the Minister undertake today to indicate in the shortest possible time, say within two weeks, how the Segers motion on the Impact Management Team, which has been adopted in the House of Representatives, will be implemented? Once again, this broader weighting of interests is important for us in this measure, but also for all other covid measures. I welcome the commitment that there will be a letter on how to make better use of the possibility of imposing a quarantine obligation. I very much hope that this letter will also address the possibilities of making greater use of the current legislation, not only in the case of people already infected and contagious, but also in the case of any new legislation. My question is whether the Minister can attach a date to this commitment. The Minister spoke very briefly about the long-term perspective requested by my group and the plans to allow different sectors to function while the coronavirus remains present to a greater or lesser extent, starting with secondary and higher education. I would ask the Minister, in the letter promised to Mr Recourt on scaling up and down, to go into the plans for the operation of the various sectors. These were my second-term questions. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u375	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u376	Mr President, thank you. Yes, the Wbbbg; many people have already broken their tongues about it today. What really helped me is to breathe between the W and the first B. Then you get a slightly different rhythm: W... bbbg. Maybe it'll help. Mr. Chairman. I apologise in advance to the Minister of Justice and Security for having addressed him several times in my first term as Minister of Security and Justice. Fortunately, we have put that time behind us. Mr. Chairman. The attitude of the cabinet towards the First Chamber. I had to think back to my military service, related to corona: corona underneath we can only get together. I'm still from the time you were allowed to serve your military service. The first thing you learned there was that you were doing something with a group of people and you weren't leaving anyone behind, because at some point you were going to need them very much. That moment you could not foresee at that time and it might seem a burden, but at a later point it was very useful to get the matter through. That's what I was thinking when we were talking about the position of the Supreme Court. I tried some inconvenience with the Minister when we looked back at the cabinet's attitude towards the First Chamber in this whole corona crisis, but that's with this minister. I referred in my speech and in my speech to the fact that I still have the debate in mind with the VWS Minister, who said: 'The cabinet sees no role for the First Chamber'. Literally quote. The VWS Minister also said: I am not going to do two debates. If that is the attitude, then we are getting a little out of that "we" and that togetherness to fight the crisis together. I thought I'd try something with this minister of discomfort about the attitude in that it could be different, but we'll see on Tuesday if that's shared more widely by the rest of the cabinet. Having said that, I still want to see what that means, because when I get the question at home "when are you gonna bring flowers again?', Then I know I'm late. So it also requires some sort of "together," reciprocity and proactive action from the cabinet towards this Chamber. My very specific question to the Minister is therefore: when it was thought about using the Wbbbg, was it also considered what it would mean to put Parliament at a distance? 'Cause you're gonna be pulling things at you. Has it only been assessed on the basis of the question of how best to combat the crisis? Or is it also taken into account that it is democratically difficult for you to take over powers from Parliament? Let us look at the progress of the legislative proposal that we are going to deal with next week and perhaps not. The question to the Minister is whether the Prime Minister will also strike a KB to withdraw the Wbbbg, but that is a very specific question; then we will know it for the agenda Tuesday. It is time to look with this minister: is that also taken into account? 'Cause that means something. This Wbbbg has two sides: the Parliament must act at a distance and quickly. As far as attitude is concerned, I refer once again to the attempt yesterday in the Lower House to give the Upper House a little more position, especially in the case of a serious measure such as curfew. That measure is so heavy that the Minister even said: that is what the Temporary Law measures covid-19 are actually too light for; I would rather put in a heavier law. By such a heavier law you actually need a heavier power for the parliament, so Second and First Chambers, as arranged with the Wbbbg, although with some delay. All things considered, if we in the Chamber had not taken the initiative to plan a debate on 23 February and if the curfew had been withdrawn and ended on 2 March, we would not have discussed it at all as the First Chamber after five or six weeks. Let us follow that timetable: if we had not entered it ourselves, I do not think it would have been on the agenda next week. This also requires the reciprocity of the cabinet, which says: we would like to talk to you about it; can you please plan it for us? That is not what a VWS Minister is asking. I will only mention it a few times, which says: if you want me to come, you should ask me. I do not think that is quite the attitude. Mr. Chairman. So I wonder if this will materialize. In between during the suspensions I have read some of the answers from the written round about the execution, which is called the "motie-Janssen'. That motion, of course, is simply about the position of the First Chamber. A majority has said so, but that motion happens to have my name on it, well, not quite coincidentally. In any case, it is a question of a majority of the First Chamber expressing that opinion. And the thrust of that letter is that a careful legislative process to amend something to carry out that motion would take about 23 weeks. When I see how we stand here today, it's a matter of "do you want it as a cabinet, or don't you want it?'. But the 23-week legislative process that has been outlined seems to me to be very broad. If, as a commitment, an option is requested that does not require a legislative amendment, then I would like to think about it. I would like to put that to my fellow petitioners, but that is not only the story we have had in the debate, such as 'yes, we will make it very difficult'. The Minister just read out the undertaking to Mr Wilders in the Lower House. If I translate it into the implementation of my motion, I will only change two words and then paraphrase the Minister's words: I think that if the majority of this Chamber says 'we do not want an extension', the cabinet will not take that decision. It was after a few interruptions and a few questions, but then the Minister came up with this wording. Would the Minister take that with us next Tuesday when we talk about this? Mr. Chairman. One question has not been answered, namely my question to take the Temporary Law measures covid-19 as the preferred basis from now on. This includes the fact that if the Minister wishes to take a measure which is not based on that Twm, he will inform us in good time, so that we also know what its consequences are. This contributes to legal predictability, not only for us, but also for the outside world. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the final answer. After consultation with my group, I will give an explanation of vote as to what the conclusion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u377	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Thank you to all his colleagues who have contributed to this. I've begun to express my discomfort. That inconvenience remains. I'm gonna end up with that in my second term. But discomfort is no longer helping, because the time to make choices is beginning to come, even for my group. I will give you an insight into the lines along which we will decide. That is, of course, after we have first waited for the Minister's answers in the second term. First of all, my appreciation for the minister's mea culpa about involving the First Chamber in the introduction of the curfew and for the promise that all information that goes to the Second Chamber will also go to the First Chamber. At least we'll be on the same page at the information level. The underlying question is, of course, what position does the First Chamber want in relation to substantial restrictions on fundamental rights? In my group's view, this role should be greater. We're gonna talk about that Tuesday. We will come back to that, of course, but we are specifically talking about curfew tonight, and my group also believes that the role of the First Chamber should be increased. I'm just saying because I know another Member is about to table a motion on this. We are sympathetic to that. Let me check: if the law we are discussing today is adopted, do we not have a debate on the basis of the Wbbg on Tuesday? Is it true that the Minister has agreed to do so? Next item. We support the requests of other parties to make that broad consideration when introducing, but also when scaling down restrictions of freedom. I asked for that myself. So it is not a question of accompanying measures, let me add. We appreciate the fact that the Minister is going to make that clear as concretely as possible. I agree with the requests made by Mr De Boer van GroenLinks in the second term. Thank you for the commitment to send a letter following my request on the roadmap in relation to scaling. There again support for the request made by Mr van GroenLinks to supplement it. Finally, and that is actually the most important thing, the final assessment. I started with it: that remains a dilemma. A dilemma, because proportionality simply cannot be remedied. That's actually the core of the story. You can get figures from 8% to 14%, or 10%, but even though you can't call it a gamble, because there is something underneath, it's absolutely unworkable, even because those figures are also related to other measures. What value should you attach to that? That is what my group is going to consider when the second deadline comes to an end. We are aware that the state of the corona pandemic is not flourishing and that we should not, therefore, be too easy to abolish measures, whatever their effect. It's still a dilemma. It's still awkward. We're gonna make the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u379	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u380	What I took into account in the debate, and what I actually found interesting, is the Minister's remark that there is a huge public support for this measure. I was thinking during the debate: we are always talking about the proportionality of the impact of a measure to be measured, but that effect always weighs against the infringement of fundamental rights. So you weigh that against the experienced breach and the extent to which people consider that infringement to be too far-reaching. If such a large majority of the Dutch population now thinks: okay, it may not be as good to measure in direct effect, but it is part of the total, could it not also play a role in that proportionality weighting? That's what I'd like to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u381	Yes and no. Let me first say why not. The vast majority of the Dutch population believe that if someone has been given a life sentence, someone should actually get a life sentence and that the key to the cell should be thrown into the canal. Following your argument, we would say that the majority think it is, and it is the ultimate deprivation of liberty, but it must be possible in the context of proportionality. I think Mr Backer himself does not mean that either. There is also an intrinsic consideration, no matter how many people agree or disagree. The second point I am saying yes to, and there you have in fact convinced me in part that it was one consideration under the Wbbbg, one measure under one law. But now we have a measure combined with many other measures under the Temporary Law covid-19. Then you have to see that measure, especially since it has already been introduced and it is about abolishing that measure, much more in relation to other measures. Then I find acceptance more relevant and I also think that we, as a group, should see this balance more in relation to those other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u382	On the first point. When you ask people about it, they always think that punishment applies to someone else. Then it's easy to say. But in this case, everyone knows it's about all of us. So in that sense I would say: perhaps you can still consider that. But that's a question and a comment at the same time. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u383	I have a question for Mr Recourt of the Labour Party. I hear him say: a choice has now been made to hang it under the Temporary Law measures covid-19 instead of under the Wbbbg. But then it's still the same measure, the same curfew that keeps people locked up in their own homes every night. What makes this a better measure for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u384	I totally agree with Mr. Van Hattem. Sitting at home is sitting at home, on whatever basis. On average, that will be a real sausage for the people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u385	I just heard Mr Recourt say that I was somewhat convinced by the speech of our colleague from D66, Mr Backer. But it's still the same shit. So there's all the more reason to say: if you don't want one, you shouldn't want the other either, because you're stuck with the same problem. There are very different opinion polls on the basis of support. There are also polls where a very large proportion of the population says: we do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u386	I think everybody's saying, "I don't want to." Because nobody wants a curfew. Of course, it's a question of what conditions you accept a curfew. I would, however, like to assume that a majority will support it, also in view of the figures. But again, that is not my group's main consideration of voting for or against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u387	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the sometimes very detailed answer to the many questions. The Minister has explained in detail why he considers that the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity of the measure of curfew currently in force are met, from 9 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. I have not been able to discover many new elements in what was already said yesterday in the House of Representatives. My group will allow that to settle for a moment. Mr. Chairman. The Minister was proud to note that compliance with curfew could be set at around 94%. That is not surprising, because this is the only measure whose enforcement is, in principle, easy to achieve. Violation is quick and easy to identify. My group wonders whether this 94% has been presented before or after the very reprehensible riots that occurred in the first instance after the curfew was announced. At that time there was significantly less support among the population. Mr. Chairman. Should the present bill be adopted, the current curfew measure will pass into the Temporary Law measures. The construction via Article 8 of the Wbbbg will then lapse. It has become clear that a possible extension or modification in terms of times corresponding to the curfew will have to be made by means of a ministerial arrangement. Up to two times, the Minister said that this change would then be submitted to Parliament. But in fact, he only means the House of Representatives. This brings my group back to the question in my contribution in the first term, which is why the Minister dissuaded the 50PLUS amendment on equal voting rights for the Second and First Chambers. Mr. Chairman. I've listened very carefully. The Minister made it clear, also in response to questions from Mr Janssen, that he was in a difficult situation. He was able to put forward all the criticisms made by several Members in this Chamber because they felt that the role of the Upper Chamber was being undermined. But when he had the chance to at least point out that he was also personally struggling with this dilemma, he left it behind. Any Minister or State Secretary can give an amendment or motion judgment Chamber, so that he sends a clear signal, also towards the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a curfew, but it can be stretched to, say, a daytime clock, as was used in Spain, for example, at the beginning of the crisis. My group notes, for example, in response to the Minister's response. And this is an important fact. I have a specific question for the Minister. Is there a connection, a connection, for example, between opening up secondary schools, restaurants or shops and the duration or extension of the curfew? For example, during the day there is a greater risk of infection, which you lift by curfew as it were. I'd like an answer from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. It may be a bit faint, but has the Netherlands been shut down by the introduction of curfew or not? I didn't get an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u389	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw some live footage of myself this afternoon in this debate, and I came to the conclusion that it's really time for me to go to the barber again. The people who know me didn't even recognize me anymore. That's why. Like everyone else in this country, I, and of course my hairdresser, want to see things like this again. I think that the Minister is perhaps less motivated for himself, but there has to be a difference. Haha, haha. However, all the madness, Mr President, is that the reality is that far-reaching measures are still needed to control the pandemic, to protect people's health and to keep people's health in check. With regard to the long-term developments concerning the pandemic and a broad weighting of measures, I had written down some words for this period, but I am going to keep them in relation to the time until next Tuesday. Three months ago, in this Chamber, we adopted the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Mr Meijer, at the time the spokesman on behalf of my group, said that this law provides a good balance between the possibility of acting urgently and sufficient parliamentary involvement. It makes it clear, including in the parliamentary debate, that all measures in relation to the corona crisis are based on the same legal basis. You will understand, Mr President, that we believe that this curfew measure, the "Temporary Law on Limitation in the Open Air Covid-19," should at least be incorporated into the Temporary Law on Measures covid-19. My group will therefore vote in favour of this bill, which includes the curfew measure in that law. We thank the Minister for his commitment to publish this law as soon as possible after it has been approved. I have another question to clarify the letter the Minister has promised. On the basis of our questions, he did not go into it very explicitly, but I proposed, in particular, that the letter on the scale-up or scale-down of measures should also consider whether the curfew should still, by definition, be the first measure to be scaled down, so he is still in the roadmap at the moment, because other important matters may also be made possible under a simultaneous maintenance of that curfew. I think I heard Mrs Baay say it in that direction. I know that a number of colleagues here are more critical of curfew than other measures, but when it comes to education, for example, or the possibility of re-exercising contact professions, I would like to take this into account. So I would like the Minister to take that up in his letter. Mr. Chairman. It hasn't been a simple day for the minister. On behalf of my group, I wish the Minister a good weekend with sufficient opportunity to spend time in the open. 'Cause the weather's gonna be great this weekend, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u391	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, we all need a haircut, because more and more people are gonna look like Mr. Voermans. Anyway... The discussion between Mr Backer and Mr Recourt appealed to me, because it was about essential matters. Mr Backer said: should we not take into account that there is broad support? That has already been discussed. But even with broad support, it is not about whether we want the curfew, because no one wants that curfew. By "portrait" is meant: how many people think it is acceptable? Then I wonder if that is something I would like to ask the Minister whether we can look at that support. Isn't it a lot like that anymore? We made a law. A number of strict criteria have been introduced into that law by means of an amendment. Those criteria are also there to protect the minority who currently do not have that support. We need to keep a close eye on that. We must therefore always, as the First Chamber, test the criteria laid down in that law, even if the basis is enormous. Mr. Chairman. There are two articles in that law. Our group agrees with Article 1, but our group does not agree with Article 2. You can't vote for half the law and vote against the other half. That is why we will vote against the law. That is against Article 2, because Article 2 basically continues the existing curfew. This means that we must look again at the requirements of the law, the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. We have discussed the necessity in detail. Mr Recourt has also said once again that they are struggling with it, because it has not yet been demonstrated in fact. We've already been through that struggle. We believe that this is indeed the case. It's not enough. In my opinion, above all, it is not enough... I have told the Minister: it cannot be that all kinds of people who are not contagious at all should now be locked up in their homes, while 40% of the others who have been declared contagious do not comply with the quarantine obligation and go out on the streets. How huge is its contribution to the spread of covid? Shouldn't we focus much more on that? Can we not achieve sufficient profit on this, so that we do not need that profit that is needed in the Minister's and the Government's view to achieve through curfew? Think also of the collateral damage, the depressions, all the other misery. It has not been clearly portrayed at the moment. I'm glad it's gonna be more insightful. Mrs De Boer mentioned that. But at the moment it is clear to us that it has not been made sufficiently clear. Unfortunately, we are opposed to Article 2 on good legal grounds and will therefore have to vote against the law. Mr. Chairman. I assume that law will be passed. Then I would like to put the following question to the Minister. If that law is passed, I conclude from Article 2 that the entire curfew decision is based on the law we have in front of us today. So, what about this one? I'm just gonna call it Brigitte Bardot Act. It's actually Brigitte Bardot one and a half times, because there are three b's in it. That law has actually become empty of substance. Can I see it right that next Tuesday we won't have to deal with that law at all? Or should the Royal Decree, which actually brought that article into force, be repealed? If that is not withdrawn, there is still a basis in that law for a curfew or whatever, the outdoors. So I'd like an answer to that. It's important to all of us. Well, at least we'll know where we're going on Tuesday. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the position of the First Chamber. Mr Recourt has already made an advance on this. If this law is passed now, setting a curfew is based on the Twm. The First Chamber has no position in that. If there is a measure, so if the curfew is later extended, or if there is a new curfew, you will have to send it to both Chambers, but the right of assent is only granted to the House of Representatives. I, my group and other groups in this House find this really unacceptable. That has led me to table the next motion. The: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Janssen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Raven, Mr De Boer and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of a curfew is one of the most far-reaching interventions in social and private life;]] [[Whereas the Council of State recommended the inclusion in the Twm of the regulation of restrictions on outdoor stays other than those originally proposed, so that Article 58b of that law applies and the requirements of necessity and proportionality expressly apply;]] [[Whereas verification of whether a planned introduction of a curfew meets those requirements in a democratic legal order should be granted to both Chambers of the States General;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that if a curfew is established or an existing decision to set it up pursuant to Article 58j (f) Twm, that decision shall automatically lapse if the First Chamber decides not to accept it within one week of the date referred to in Article 58c (2) Twm;]] [[calls on the Government to make this possible at the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u393	I'd love to. Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, I'll be hearing from the Minister's response to my questions about the seventh member of the law. To what extent would that mean that the present curfew decision will actually lapse, because the three weeks since its entry into force are over? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention once again to the point raised by Mrs Baay. That is the question that the regulation currently in place is not limited at all to the hours of the evening. The Minister said: if you look at the explanatory statement, you can see that we are actually just trying to take over the provision contained in the Brigitte Bardot Act. But it's not. When we look at paragraph 5, an essential paragraph in the legislation, on the implications for fundamental rights and human rights, it is clear that this law is only intended to set a curfew. The proportionality test is also always about that curfew. For example, it says here: 'in normal circumstances, the freedom of demonstration is regulated' and so on. The freedom of demonstration here is proportionately restricted by this law; not by the curfew measure that minister takes, but by this law. And then you see that this law "mets the requirements of proportionality and proportionality, as set out above with regard to the right to freedom of movement. It remains possible to demonstrate during the day and evening until 9 pm." Just below that, it's about divine services and that sort of thing. It is also said that it is still possible to do so until 9 p.m. and that is why the proportionality test has been complied with. The whole law therefore focuses solely on the consideration of whether a curfew may be proclaimed. In that sense, I would like to repeat this to the Minister, so that we do not have a problem later. Because if it is ever necessary, in the Minister's view, to use the law on an afternoon or at other times than the evening and that happens, then I can give you a note that there will be another procedure and that we will have the chance of going down. Because if you look at how the law is set up, the law is not aimed at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u394	You're almost done, so finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u395	I was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u396	You're done. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u397	We had a very constructive day, on which Mr Nicolaï raised many relevant points about legislation. When I listen to him like that, he's not done with that. Having said all that, and given all the things that have been clarified and everything that the Minister has responded to, I find it disappointing to hear that Mr Nicolaï's final conclusion is, as almost always, that he votes against. That is an observation. I sincerely regret that. That's one. And two: I wanted to correct a point about the importance of the minority. My words already show that I think that's important. Moreover, we are a political group that sometimes belongs to minorities. We're all in this country, sooner or later. My thought exercise with Mr Recourt on the basis of acceptance was not aimed at the point that the majority is always right, that is not how democracy works. The question was whether proportionality could not be measured differently. You gave it a completely different twist, and I would like to clarify that. I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u398	No matter how you turn it or turn it, whatever it was meant to be, I got it that way. At the moment when you arrive with support in the context of proportionality, you are actually working on separating those who find it bearable from those who find it unbearable. You say that when it comes to proportionality testing, a much larger part actually thinks it is bearable, that you should take that into account in the proportionality test. I think that was what you said, I say, looking at Mr Recourt. Then I'm gonna tell them you're doing the wrong thing. The point is that we all have the same right to protection. That protection is in those strict requirements in Article 58b, so we must pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u399	I object to this. In my analysis, we first go through the necessity criterion, through the analyses of the law. Then we'll talk about proportionality. Then it's always about the measured effect. I have made the point, and if that is clearly not possible, because it is explained in a different way, in a debate with you, then I will not do so with you in that debate. I said: could it not also take into account the effect of proportionality as a large proportion of Dutch people, 95%, apparently not experiencing an over-infringement? Could that be taken? We haven't talked about it that way. That was my way of thinking. That has nothing to do with: it is decided by majority; minorities have no interest. You can't explain it like that, or at least I didn't mean it like that, because you can explain everything, but I didn't mean it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u400	That's not a question. A short response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u401	As Mr Backer intended, it has actually already been discussed in today's debate, because a number of colleagues have said: yes, but if there is such a large part of themselves before curfew, then you can count on common sense. Then you say to the people: I'm glad you think it's necessary and we trust you to follow it. Then there is no reason and no need to impose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u402	Mr. Backer, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u403	I wanted to end this little debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u404	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers. The Minister reminded me, in all kindness, a little of a watchmaker who knows how to find every screw, every feather of the watch flawlessly and to name the workings of the clock has no secrets from him but doesn't know what time it is. Mr. Chairman. Today's issue is that the cabinet must demonstrate very clearly that the profound curfew is proportionate to the social consequences. For example, it should be made clear that curfew leads to substantially fewer infections. That clarity wasn't delivered. The individual effectiveness of the curfew cannot be established. The Minister stressed how he attached to a broader balance of interests, not just to OMT opinions. He even suggested that this broader consideration is already being made and promoted. But how does this relate, for example, to the presence of a Jaap van Dissel, scientist and OMT member, during the recent emergency appeal? Isn't that very unfortunate, even in the imagery? Is this not at least the unfortunate suggestion that political responsibility is shifted to a scientist? A scientist provides facts and data, politicians weigh and make policies. The role of Parliament. If the characteristic of the Wbbbg, still the minister's favorite, I taste, is that a curfew can be deployed without the prior approval of Parliament due to acute distress, shouldn't the characteristic of the curfew in the corona law be that prior parliamentary approval is required without exception? Because where else is the difference between those two laws? And does this not fit in with the far-reaching nature of the curfew, as the Minister has appointed today? Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the lack of demonstrated proportionality is sufficient reason not to agree to a curfew. Finally. Much has already been said about the special title of the bill with that word that melts so beautifully on your tongue: stay. In that word, of course, everyone thinks of Nicolaas Beets' poem about the mulberry peaks. I will only quote the first line as a kind of day closure: "The mulberry tops are rowing, God passed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u406	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was still enjoying the final words of Mr Van Dijk. The democratic rule of law is fragile. A lot of people are ready to stick a stick between the spokes. Mr Raven was just using other words. The good news is that the democratic rule of law functions. Straight over power. We've just seen the practical example. There are also countries where the judge is suspended or dismissed from a power displeasure sentence. Luckily, we fix the law. We have done so today in good consultation with the States General, as a matter of urgency and on a Friday. Anyway, I don't think we can be blamed for killing ourselves with a quickie. In his response, the Minister has already clarified the order of precedence between the Twm and the Wbbbg as the basis for curfew, if that would apply. That was one of the crucial questions at the beginning of the debate. He has done so right away in the small debate on order, and I think that was very helpful for the debate. Then, of course, the other order of precedence will only apply if there is sufficient support. This support will be given to the proposal by the D66 Group. The minister got a wet suit, but we're moving on together now. That broader expertise is consulted alongside the OMT is also mentioned earlier with Mrs Bikker and Mrs De Boer is an important point. The quality of legislation has then been discussed. Mr Otten also spoke about this. This is a broader issue which must also be discussed as a broader one. The Minister has indicated that he is prepared to do so. He doesn't think his officials are doing well. I wouldn't say that either, but that issue is relevant. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to wish the Minister strength with his challenging responsibilities, which is an understatement, and express the fervent hope that we will see that curve of infections and deaths go down as soon as possible. I cannot fail to rejoice at the fact that, because of all the procedural complications that the PVV has created, it is likely that they too will have to fill in a statement in order to be able to travel home without a ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u408	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mrs Prins-Moderaar, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u409	Mr. Chairman. We too would like to thank the Minister very much for the comprehensive answer, which he gave to almost all the questions asked. It has become clear to our group once again that the need for this curfew will unfortunately be obvious. It has also been clarified which other alternatives have been discussed, such as the stay-at-home order, to take it literally. We would, however, like to consider communicating this kind of consideration a little more, so that people in the country can see that this is not just a measure, but that it has been discussed very explicitly and that other alternatives have been considered that ultimately have a greater negative impact on people's fundamental rights than just curfew. We would like to give this consideration. We are also pleased that, despite all the discussions, the curfew shows that there are fewer transport movements. This has been explicitly explained. It is not evidence, let me be clear about it, but we do see it as indications that this curfew is doing what it should be doing. Finally, we agree with the request made by Mrs Bikker and Mrs De Boer. It seems to us to recommend not only reading advice from the OMT, but also reading what a number of experts in the field of economics and social well-being say. I am sure that the cabinet will carefully weigh that up, but in this way we can also convince ourselves that this is actually the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u410	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the second term, however, we still have some comments to make. First of all, there are a number of points which the Minister did not or did not address in sufficient detail in the first term. I shall begin with the motion that we tabled in October to the Temporary Law measures covid-19. This motion has been passed. The motion is known as the Van Hattem motion. At that time, I asked for a reaction from the cabinet, which I have already done several times on how the motion is being implemented, namely to identify concrete, verifiable criteria on which the policy can be considered. I still haven't had a response. I would like to have a response from the Minister in the second term, so that we know where we stand. Then there is the point about the clarity of a substantial effect, because that clarity is still not there. A measure is now being taken, a curfew, whereby the citizens are locked in their own homes. I just read that the cabinet intends to extend the curfew after 2 March at the next press conference. This means that people will be locked up in their own house even longer in the evening, without a good foundation underneath. There is no evidence of the substantial effect and there is no clear justification. Not only do we say that, but the judge made that clear last Tuesday. This measure is therefore very disproportionate and contrary to the fundamental rights of our citizens. In short, this is a very undesirable development. We have also asked for the assessment criteria for the less far-reaching measures. If this measure is taken, less far-reaching measures must first be considered. The judge made that very clear last Tuesday. I didn't get a response from the Minister either. So I would still like to hear the assessment criteria for the less far-reaching measures. Can there be a clear analysis of this? Mr. Chairman. Someone was walking by, so I thought there was an interruption. Then I also asked about the mayor's waivers. They indicated that this would also apply after 2 March. Apparently, the cabinet intends to continue this terrible curfew after 2 March. This raises the question of when and on the basis of which criteria we will get rid of that curfew. How long can the cabinet continue to do so, without any clear justification for the measures? Is there always a reason why that curfew should continue? Can the Minister state clearly on which specific, verifiable and enforceable grounds a curfew is or is not continued? We've asked a lot of questions. I noticed in the first term that the Minister is somewhat retarded. He still has the comfort of the majority in this Chamber, it seems. The cost has already been bought, the curfew can continue. There is another possibility, namely the existing rule which has been declared unlawful by the court. So he always has two possibilities to continue the curfew. That's actually a very uncomfortable feeling. I would like clear answers from the Minister in the second term and not the same half-story that we heard in the first term of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The discussions have just shown that this law can also provide the basis for day-to-day action. As far as PVV is concerned, that is an even worse development, which is absolutely undesirable. It's already terrible to have a curfew and to lock people in their own homes after 9:00 p.m. If this law can also put people in their own homes during the day, so if it can provide the basis for a measure of that order, then that is terrible and, moreover, contrary to the intentions of this law, as Mr Nicolaï rightly pointed out earlier. That is why the PVV wants to prevent this absolutely and we are tabling a motion, entitled Preventive measures during the day. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister's reply shows that the draft Temporary Law restricting in the open air covid-19 can also provide a basis for day-to-day measures;]] [[Whereas this is an unacceptable extension of the objectives of this law;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to use this law for daytime action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u412	Obviously, Mr. Chairman. This motion is intended for daytime, but the PVV is unabated against curfew for evening and night. We should have no curfew at all and citizens should not be locked in their own homes by a measure that is ineffective, that does not diminish the pandemic and has no proven effect. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, this is disproportionate. This is in line with all the fundamental rights of our citizens. It is at the expense of the freedoms of our citizens. In short, the PVV will vote against curfew and will vote against this emergency law to enable curfew. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u413	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It was comprehensive. The Minister was also clear with regard to the various variants of legislation under consideration in this Chamber at the same time, and said that the law we are discussing today is clearly preferable to the Wbbbg. I'm happy about that. I expect that after the vote, depending on how it goes, the Minister will act in accordance. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union Group, there are two points that should be answered a little further, given the first deadline. The first is the understanding of the effect of the different fundamental right-based restrictive and freedom-limiting measures. I would really like to challenge the Minister, especially if we go back to the road map and hopefully scale down measures if necessary, but let us hope to scale it down again and again to try to show how substantial these measures contribute or not. I think that changes, for example because compliance changes. Let's hope it gets better. Such things have influence. I would ask the Minister to include this in the letter which has already been promised to Mr Recourt. The second point I have not heard or not heard enough about is the article on the possibility of exemptions for mayors. Nothing else has been included in the detailed rules on this subject. Mayors now have the possibility to grant an exemption in the law, but I do not read about it in the further regulations. I asked the Minister what exactly he was thinking about in this article that was included in the bill that we are discussing here, so that as a Chamber we have a direction in the further explanation of that article. Is that, for example, that a local curfew could be possible or the other way around, that an exemption is granted somewhere? I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Mr. Chairman. At the end of the first period, you saw me at the interrupting microphone a little longer, because I had an extensive exchange of views with the Minister on the aspect of broad advice, what the Council of State actually asked, what I think was asked in this Chamber by many different groups and what was very clearly asked in the Second Chamber with the Segers motion, which was unanimously accepted, and the IMT. I thank the Minister for his most gallant commitment to return to that. I would like him to go a little further than just our phone call, because it does not concern this Parliament. I would also like him to go a little further than to go back to that. Can the Minister promise that within two weeks he will give a letter, as Mrs De Boer also put it, a genuine indication of how he is going to inform this Chamber and, with it, the other Chamber, I am going to provide structural information on the other aspects, which goes deeper and gives more knowledge than the Catshuis reports? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. It is clear that curfew is a difficult measure for my group. He restricts freedom and a lot of people really have trouble with it. At the same time, there are more of these measures. Mr De Bruijn mentioned that. That is precisely why I would like to ask the Minister a great deal: be pure with the processes, be pure with the Constitution. If we are to restrict freedoms, we must at least be clear that the rule of law is proud. In that sense, this week is just a nasty week. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a closure. The Minister has made it clear that if we all stick to the rules, if we all go into quarantine if we need to, wash our hands and keep our distance, that would help so much more. I call upon all of us to do so. We also had a nice time with the coffee. You can see how easy it is. I sincerely hope that, if we all try to comply with the measures even better, we will be out of curfew as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish the Minister wisdom, of course, in the further exercise of his duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u415	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mrs Pouw-Verweij on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. Yet I feel that during his term I have not listened to the answers to all the questions asked by this House. They previously showed signs of a repetition of moves. First of all, the need for curfew. The Minister described in his contribution the possible consequences that the advance of, inter alia, the British variant of the virus could have in the future for the capacity utilisation of the ic's. This does not address the necessity question that I formulated in my first term. He argues that in the future there could be a scenario in which measures are needed to keep the level of infection in line, not why there is an acute need for it now. In fact, as I said during my first term of office, it is clear from the speed with which this law is rushed through, that it is not necessary, even in the event of an acute emergency, to terminate this house in the future. Where the Minister is in a hurry, it appears to be very feasible. My second question. To what extent can the Cabinet demonstrate that this curfew is an effective means to contain the infections? The Minister is also unable to answer this question convincingly. The Minister may continue to screen with foreign studies, but as long as they contain no hard evidence of the effectiveness of curfew alone, he does not meet this criterion. The minister can quote estimates from the OMT, but that is and will not remain the same as evidence. And the Minister can cite a reduction in the number of travel movements and a high degree of compliance, but he does not prove that those specific travel movements are relevant to the level of infection. In short, the Minister is still unable to demonstrate the effect of curfew. In fact, the fact that the level of compliance is high proves once again that the legal obligation is not necessary. Indeed, it can be concluded from the high level of support for the measures that the urgent advice to stay indoors after 9 p.m. will also be followed to a large extent. So even if I were to go along with the Minister in his statement that curfew is necessary and effective, it could still be regulated in a much less radical way than the law before us today. I therefore conclude that the Minister has not been able to demonstrate the necessity or effectiveness of this measure. On the other hand, this measure affects our citizens directly in their civil liberties. Again, the Minister does not weigh this breach against the alleged benefits of the measure. Taking all this into account, my group remains in the decision to vote against the present law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u417	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u418	Mr. Chairman. Is it unwillingness or incompetence? I asked Minister Grapperhaus this afternoon in an interruption when I asked him about the causes of the pattern of ill-thought-out legislation from the cabinet. This is something that we in the First Chamber are increasingly confronted with. Mr President, as far as we are concerned, you tried to end this fundamental discussion rather quickly by putting it in my mouth that I would have talked about legislative lawyers or civil servants in my first term. I've just checked the Acts. What I said to the court earlier this week in connection with the legal curfew fiasco was: "A bunch of coronawappies apparently have better lawyers at their disposal than the Ministry of Justice and Security. The person responsible for this is sitting there, and that is Minister Grapperhaus." That was the literal text and there is no mention of the word "legislator" or "official," Mr President. It is a good thing that this has been corrected and I wish that you do not address me unjustly in this way. What we are concerned with is finding out the fundamental causes of the bad legislation of recent years and getting it out of the way. As far as we are concerned, the role of this First Chamber may also be involved. That is not taboo for our group. In the debate on the miserable Environment Act, I proposed that we take an oath here in the First Chamber which reads: I will not accept or facilitate bad legislation. This in the footsteps of the doctor's oath. As far as our group is concerned, the question of how these legal skatings could have been prevented has not yet been fully satisfactorily answered by the Minister. Minister Grapperhaus would therefore better apologize for this slipper in the footsteps of his CDA-partner Hoekstra. As far as we're concerned, he doesn't even have to cry. Then I come to the roadmap that I asked earlier about the introduction of the new curfew law and the abolition of the old curfew regime. I could imagine that when the new law is published, if it is adopted, the old regulation will be abolished immediately at the time of its introduction. Then the verdict of the court next week in the emergency apple is really not relevant anymore and the Dutch people immediately know what it is going to be. It's probably gonna help fight the corona. Is this indeed the route the Minister is going to choose? Finally. As I announced in the first term, improving the quality of legislation is a very important priority for our group and something we have been calling for for a long time here in the First Chamber together with a number of other groups. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Emergency Law Temporary Law restricting the use of outdoor covid-19 is necessary to replace the legally questionable legislation on the establishment of curfew based on the Extraordinary Law of Civil Authority (Wbbbg);]] [[having noted that the First Chamber has recently been confronted on several occasions with legislation which could be improved in a qualitative legal sense;]] [[calls on the Government to take appropriate steps to ensure the quality of legislation in a structural manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u419	H van Henk. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u420	That's right. And the motion will be put to the vote today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u421	Let me get back to that. As you can see, the motion has been formulated as neutrally as possible. It is not a question of scoring political points at all. This is a fundamental issue for us and, as far as I understand it, for many other groups as well. We would like to obtain broad support for this as far as possible, because this is, as far as we are concerned, one of the core tasks of the Upper House. The request, Mr President, is therefore to vote on this motion immediately this evening, given the fundamental importance of quality legislation. We therefore call, as I announced earlier in my first term, for this motion to be voted on this evening before the roll-call vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u422	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Your request is therefore that this motion should be put to the vote this evening in part H and do so by roll-call. Then I'll come back to your point. You have indeed spoken of laws. You started your input with laws... I'll wait until it's quiet in the hall. You started your input on laws. You said at that time: 'A couple of coronawappies seem to have better lawyers at their disposal than the Ministry of Justice and Security.' This is, of course, linguistically incorrect, because you compare lawyers with the Ministry here. I probably meant the judges of the Ministry of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u423	Yeah, they must be lawyers!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u424	I assumed that you were only talking about the legal lawyers, but apparently it is worse: you mean all the lawyers of the Ministry. Under the Constitution, Article 42 is not what we are doing here. We do not qualify here as civil servants, legislative lawyers or other civil servants. We can, however, qualify the Minister. That is also your job as the government's auditor, but not the officials and certainly not directly. So I ask you not to do that from now on. I'll stick with that. You are in breach of the Constitution. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u425	I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u426	Yes, I shall first give the floor to Mr Backer to see if he wishes to say something about this. At the landing point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u427	I have a request to make to Mr Otten. He says he would like to bring together broad support for this motion. I have brought it up myself, but I think there is a greater chance of broad support if we can just look at it quietly and if we can put the motion to the vote on Tuesday. Then I could take a constructive look at that. Now I think that's too hasty. I don't think it fits in with today's context either. However, other motions have also been tabled which will be put to the vote on Tuesday, so I would like to suggest that you transfer your motion accordingly. In any case, it will have a better chance for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u428	Mr Van Hattem, also on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u429	I do not have a question for Mr Otten, but I have a point of order. When I tabled a motion, as chairman, you indicated that the vote on the motion would take place on Tuesday. Mr Otten is now being asked to vote on the motion this evening. I think it is right to keep up with the assessment of the motions and the timing of voting on them. I ask this also as my motion sees the application of the law. If the law is passed here, it will apply immediately as soon as it is in the Official Journal, I understand. Then I would also like this to be a clause to this law, if the motion were to be adopted. I would therefore like the vote on this motion to be taken at the same time as the vote on the legislative proposal this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u430	Of course, that's fine. I also asked you if that's what you want on Tuesday because that's standard, at least that's my intonation. With Mr Otten, I asked him to do so tonight because he had already indicated that he wanted to do so. So I asked you to confirm that for the Acts and for the officials listening in to make the voting list. And I asked you, "Would you like that Tuesday?" At least that was the intention of my intonation. If that is what you want tonight, you have that right, of course, provided that the Chamber agrees, because that is what the Chamber has to agree to. It can't be done at the same time as the vote on the bill. We cannot allow two votes to take place at the same time, but we can of course also vote on your motion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then the ambiguity on that point has been cleared up. I would indeed like to vote on my motion this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u432	At what point would you prefer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u433	You can just do that right after the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u434	After the vote on the bill. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u435	Of course, it is up to Mr Van Hattem to put his motion to the vote. As far as we are concerned, it would be very logical to do everything at once. At least we do. I would like to return to what you just said, Mr President. I dispute that I have insulted officials or legal lawyers in any way. I have only found that the judge has given the people of Virus Truth right and not the people of the state. That seems to me to be a fairly objective observation. I do not think that has anything to do with the Constitution. You may think otherwise, but I'll fight that. That's what I'd like to say. Then there is Mr Backer's question. The motion is very short, concise and neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u436	I'm gonna interrupt you. Mr. De Vries, don't you want to film in the audience? Proceed, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u437	I have seen a lot of pictures of all kinds of Members on Twitter today, Mr President, but that aside. I shall return to Mr Backer's question. The motion is so short that it is about three sentences that I assume that the fraction of D66 has sufficient capacity to form an opinion on it in the short term. That is what we must do with this emergency law. I understand that he would like to postpone for a while, but I think we should treat all of this as a package deal tonight. So we are holding on to a vote this evening and therefore by roll call. This may be done before or after the law; I find that less relevant. I'll leave that to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u438	You don't care if it's before or after the vote on the law. We'll look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u439	It is about the overall quality of legislation, so after the law may be a more logical moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u440	That's excellent. For the Acts, I repeat what you said: 'A couple of coronawappies seem to have better lawyers at their disposal than the Ministry of Justice and Security.' I can only read that with a qualification of the lawyers of the Ministry. I wish you wouldn't do that here anymore. That's a friendly request. I will continue to appeal to you. We are not talking about civil servants here. They can't defend themselves. Nor does that relate to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u441	Mr Otten, of course, betrays his background by talking about a package deal here. Can we do another package deal? Why is it necessary to vote jointly and severally on this? We can just put it to the vote, right? Then we shall be looking at it in real terms, because the motion is indeed less long than I thought when you read it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u442	Apparently, I'm reading rather slowly. That is necessary because this is a key point for the functioning of the First Chamber. Now let's call it man and horse... you're always talking about that. That's good for me. Now is the time to put your money where your mouth is, I say in English to Mr Backer. Show me you mean it. This is the perfect opportunity for this. Then we can also see how we seriously... It is up to the Minister how he wants to implement it. That's not up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u443	The miraculous misunderstanding has arisen that the importance of the motion is determined by the way in which it is voted on. But the importance of the motion is not increased by a roll-call vote. It's just another way of voting, which takes more time on Friday nights. The question is whether that adds anything. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u444	If we were not all here because the PVV has asked us to vote jointly and severally on the law, I might not have done so, but now that we are here, and the point is such a crucial one for the functioning of the First Chamber, I think I should take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity to look at the real situation in this case for each Member. That was the reason to do so, I say to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u445	Mr. Backer. No? Then Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u446	Let me be clear: I am hearing something about a package deal now, but I would like to put my motion to the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u447	It's a good thing you're repeating this one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u448	And I don't need a roll-call vote. I can tell you that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u449	That can change, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u450	I don't have a motion. I'm not making a request about Saturday either. I have a more enlightening question about the motion itself. In the motion, Mr Otten referred to the fact that the First Chamber was frequently confronted with legislation which was not legally and qualitatively adequate. What legislation are we talking about? Is that legislation that has been accepted here? In that case, the motion is primarily an accusation to ourselves, because then we should have rejected that legislation with each other. Or does the motion envisage legislation that is still under discussion? What are we all saying yes or no to when we are going to vote on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u451	In my first term, I mentioned a number of examples. We've had the Corona Wars Act. We have had an urgent debate on the entry ban. I have said before that the First Chamber is now almost a kind of emergency aid for the cabinet. Okay, well, that's all taken care of. The nitrogen legislation, how about that? The pfas. All this has passed through the previous First Chamber, but the Council of State has shot it to the brink. I can go on like this for a while. There was also much to do about the app law. I can go on for a few more minutes with other examples, if Mr Van Dijk appreciates them. I think we are seeing a tendency. The Merger Test Act in Education. There was a great deal of legal criticism of this too. He didn't go through with it either. I've been sitting here for almost two years and I've seen a lot of it come by.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u452	Clear. I expected this answer. But then I understand the motion. He's much more of a charge or charge to the First Chamber, who's handled it all that way. Then we must look at ourselves in particular. So I think it's quite a complicated motion, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u453	Well, in a way, I agree with you. I also say that the role of the First Chamber is not taboo for our group. I also said that in the case of the Corona Wars Act, when the First Chamber put itself out of play with the veiling procedure. Mr Van Rooijen then tabled a motion. At that time I also said that a First Chamber that does not dare to stand up for its own right of existence should abolish itself. I'm still in favour of that. That is why I say that, as far as we are concerned, there is no taboo on the role of the First Chamber. As a matter of fact, I talked about this with Mr Koole during the coffee. He said that the confirmation of the institutions in a democracy is very important. Now, I fully agree with Mr Koole. I can see him running to the Interrupt Microphone. He also wrote a book about it. I'm gonna read that soon. That is why it is very important that we send this signal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u454	I suggest that we hold the debate seriously. Mr. Koole, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u455	I'm standing here now because my name is mentioned. I'm very much in favour of the stability of institutions. That's what my article was about today, and that's what my book was about. I have discussed with Mr Otten that this must indeed be done. But if there's something that's rolling in front of the First Chamber now, it's that the First Chamber is looking at whether laws are careful. The quality of legislation is one of the main tasks of the First Chamber. What you are doing now is tabling a motion in which you say in advance that these laws are not good. But then the role of the First Chamber is right to look at that. Then you want to put that motion to the vote very quickly, with all the care to think about the motion. This doesn't fit in with the First Chamber. This isn't rolling. I'd say you withdraw your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u456	I would ask Members to exercise some silence in the Chamber. It is late, but I propose to keep the debate serious, ladies and gentlemen. There's a lot of people watching. I'd like to remind you of that. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u457	I think it is a sympathetic speech by Mr Koole. However, despite the applause, we would like to put this motion to the vote this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u458	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Your request is clear and we are going to honor it. Following the previous incident, I would remind Members that, in accordance with Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber, no images and sound recordings are made in the Chamber, unless the President has been asked to give his consent in advance. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? I understand you need a 15-minute suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u459	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u460	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with a number of separate subjects and, finally, with the motions. I wanted to keep the question of the royal decree for the last time. That is, of course, an essential question. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked about the term "closing the place." That, of course, concerned Belgium. I think I would say that quite differently in relation to the Netherlands. However, I had the intention to say at that time that it was a solid lockdown. I think that the latter terminology is mainly at the level of abstraction at which we need to speak here. In any case, it all indicates how serious we have to take such a curfew. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Nicolaï's question about the end of the current arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u461	Can I have some rest in the room, please? Would you like to sit down and take some rest? Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u462	Mr. Chairman. We didn't talk about the judges on purpose today. But there was once a famous Amsterdam counselor who was always talking through the pleas. That happened until a lawyer, who could afford it, shut up once. Then this counselor said, "Go on quietly." Then the lawyer said, "Excuse me, I thought I was interrupting." Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Nicolaï's question on Rule 58c, paragraph 7. I'll start with the conclusion. The end date of the curfew is March 3. It stays on March 3 when the curfew comes under the new law. The cabinet decides on 23 February how it should proceed after 3 March, but that aside. If we were to extend it, it would follow from the amendment that it is allowed to do so by a maximum of three weeks. The current regime under Article 2 will then be in force, as it stands. I think that's the answer to that question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u463	In view of the Minister's response, I would like to say the following. I have just read on NOS Teletext that it considers itself a reliable source, that according to circles around the cabinet there is a rumor that the curfew measure would be extended even after 2 March. Can the Minister clearly deny that this message is correct and say that the measure is not going to be extended, or that there is at least no intention to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u464	I don't know that message. I have just said to the lady of the NIS who briefly asked me a few questions, that there is no intention at the moment to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u465	I didn't quite understand the Minister's answer. So I will see if I can get a clarification on that. I heard the Minister say that you can't fix it for more than three weeks. But that is not the case in Article 58c, paragraph 7. It states that if a ministerial arrangement has been adopted, which will automatically expire no later than three weeks after its entry into force. That's what the law says. That also led me to that question. What if there is an end date in the current decision? If, therefore, the decision contains that end date and if that decision is subsequently based on the law that we have adopted today, then the seventh paragraph shall apply. It follows from paragraph 7 that the decision, which then allows a certain date, shall lapse no later than three weeks after its entry into force. That was my question. I would like to make that clear from the Minister, but he is not giving it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u466	I fear that my understanding here is really lacking. I also see here what I actually said in the first term. I quote from the explanatory statement to the D66 and CDA amendments: 'It will not concern the existing 'to hang' ministerial arrangement on which the present curfew is based, but on a possible successor to this arrangement'. And then this amendment says: this can be done no later than three weeks after its entry into force. This is all hypothetical; I have already said this in the first term, but I repeat it. If a new regulation were to be decided on 23 February by the date of entry into force of 3 March, it would run from 3 to 24, according to the Van Dam/Groothuizen amendment. That's three weeks. Period. Yeah, that's what the amendment says. That's clear as day. I would like to repeat it a number of times here, so that anyone who would like to do so can always hold me to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u467	I am a little shocked, because I actually hear the Minister say that the explanation of an amendment goes above the text of the law. I do not think that the Minister of Justice can afford to do so. If the law states that a decision that has already been taken will lapse, then you may have meant something else in your amendment, but that is how it came into force. This means that a decision adopted on the basis of the Twm to set the curfew will expire no later than three weeks after its entry into force. That's what it says. If the present curfew decision is deemed to have been adopted by the law that we adopt today, then that decision, which has been taken on the basis of the law that we adopt today, will automatically expire no later than three weeks after its entry into force, which you have further regulated in that decision. Even though you have said that it applies until 2022, the decision as such expires. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u468	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u469	Then I shall go back to Article 2, but can I resolve it for Mr Nicolaï by saying here that the curfew as it stands today will in any case be ended by the government on 3 March? Because then we've healed that misunderstanding too. I do not see it, but at least we know here, and everyone who is listening, that the current regime is, I believe, the fear of Mr Nicolaï that it would still apply three weeks after entry into force, in any case, will expire on 3 March. I do not see it, but if it turns out in one way or another that the operation of that amendment has become such that Article 2 would no longer apply in full, the government has indicated that we will, in any case, allow the current valid regulation to expire at 04.30 hours on 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u470	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u471	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. My question is this. If the current regime has been adopted and entered into force at a time when the three-week period has already expired before 3 March, it will automatically expire before 3 March. I can't ask the question any more clearly. Perhaps it will come to an end even tomorrow, because I do not know when that arrangement has been adopted. I'm sticking with it. I point this out because, in Mr Otten's spirit too, we need to look closely at the legislation. And I see a problem here. That was all I meant to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u472	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u473	As Mr Nicolaï may or may not know, I do not know, the scheme has been extended once, so to speak. So.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u474	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u475	Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the point of the mayor, Mrs Bikker and also Mr Van Hattem. The cabinet reconsiders the curfew on 23 February. We have just discussed this in detail. So something hasn't been decided yet. In the current curfew regulation, I have also indicated that Mr Van Hattem has no exemption. There are all kinds of exceptions. It's gonna stay that way. Article 58e states that an exemption system is only provided for in a ministerial arrangement. That is not the case. If such an exemption system is necessary or desirable in the future, then of course it is necessary to put a stop to this. Then it is more a question of a mayor in a particular situation that does not further restrict fundamental rights, but can provide for necessary tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u476	Exactly this last sentence, that's what I was talking about: what does that hook look like? This does not, therefore, mean any further restriction of fundamental rights, but rather an extension where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u477	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u478	Clear. I'm glad that's explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u479	Then there is a motion by Mr Otten, under letter H. I'm going to dissuade them for three distinct reasons. Firstly, because the cabinet does not share the considerations in the motion, in particular one. Secondly, for the sake of time, I should like to make a full connection here. I do not really know whether that is allowed in this house with what Mr Koole has just said to the interrupting microphone. This motion is about what we do together, as a cabinet and states-general. It is right that you have spoken to me the times I have been here, especially in recent times, over and over and over again, about those things that were not in good order in terms of quality. Let me put it this way: at the moment I do not appreciate it, but afterwards, in retrospectively, I do appreciate it, because that is good for the quality of the legislation. Mr. Chairman. The third reason why I dissuade her is because we believe that the phrase 'calls on the government to take appropriate steps to ensure the quality of legislation in a structural manner' is an existing policy. When I became Minister, I learned from your colleague in the House of Representatives that you should always discourage a motion with what is existing policy for the government, because that was already there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Nicolaï about the limits of curfew and what exactly this is about. I understand that very well. There are also two motions. I would like to say quite clearly and honestly, as I said in the first term, I thought that it could also be about other restrictions, because that is how that phrase was built up. We in the Cabinet are not planning anything other than this curfew. Nor is there any indication at present that there are epidemiological reasons for shifting them in any way. Let us be clear: this law only deals with the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic, so that scope is really very limited in that respect. I said the necessary thing in the first term. I would like to refer to that further. In this context, I at least advise against Mr Van Hattem's motion under letter G. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the role of the First Chamber. There was a motion on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u480	The Secretary of State is dissuading our motion. I have just heard the Minister say in his response to Mr Nicolaï that he does not intend to take measures other than curfew. But "intentions" is different from the fact that this law provides a basis for taking that measure. There may be circumstances in one instance which make it possible for the cabinet to take such a measure, even though it may not be effective or there is no justification for it. Then it is in the law and the Minister can come up with such a measure. Can the Minister confirm that this law can also not provide a basis for taking such a measure, such as locking people in their own homes during the day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u481	No, I just explained that. I also made it very clear that it was taken over from the Wbbbg one-on-one. In any case, it is up to the cabinet, because of course it is about the ministerial arrangement that is attached to it. It's about the curfew from 9:00 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. I will come to the role of the two Chambers, the afterhang and that sort of thing in a moment. But that will always come up when the cabinet suddenly says "we're going to do it from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.," so to speak. Let me be very clear about it: if, in the context of the COOVID-19 pandemic, there were all sorts of things to be said about, I cannot imagine, hear that we should not leave the house between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. because the virus has become more of a morning person, then we should say together with each other that this means that we should change the ministerial arrangement in that respect. However, I have now sufficiently stressed that it is from 9 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. in the current ministerial arrangement. There is no indication to suggest that this will be changed in the next, if there is a subsequent ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u482	Well, that's good enough for me, actually. It is a question of the ministerial arrangement which does have the basis in this law. If the Minister suddenly believes that there should be a morning bell or noon bell to lock people in their own homes, that decision can therefore be made on the basis of this law with such a ministerial arrangement. The Minister has just confirmed that. That merely indicates the need for our motion. Can the Minister say once again that such a measure can be taken by means of a ministerial regulation on the basis of this law, whereas in the meantime, in the explanatory statement, only a curfew has been mentioned and there could therefore actually be such a ministerial arrangement on improper grounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u483	I have already explained this in the first period. The explanatory statement also clearly indicates that this is just literal, one-on-one, grafted onto the Wbbbg. That's what the Council of State opinion was about. The House of Representatives also looked into this. I am going to repeat it over and over again: the ministerial arrangement underneath it determines what is going to happen. Is it gonna be a curfew, or is it gonna be a night clock? That is what it has been at some point in time in some countries. So from 24:00 to 04:00 would be possible. If there were to be an extension, there is no intention at this time, and there is no indication that we would ever consider a day clock. Again, the epidemiological, social and other interests are important for this. And then there always comes a afterhang, which is about to be spoken of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u484	Yeah, finally. I must conclude, then, that this law does indeed provide that basis. We must prevent a day clock from being set up on the basis of this law. Our motion is therefore necessary in order to prevent these measures from being applied during the day. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u485	I put it in something else. We're sitting here together, because apparently something went wrong legally. That's what the judge found out. I don't want to end up in a situation like this again. I think that goes for all of us. On the basis of the power............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Imagine that. Does the Minister see a problem when a church society comes to say: you do not have that competence at all; look at paragraph 5, where it says "It is important that the right to religious or life belief may be affected, but that this right still has a very real meaning, while it is still possible to come together before 9 p.m. to profess religion and belief in life"? It follows from that that the powers laid down in the law are not given to be different from those given after 9 p.m....?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u486	I keep repeating myself. We have literally taken the text from the Wbbbg here, so that we do not get into the situation when we review this law that the Council of State could say, for example, that you have limited that law to certain hours or to certain things, and you must all motivate it separately. We have literally transferred that possibility in the Wbbbg to the pure limitation to the covid control. That's as far as it goes. That's what the barbed wire is all about, I'll say. For example, you could imagine that at some point we say that we are only going to set a curfew on week nights. What if the epidemic is heading in the right direction? Then you say, "Well, then we want to narrow him down." There are other things that can be imagined. I also told Mr Nicolaï in the first place that the 24-hour closure was unthinkable. When the OMT came up with that suggestion of such a stay-at-home order, we said: that is not possible in this society. I was going to repeat myself, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u487	I think you'll get the same answer over and over again, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u488	I think it's a little sad, but we're not getting much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u489	Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen asked me to take him to next week's debate to make a commitment that we will not extend if a majority does not want to. We'll talk about this Tuesday. It sounded constructive in itself. I'm gonna chew on that and we'll get back to that. Then there was Mr Van Hattem's question about his motion on verifiable indicators. Mr Van Hattem still has that reaction to the implementation of that motion. As has already been shared with the House of Representatives, and again with your Chamber today, it is very difficult to measure the impact of individual measures. That's what we keep getting back from both the OMT and the RIVM. That is also what we have seen so far in the situation we have discussed today. It is always a combination of measures. Mr Nicolaï rightly paraphrased that the French study says that 8% to 13% is the effect of curfew, but it is also a mix of measures. I will do my utmost, I say on behalf of the cabinet, to inform you soon on how this motion can be implemented as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u490	The Minister strongly stresses the impact of measures, but the motion focuses precisely on indicators, so that the Cabinet should indicate with which indicator a measure can be considered effective or not. Then we can also test when a measure needs to continue or be adapted etc., et cetera, et cetera. I would like to have a reaction to that element.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u491	The cabinet will return to that soon. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mrs De Boer and Mrs Bikker's question. I admit that the cabinet will be returning to last year's Segers motion on an Impact Management Team within 14 days. When I say that, I mean that we are going to go into it in detail and include all the points we discussed, particularly in the first period. Then there are two more things. I had another motion on the involvement of the First Chamber in a possible extension as well as Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question as to why there is no role for the First Chamber in the Emergency Act. I said it again in the first term, I did not recommend this motion, because I think that if there is a tension to what the House of Representatives has previously agreed in the law as a whole, then it should be discussed again with the House of Representatives. Otherwise, we will indeed have legislation that does not fit in well with each other. I know that a single colleague of yours, who took me out of a woof with a wet suit, will frown his eyebrows when I say so. By the way, according to many people I should have had my suits entertained because of the covidobesity, so maybe I should have fallen into that rug anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u492	Covidobesity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u493	Yes, Chairman, Covidobesity. That's a terrible disease. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the role of the First Chamber. Your two chambers have the so-called afterhang. I would like to stress once again and also to say that, at least with regard to the measure we are talking about, but that should of course apply to everything, the Cabinet has the willingness to discuss it with your Chamber immediately during that follow-up period, if desired. I imagine that does not apply to some of these things, but your Chamber will appreciate it in the context of curfew. I must advise against the motion that the First Chamber should have a right of assent with regard to a possible extension of the curfew. For this we really have to return to the drawing table with the House of Representatives on the basis of how the legislative process was originally implemented, because that has not happened explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u494	No, and that will not happen as long as the Minister and other members of the cabinet continue to discourage motions in this direction. The Minister and the Cabinet are taking the lead here, but they could also take the lead. That is why I referred to the inconvenience that I thought I noticed with the Minister. The cabinet could also say: we think it is right that, given the role of the First Chamber, because we want to fight the covid pandemic together, we should look again at those measures under the Temporary Law measures, which we did not foresee when we discussed it in October. The cabinet considers it important to enter into the conversation with the House of Representatives as well, or that is not obvious, for example on the subject of curfew, which is so serious. I am concerned that the cabinet should not say'someone should talk to the House of Representatives', but that you can take the lead yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u495	If that's the question... that's not how I've understood it so far. This motion by Mr Nicolaï, co-signed by Mr Janssen, says in layman's terms: there must be a right of assent, including from the First Chamber, on any extension of the curfew. I see surprised looks again, but that is what I read in this motion. I have to dissuade them for the reasons I have said. I am going to go into something that is not exactly regulated throughout the legislative process. I am prepared to bring this point to the attention of the House of Representatives at the next opportunity, which will undoubtedly be there, because we are about weekly with measures in the House of Representatives, and to ask whether the Members consider that the process relating to the measures in this respect needs legal adaptation. I'm fine with that. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u496	Thank you for this commitment. That is a good promise, but not with the undertone "we prefer not to, but I have to talk to you about it from the First Chamber." That would be contrary to what the Minister has been trying to say so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u497	I can't tell the Lower House, but we're gonna talk to the Upper House from now on. I can't, so I have to maintain a certain neutrality in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u498	Mr Janssen, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u499	Of course, but you can also give your own appreciation of this........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's all I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u500	Mr Recourt, this time, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u501	This time I'm gonna stop at the microphone. Would it help the Minister in his conversation with the Lower House if he could pull an approved motion from the Upper House out of his back pocket? He can then say: "The First Chamber wants it anyway. The Cabinet wants it, too. Why don't we have a little chat?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u502	There is, of course, a motion from Mr Janssen. He hasn't gotten us any further. Tuesday, Deo volente, we can talk about this. Then perhaps such a motion could help. The motion as it is now, I must therefore advise against it. Mr. Chairman. Then I owe you one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u503	I suggest we let the Minister finish his story. Then we'll see if there's any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u504	Mr. Chairman. The royal decree must be dismissed and made public. I don't know who asked me this question. That was Mr Nicolaï. I have to be honest with you about this. If this law has been passed, then we are really rushing to publish it in the Official Journal as soon as possible, as far as I am concerned tomorrow. I'm telling you, as soon as possible. Next, the royal decree will be dismissed and announced. Thus, the present curfew, which is legitimized on the basis of the Wbbbg, the royal decree struck on that basis and the now extended ministerial regulation, is rendered ineffective. I admit this sentence may be an anakolout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u505	Minister, may I ask you to confirm what you have just said by Monday, and preferably earlier, by letter to this Chamber in connection with our agenda for Monday and Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u506	Yes. It will be quite clear that after this weekend we will work with everything. I can let you know on Monday that it's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u507	I'd like a letter. Preferably by Monday morning or as much earlier as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u508	Look or as much sooner as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u509	Monday morning at the latest or as much sooner as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-19-eerstekamer-5.u510	I'm here to deal with the bill. A roll-call vote was requested on the bill. A vote was requested tonight on the Van Hattem motion, motion 35732 with letter G, after the vote. And there was a vote this evening, before or after the vote, on the motion with letter H of Otten. That's gonna be a vote on sitting and getting up. I propose that we have a brief ten-minute suspension so that the political groups can discuss it and that our staff in the Registry can prepare the roll-call vote in order, because they also need some time to do so. If ten minutes is enough for the groups, I shall suspend for ten minutes.
