ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u1	The next item is the debate on the Spring paper 2021. I thank the Minister for Finance once again for his presence here. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. There have been 12 speakers so far. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV. I would like to agree with Members that in the first period we have four questions or comments to the Members and six questions or comments to the Minister. I call Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Now that the fumes of the corona crisis are increasing slowly, the consequences of the pandemic are becoming apparent. A quarter of thezzp'ers are about to throw the towel in the ring. They were severely abandoned by this government. They were shipped off with a tip and now they're stuck with a mega debt. The Ombudsman also spoke today about this issue in Het Financieele Dagblad. This screams for customization. 400,000zzp'ers have a tax debt of more than €20,000. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Unemployment rates also appear to be low, but this year alone 132 000 jobs are expected to be lost in the market sector. Many of these people have found temporary jobs in the government, in the care and in the test streets. But what if corona is over and those test streets shut down? Many companies suffer from a huge debt. I refer to 16 billion in deferred taxes, the deferred rents, the outstanding accounts and the 57 billion in additional loans they have entered into with the banks. In addition, many companies are expected to have to repay billions to over-rewarding corona aid, as they have been too pessimistic about their turnover losses. What is the Minister going to do to prevent companies from succumbing to this high level of debt? That is my second question. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has announced that from the next quarter onwards, businesses will no longer have to rely on government support. But that might be too early for many entrepreneurs. As long as there are restrictive measures, aid is appropriate and may be necessary. The PVV has therefore previously called for this aid to be extended until the end of the year. After all, it breathes with the loss of revenue, so it doesn't benefit, then it doesn't harm. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to invest out of the crisis, so is the adageum. But it doesn't know how. There are billions ready, but no one is reporting for these billions. Two former finance ministers from PvdA have arranged a nice job for themselves, but they are bored to death. Jeroen Dijsselbloem is at 20 billion, the National Growth Fund, but has only approved three projects. Wouter Bos, also an ex-minister, has little to do with Invest-NL. Four companies received 28 million out of 1.7 billion in cash last year. What about the implementation costs of these organisations, I wonder. How many people work there? How much does that cost? And what do these two ex-PvdA ministers actually earn? I read somewhere that Wouter Bos gets two and a half tons for this job, for doing nothing. It is beginning to look suspiciously like'money-seeking project', as Mr Brenninkmeijer described the EU Structural Funds earlier. Billions are ready, but no one's coming to pick them up. And as if it's not enough, we also have an Invest International with 2 billion in cash. We have an FMO. We have the RVO. We have the EFSI and the EIB. Not to mention that there is still 6 billion on the shelf in Brussels. All we have to do is pick it up. The Netherlands does not need a second Fyra, hsl or Betuweline, or whatever the name of these beautiful, sustainable, innovative, digital projects. Dutch people crave purchasing power. Make the Recovery Fund a purchasing power recovery fund. Purchasing power has been lagging behind prosperity for 40 years. As the economy grew strongly and business profits exploded, households' disposable income hardly grew. This gap needs to be restored. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of purchasing power, Corona seems to have made this issue, this problem, disappear in the background. I do not hear any more about pensioners who cannot make ends meet, because they have not been indexed for ten years, or about tenants who are no longer able to pay their rent, because the rents have increased by 28% over the last ten years. I can't hear anyone anymore about the 650,000 households who can't pay their energy bills and live in energy poverty, about the prices of the groceries, which due to VAT, and this year's 9% price increases, rise out of control for many people, or about petrol prices above €2. I don't hear anyone about that, or about the ridiculous house prices. The housing market is overheated and completely stalled. You can't have a house anymore and you can't afford it anymore. Took a house five years ago only five years ago! Only an average of €250,000, now it has risen to €375,000; a growth rate of 50%. And this growth and increase are not even in inflation. How high would the inflation rate of 2% have been, I would ask this Minister if house prices would be taken into account? The housing shortage has now risen to 330,000 homes. And the cabinet does say they're going to build 1 million houses, but I don't see anything of that. All I see is that the Rabobank now, as a savior for the housing shortage, wants to build 30,000 houses. A bank, for God's sake; a bank that's going to build. The CPB predicts a negative purchasing power for next year, and after that they'll be around zero. So there's little to expect for the future. What the Minister is going to do about purchasing power remaining behind is my question. To date, one in five households suffers from problematic debt and payment problems. They can barely pay their rent, their bills, their groceries. And then this cabinet will transfer billions to other Member States. With the 800 billion EU Restoration Fund, the Netherlands stands at more than 40 billion; 40 billion for other Member States, on top of the EU budget, to which the Netherlands has already lost 10 billion a year. The question is: why should the Dutch taxpayer donate 4.5 billion to a country like Italy, where people are three times as rich as in the Netherlands? Why do we have to buffle on until we drop dead, and can they retire early in Italy? Why do Spain receive 70 billion in grants, Poland receive 24 billion, France receive 40 billion? In Brussels, they are scattering our tax dollars, 100 billion for the next seven years, and this Minister allows it. Can the Minister explain once more why it is good for the Netherlands to give away all these billions to countries like Italy and Spain? 'Cause I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u4	Mr. Chairman. The last three spring notes read as if three completely different decades were described. In 2019 we talked about a Spring note with nothing but windfalls, a budget surplus and a government debt that was on its way to historically low levels. The money fucked up against the skirts and the call for extra money just kept increasing. How different was the Spring Note less than a year later, in 2020. We were suddenly in the middle of a crisis, a global pandemic. And it was the hospitals that flooded, not the treasury. Public life came to a standstill, companies and schools had to close their doors and the kitchen table became our workplace. What followed was a huge contraction in our economy and an unprecedented budget deficit. The search for a vaccine was still in full swing and everyone was wondering: would they succeed, would there be a vaccine? And how else do we stand for the Spring Paper of 2021? Not one, but several vaccines. In the meantime, nearly 17 million shots have been made. Corona measures are slowly relaxing and society is opening up again. The contrast can't get any bigger. In fact, this Spring paper talks again, with caution, about economic growth, increasing employment and falling deficits. What a roller coaster. They are hopeful prospects, although this does not detract from the enormous suffering of anyone who lost a dear one last year, or his or her job or enterprise. Mr. Chairman. Now that society and the economy are getting back to normal, it is also time to look at the budget again with more critical glasses. I would like to focus on two points: how does the Spring Paper come about, and what budgetary rules do we apply? In the spring note, the cabinet makes proposals to adjust the current budget. This is preceded by a month's process: framework letters, bilateral consultations, negotiations between directors, claims filed, rejected claims, and ultimately a decision-making memorandum. What the Chamber sees is only the outcome, in the form of a spring note. What the Chamber does not see are the considerations that preceded it. Because why do millions go to one potty but not to the other potty? The Court only sees the financial claims that have been granted, but never the rejected claims. Then how can the Chamber judge the spring note? For example, we see that this year the cabinet is investing more than EUR 600 million in youth care, according to the Minister because of acute problems. Can the Minister give me a definition of acute problems? I understand, of course, that caring for vulnerable young people and young people is very acute. I understand that money is being spent on this. That's not up for discussion with me either. At the same time, we are facing several acute problems. Just after the spring note came out, we heard members of the cabinet shouting for more money for their budget. That will not sound unfamiliar to the Minister of Finance. For example, at the Department of Defense. Because of shortages, the military would not be able to carry out its constitutional task, as we heard the Minister of Defence say. Or infrastructure. We heard the Minister say shortly after the spring note that the deficits put bridges, locks and tunnels at risk. That leads me to the question of why one budget gets money and the other doesn't. Because if acute problems are leading in a spring note, something like national security seems to me to be quite acute. The Chamber just doesn't know whether and how this was weighed by the Cabinet. Has a claim been filed? Did the Minister reject it? Why? Like I said, the room just doesn't know. That is why I propose that the Minister report not only on the financial claims granted but also on the rejected claims in the spring note. What are the reasons for this? I'd like to see that in the spring note. I'm not asking for all the reports, tables and Excelsheets going around in the ministry. The Minister must also be able to do his job. However, I would ask for more transparency from the cabinet on the preparation of the spring note, so that the Chamber has a better idea of the bottlenecks in the current budget and the choices made by the cabinet in it. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then point two. Let me make a point, because I see a colleague coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u5	Yes, Mr GroenLinks, Mr Snels. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u6	I find this an interesting suggestion from the VVD. As it happens, last Monday I had a debate with the Minister for the Interior on ministerial responsibility. This was also about the government's commitment to send decision notes to the Chamber for important policy proposals and legislative proposals. As the Prime Minister said earlier, we are sending all the underlying documents to major policy proposals and legislative proposals. In fact, if I were to translate it, the answer would be to send a decision note to the Chamber in the spring note. It thus reveals the underlying considerations to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u7	It's not me to do the form. Decision notes: I love it all. I'm not asking for stacks of reports, call notes or Excelsheets. I ask for insight into the considerations that are being made. On the one hand, we see the Spring Paper, which contains the choices that have been made, and on the other hand we hear the same cabinet saying: we are actually short of money. Then I want to know what priorities the cabinet has set. Have they been weighed at all? What has been submitted to the Minister of Finance? Maybe those claims weren't filed at all. That's what I'd like to know. Maybe they've been filed and rejected. Then that's what I want to know. But the shape doesn't really matter to me. It may be a decision note, but that seems like a huge piece of paper and a lot of work. That would not be my first preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u8	As I understand the policy of the cabinet, the decision note is a kind of summary of all the underlying information used in decision-making, so that the Chamber can understand it. I would like to suggest that the cabinet should be asked to send decision notes in spring notes and autumn notes. I think we'll come a long way. Then we get the insight that Mr Heinen, I think, is right to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u9	So that's not the proposal I'm making. I ask for more transparency. If Mr Snel's decision notes are to be sent to the Chamber, I am happy to see his proposal. I would like to prevent us all from saying, even before we decide on the Spring Paper, 'We want to see all the interview reports and all the documents behind them'. I hear that a little through Mr Snels' speech. That's not my call. I would like more transparency on the considerations that were made prior to the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u10	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u11	Yes. I was at point two. I had two points and this is my second, the budgetary rules and the budgetary right of the Chamber. In an earlier debate we discussed in detail the Compliance Act and the now famous exception Article 2.27. This has been widely used last year, because with that article in hand, the Minister can spend money without prior approval from the Chamber, sometimes for good reasons. In the meantime, the Chamber has asked the Minister to draw up conditions so that this is not a blank cheque for the Minister. But that principle of that blank cheque should, I think, not only apply to the Minister of Finance. It should be a general guiding principle for all of us. We normally have the budgetary rules for this. They are included in a coalition agreement. It has a disciplined effect. At the same time, there are periods in which we sit in a formation and actually have no government agreement, and with that there are no budgetary rules. I can see things running a little loose here from the Chamber, quite frankly. Should we not therefore agree that all proposals should at least have financial coverage, simply as a general guiding principle? If I look at what has been sent to the Chamber in the run-up to this debate, I have just added it up. I see that 800 million of uncovered amendments have been tabled. So if we blink today, a small billion has been spent without cover, with a higher public debt that we are pushing towards future generations. At the very least, I think that we should indicate in the proposals that we are increasing public debt. I do not agree with the proposals I have seen, but some Members have covered their proposals. I'd appreciate that. Whether public debt is coverage is a political debate, but let us at least make it transparent. Can the Minister indicate if we are here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u12	There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u13	Yeah, free money, I see the SP coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u14	You cannot adjust tax rates or introduce new taxes during the year, but that is normally possible. Does Mr Heinen agree with me that, if you are proposing something new here, the coverage can be fine that this year we take for granted that the public debt will increase, but that from 2022 onwards comes from, for example, an increase in the income tax, the bank tax or whatever? That's a good cover, isn't it? Then you don't necessarily have to cut back on something else, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u15	I agree with Mr Alkaya. If you can only start next year, I would also say at the same time: let the intensification that Mr Alkaya is thinking of begin next year. If it goes straight together, there's cover. If you cover it with later years, you'll move it forward, as it were. But I agree: tax rates can often only be introduced later. I also saw proposals for an increase in bank taxes or other rates. It is the right of the parties to submit that. But you can't spend it until you get the money. The money has to be earned before you spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u16	Basically, we just agree. But let us not pretend that the VVD has the exclusive right to bury wisely or something like that, as if the rest of the Chamber only wants to spend money and the VVD says: whoa, guys, we have to watch out for the pennies. Of course, doing it once in a year has happened very often. That is exactly the equivalent of what Mr Heinen is proposing. If you let something go this year but only cover it as of next year, or spend something once this year, it doesn't matter at all for the public debt. The cabinet spent a lot of things this year on a one-off basis. Is the cabinet unwise, according to Mr Heinen? It doesn't make sense to put it that way, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u17	There is nothing more structural than incidental expenditure. I am not pretending that I have the exclusive right to sound budgetary policy. Only if I look purely at the facts and see all the proposals that have been tabled here today and which are also involved in this debate will that amount to 800 million, a small billion euros, uncovered. I do not think that is a sensible budgetary policy, in all honesty. Mr. Chairman. That's why... No, wait, I'm going too fast. I had another question before that. I would like to know from the Minister of Finance whether we can amend the Compatibility Act for this, so that it includes that financial proposals are always covered. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This also requires the Court to gain more insight into the budgetary flexibility of the budget. In an earlier debate, the Minister of Finance has already promised to inform the Chamber better about the budgetary commitments, including the legal obligations, so that the Chamber can see where the flexibility lies in a budget. I also read in the Spring Paper that there is under-exhaustment. This is quite common in itself; this may happen occasionally. Interestingly, it's to know where structural underexhaustment is. Previously, the General Court also had a report on the scope of the estimates. Is the Minister of Finance also making under-utilisation analyses to see where structural space is in the estimates? If so, is he willing to share it with the Chamber? Again, I don't need to have any underlying conversation notes on this. But I would ask for an overview of the Navy note on where structural space is in the estimates, and to share it with the Chamber, so that Members of Parliament know where they can cover it if they make proposals. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u18	There is another question from Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u19	It's all a little procedural. Sometimes I share them and sometimes I find them a little less strong, like the point about coverage. I have tabled a covered amendment myself, but frankly I find it a bigger problem that the cabinet does not cover things than Members of Parliament do, because that has happened more frequently in recent years. My question is whether Mr Heinen also has a point in substance in the Spring Paper, for example that there is not enough money for housing, that the infrastructure is completely wrong............................................................................................................................................................................................................ I can only hear budgetary process things. I find that quite interesting as a financial spokesman, but this is also the debate in which great choices are made when it comes to where the money is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u20	I am a little shocked by the dedain that talks about a billion euros, which is being spent here without cover. Mr Nijboer stands here, says "yes, those are trial points" and asks: do you actually have any points yourself? I think it is a rather fundamental point. It's about how we deal with taxpayers' money here. And when I see all kinds of proposals being made here that add up to a small billion euros... A billion euros, which is simply spent without cover! And Mr Nijboer is standing here at the interrupting microphone with "a procedural point." Honestly, that scares me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u21	That's another hollow answer. I'm sorry. I asked for a point of substance. I just covered my amendment. I want to do 60 million out of the BIK implementation costs to teacher training. I just covered for it, so I don't feel like I'm being talked to. In recent years, my point has been towards the cabinet: you do not comply with the budgetary rules yourself, and that is sometimes understandable because of corona, but sometimes also sought; nitrogen passes by, this passes by, that passes by, pension passes by; all this can be done and the Chamber is always taken the measure if it wants something else. So I don't share that point. But my question to you was: do you also have a substantive point instead of just budgetary technical points? They are also relevant, but this debate also lends itself to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u22	Mr Nijboer asked for a point of substance. Then let me give you one. Mr Nijboer made a proposal to increase the burden on labour. I'm against that. That would be my substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u23	I don't know where Mr. Heinen gets that from. I'll get 60 million out of the BIK's implementation costs. That's the thing that completely failed. The abolition of the dividend tax did not happen. And then came the BIK, but that was not sustainable. That cost 60 million. It doesn't need to be published, because it's off. And I'd like to use it for teachers' salaries. That has nothing to do with an increase in the burden on labour, does it? I'm not gonna suggest that today. I don't agree with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u24	Mr Nijboer called it the BIK, but now it is about the reduction of the AWf premium. For the viewer at home: these are lower burdens on labour. Mr Nijboer says: pull out 60 million. With the same ease he's talking about the billion, he's talking about 60 million now. Then he says: yes, but these are implementation costs and I spend it on something else. I'll give you a substantive answer. I find it unwise to increase the burden on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u25	However, for correction: you don't need those 60 million implementation costs associated with the IJK if you also lower existing premiums. They're just over and you can spend on something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u26	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u27	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, 800 million is about a thousandth of our economy. Many more amendments have been tabled today, of which, fortunately, the vast majority are simply covered. But apparently a thousandth of our economy isn't. And that is what the largest party in our country has spent a long time on. Okay, Mr. Chairman. In the corona crisis, many people found out which professions are truly indispensable in our society. These are the cleaners, the security guards, the caregivers, the teachers, the garbagemen, the packers and package delivery workers. When it really came to it, they, these heroes, kept our country running. And let that be just like the professions that are greatly undervalued. An economy that is structurally undervalued in this type of indispensable profession is not only unjust, but it simply doesn't work well anymore. We therefore need to reform, we need to make our economy much fairer. The SP has several proposals to make the private sector fairer, but I want to focus mainly on the public sector today. First of all, salaries in health care. The gross starting salary of an HBO nurse is about €1,800. For a logopedist that gross is about €1,950. For comparison: someone who has completed HBO ICT can count on a starting salary of €2,700. Hbo logistics is about €2,600. Of course, these are just examples, but appeals in the care we have applauded are consistently in the right row when it comes to appreciation. And that while our caregivers have had a high workload for years, with too few colleagues and a lot of bureaucracy. Healthcare providers have helped the Netherlands through the corona pandemic by working day in, day out and providing us with the very best care, one of the very best in the world. That is why they simply deserve a wage increase as far as the SP is concerned. After many actions, debates, petitions and votes here in the House of Representatives, there was also a majority in the House of Representatives for this, but it cannot then be that the government does not implement it. For this reason, today, the SP proposes, per amendment, that this year budgetary room be made available for this increase. This is possible because the ridiculous Job-related Investment Discount has just been discussed. We could use that budgetary space to make it possible to raise wages. From next year this can then be covered by an increase in the tax on profits for large companies. In this way we can organise solidarity. Is the government for this, too? The government proposes to reduce the WW premiums that employers pay to compensate for the failure of that ridiculous BIK, as it is called. So the gift to companies has to be made to the left or to the right anyway. Actually, I find that shameless. The abolition of the dividend tax was not possible. We didn't go through with the tax reduction. Then came the BIK. He also died, so now the WW premiums are going down. What is this going to mean for the General Unemployment Fund, I ask the government. Is the government prepared to at least fully compensate the lost premiums? Does the Commission share the view that workers should not suffer in any way, not now, nor in the future? Not only healthcare providers have long been taking action to improve working conditions, but teachers in primary education have also often taken action to reduce workload and improve pay. But despite strikes and a shortage of teachers, the government still refuses to close the pay gap between primary and secondary education. A high-quality economy starts in the classroom, in primary school, with sufficient and good teachers. That is why we are proposing to increase wages in primary education and to cover this as from next year with the increase in the banking tax. Is the government prepared to allow the financial sector to contribute to our society and to our knowledge-based economy in this way? Wages are important not only for sufficient and good teachers in primary education or in general education, but also for their education. However, the teacher's fair is structurally inadequate. Too many teachers who want to train themselves have to do with an empty scholarship. Therefore, the SP proposes to spend 12 million from the National Education Programme on the teacher grant. This is only a fraction of the money available. Is the government prepared to make this possible for the teachers? Mr. Chairman. Cleaners, security guards, caregivers, teachers, garbagemen, packers and parcel delivery workers, people who couldn't or hardly work at home, kept our country running in the pandemic. They now, structurally, deserve more appreciation and respect, including from us, including from politics. Higher wages, profit sharing, more control and also less bureaucracy are just ways to show our appreciation. Those aren't goals in themselves. They are only ways to show that we appreciate and acknowledge that without these hard workers our country would stand still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u28	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We live in a turbulent time after sixteen months of corona crisis. It hasn't missed its impact on public finances either. Every time I see the numbers, I am still very proud of how, with the support of the entire Chamber, this cabinet has always been able to free up resources to help us through this crisis, when it comes to the care, but certainly also when it comes to the aid packages. By 2020, nearly 28 billion in corona expenditure. In 2021: expected €41 billion in corona expenditure. Those are really unprecedented amounts, and also amounts that were urgently needed. I am not talking about fiscal aid: 4.5 billion last year. The tax deferral: 16 billion. Mr. Chairman. Then you would think that today we are looking at a very gloomy spring note with derailing public finances and that we should be seriously concerned about the years ahead. But I think it is a sign of a how well we have looked after the pennies in the past, and this minister deserves that compliment too, and b how the economy is at the moment. So it is not less true when you look at public finances. In the latter amounts, EMU debt seemed to be well over 60%. In the latest estimate of the Central Planning Bureau, this is about 55%. That's ten percentage points lower than we thought a year ago. That's just good news. That's good to think about, too. If you look at the coming years and the new estimate of the Central Planning Bureau, you will see that debt at the end of the cabinet period, in 2025, is falling further. The Central Planning Bureau estimates that under unchanged policies, debt will fall further to 27% in 2060. A year ago, they were more than 20 percentage points higher, almost 50% higher. This shows that it is a good thing that we have built buffers in the past, that the Dutch economy now seems resilient and that investing well in support has returns. Very often, many economists with Keynes have said in hand that you are always late with incentives policy, but this exceptional crisis shows that the large support packages of the cabinet, with the support of the employers, the employees and this Chamber, have prevented much worse. We're not all there yet, but it's something to think about today, I think. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, there is still considerable structural expenditure. My party has all kinds of ideas about what you can do partly with that financial space. Think of large-scale occasional money. We have to dissolve nitrogen and we have Urgenda. I say to this cabinet that there is, of course, still a great deal of work to be done on Urgenda for this year. The same applies to nitrogen. This is the Spring Note, but if breakthroughs are made at that point, I think it will cost money too. That is what is needed, for example, to get the land out of lock with regard to nitrogen. Mr. Chairman. In the Spring paper, the cabinet also makes money available on a number of other points, and rightly so, for victims of the premium affair, for Groningen, for youth care, where the acute problem has been solved and which we know will not end with one-off money, and for the National Education Programme. In total, this amounts to 8.5 billion in exceptional cases, but also structural funds. I welcome the fact that this outgoing cabinet has taken these measures for a number of very urgent matters that could not wait. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something very specifically about the years ahead. One thing that stands out is that healthcare expenditure continues to rise in the coming years, stronger than national income. The question remains how we deal with that. It is in stark contrast to how education expenditure is dealt with in the budget. There quality is not automatically translated into more money. How do we prevent this kind of expenditure from becoming the child of the account? I believe that this is a fundamental debate about how we buried, how we want to deal with care, but also about how we want to deal with education, for example, which is still not seen by the Central Planning Bureau in all accounts as an investment that is profitable. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the National Education Programme. I have one question about that. The means are limited in time. This leads to a reduction of 250 million in MBO, HBO and scientific education for the following years, starting in 2023. I don't think that's fair. I think this is a corona receipt, just to stay in jargon. I have therefore tabled with my colleagues Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Meenen, who are doing education, an amendment to remove this multi-annual reduction in education. We do not do that anywhere with corona expenditure, so, as far as I am concerned, this should not happen in education purely because we have set an end date somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u30	Thank you. There's a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u31	May I finish this point for a moment? Then I'd be happy to answer the question afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u32	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u33	I'm curious if the costs that have been estimated will occur. This did give me a dilemma, because I am not really allowed to amend it on a multiannual basis. In fact, I would ask the Minister to reflect on the fact that we do not actually have any budgetary resources for the years ahead. So we have solved it in this amendment in such a way that I am less freeing up for this year, which can then be used with a cash drawer to get those cuts out in the coming year. I admit it's a bit of a detour. I hope that the Minister will be able to cover this in a different way, of course without making any cuts in education, because I do not think we want any of that. But if there is still some under-exhaustment, that can of course also be used. I am releasing these resources to ensure that there is no need to cut back on the education plans that are now in place, whether they are in the national programme or otherwise. If they're not all necessary, I'd love to hear it, but at least they'll be there. I'd like a response from the Minister. I am, of course, always open to doing something about the wording, if that would help the Minister to vote mildly. Thank you to Mr Alkaya for his patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u34	I think Mr Van Weyenberg is wrong to distinguish between health and education expenditure. If the corona pandemic has shown one thing, then that's that you need to be healthy before you can flourish. Everything had to be locked. The whole economy had to lock up because of the capacity in care. We all want to be healthy, and we all have to be healthy, and then we can flourish as a society. Our caregivers will take care of that. If Mr Van Weyenberg says 'if we spend money on education, then that is an investment in the future and that is not taken into account', does he share my view that this also applies to care, and that is why, for the same reason, we should not cut back on care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u35	We're not cutting back on care either. In fact, billions are added every year. Mr Alkaya is quite right in saying that we have all been pushed with our noses on the facts of concern and on the importance of caring for all of us. I note, however, that we treat different parts of the national budget differently, which we all consider important. This is not a competition between the teacher and the doctor or the nurse. I am looking for ways of preventing, for example, educational expenditure from being an ever smaller part of the budget. Healthcare expenditure is increasing more and more than economic growth, leaving expenditure on international cooperation or education, for example. That's the last thing I'm worried about. Not because I don't want to give the best care, but because I don't want to see other sectors fall behind. That's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u36	The effect described by Mr Van Weyenberg is not so great in practice. Care costs do not rise much stronger than the economy at all. If you look at it as a percentage of the economy, it's been between 9%, 10% and 11% for years, and if you don't do anything, it's going to be about 14%, 15%. It is not at all the case that we are going to see healthcare costs that grow to 20%, 30% of our economy. If we don't do something, it'll go up to 14%. So we're talking about one or two percentage points of our economy. That is a lot of money; I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. But I would ask him once again whether he shares my view that we should not cut back on the concern of the basic path. I admit there's more money in the care because we're getting older. We also spend more money on care because the opportunities in care are increasing. That leads to a certain basic path. Does D66 agree with me that we should not cut back on the basic path? Or is that all of a sudden in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u37	I would like to draw Mr Alkaya's attention to the passing on of our election programme. It contains a number of concerns that we are making available money for, for example, salaries. But there are also a number of issues that we are trying to reduce the sharp increase in healthcare expenditure. I don't think that's wrong at all. In fact, if we do nothing, healthcare expenditure will increase by 14 billion in the coming years and education by a third. I would also like to tell Mr Alkaya that this is not a competition between sectors. I find it remarkable, however, that quality increases in care are automatically compensated. You can be for or against that, but I note that in education... Well, a lot of educational institutions and teachers would like them to automatically get money for new ways to give better education. I would like to point out that the fact that we have other budgetary rules must not lead us to lag behind in areas such as education, international cooperation or defence, or in the fight against poverty, without thinking about it and making explicit choices. That is what I would like to draw attention to, that we are dealing with this very differently in the budget. Finally, Mr President. I explained to the Minister our amendment on that corona receipt, which I would like to make sure does not require cuts in MBO, HBO and scientific education. I asked him whether he could reflect on how we could deal with this multiannual budget flexibility and the role of the Chamber a little more widely. I found it uncomfortable that I should actually add money this year. I will do it because I want to make sure of this, but I need a detour to get there because I cannot amend the other one to the multi-annual budget. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. We often talk about broad prosperity here. Directors always give an opinion on motions and amendments, and that is always financially motivated. I get that. That hygiene's good. Everyone chooses whether to do it in the state debt or otherwise. There was also a small debate with Mr Heinen on this. But we never really talk about climate debt. Would it not be a good idea for the government to include in its assessment the impact not only on public debt but also the impact on achieving the Paris goals and climate debt, so that ministers under the leadership of the Minister of Finance can score on these two points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u38	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is a double missionary, but there has rarely been a spring note in which so many and so many substantive choices are made and put away with money. There is no other way, because we are in a year in which the pandemic was taking hold. Mr Van Weyenberg has just said that more than EUR 40 billion of corona aid has been given on the expenditure side alone. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a compliment to the cabinet on economic policy in this area. I already did that on Accountability Day, but now again, because that is one of the most important things. The Corona policy will be discussed again tomorrow. I'm kind of worried about that. If this continues, no one in the Netherlands can go on vacation anymore, but they will talk about it tomorrow. But the corona support policy has just worked. Unemployment threatened to rise enormously. That's preventable. That's incredibly important. The economy has also continued to function reasonably. That just means a lot in people's lives. That does not mean that no choices were made that I would have made otherwise, or that the PvdA Group would have made otherwise. I'll start with the housing. The housing shortage continues to increase every month. House prices are rising rapidly. The starters aren't getting in the way anymore. It is not the case that the housing shortage says: well, there have been elections; they are endlessly busy in The Hague to come to a cabinet, so these problems also end for six months. Of course it isn't. I'm asking the cabinet how it's going with that, because I don't read anything about that. Last year all measures were taken which were temporary, i.e. only for this year, for 2021. Take the Housing Fund, which we negotiated together with GroenLinks with the Cabinet, to increase the viability, but also the Housing Impulse, to build homes this year. Then it was said that next year there will be a new cabinet, which will then take decisions. But that's about to come to an end. And with spring notes, you basically make the main decisions on next year's spending. I'm asking the Cabinet not to stand still. So do something about the landlord's tax. Extend that housing impulse. Extend that Housing Fund. Do that with one year if you have to. After all, there must be a bit of certainty for builders; it is not that if you place an order now, you can still do it in December and that they will build there in January. So I'm asking the Cabinet to do something about that. My second main concern is education. Mr Van Weyenberg has just mentioned the cuts that have been hidden over the years. I very much support him in that. But that 8.5 billion, which came at once two weeks before the elections, I haven't checked it anymore, but that was the sort of thing that they get spent with no sensible means. And if you do it already in a year, you'll have teachers in that year, but you can fire thousands of teachers in the year after that, if you can get them anywhere. So that wasn't very thoughtful, and it turns out so. In a column in the Volkskrant today you can read that there is a risk of an increase in opportunity inequality, because the very best schools can use that money to buy away the teachers, and the schools they need the most, they no longer have. So I ask the Minister whether that was wise. We have been able to read a whole reconstruction in the NRC about the discussions within the cabinet. I like to leave it there; I can hear it all. But I do have concerns about the fact that there has not been structural investment in education, and a lot of it occasionally, without any thoughtful policy. It's just thrown over the fence, saying, at least you don't have a financial problem. But, of course, that didn't solve the problems in education. The third point is Groningen. You know, I'm also a spokesperson for earthquakes. I'm good at that matter. If you put that in financial order... the Griffin has tried to do that for us, impeccable as they are. 11.5 billion over the next six years, but it's all in different proportions. The damage and repair and reinforcement, it's all in different proportions and contributions from the Empire. There's no strings attached, even after the questions. What does the Empire pay and what does Shell, Exxon and the NAM pay? I would like an overview for the coming years on all these different aspects: the recovery, the damage, the administrative support. Who's paying what? All the more so because the NAM is pulling away more and more, starting legal proceedings against the minister and wanting to pay less and less, while they have ultimately caused it. The Ministry is now investigating a tax on oils, as they have done with the banks. The NAM behaves in such a way that the Chamber will have no choice but to vote for it, I think. But I think it's good to have that insight. Is the Minister prepared to provide that? You don't have to do that tonight. Really just a little long-year. Who pays what? What are the keys? Also the guarantee at EBM. That's a technical subject, but we have shares in it. That's where the cabinet makes a deposit. But what does that mean for their guarantee of Shell and Exxon? I find all these questions relevant as a Member of Parliament. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then the NS. We got a letter from the minister. He said: in Germany, it is completely stuck and that is because of external causes. I didn't think that was such a strong story. 'Cause I thought it was corona. But it wasn't. It is because of collective bargaining, it is because of timetables, it is because of everything, but still quite normal things that have to be done on the track. The PvdA has been opposed to these foreign adventures of the NS for years. You can see the bill coming up now. I ask the Minister to say goodbye to this as soon as possible and also to make a more detailed analysis of what it is coming from. Because it is not, of course, that it was not foreseeable that collective bargaining wages would go up. Those are all just logical things that can just happen to a company. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my amendment. That's nicely covered, I say for the lovers. But it's been a problem for years, and it's a serious problem. That's why I don't get the 8.5 billion. Those teachers in primary school can also be supported by the government to get retrained or higher education. We all care about that. There are a lot of people who want to do that. It's beautiful. So they're retiring. And halfway through the year, we're out of money, and there's no money for that. It was last year. I ask the cabinet, why isn't there money for that? I have an amendment. I also give it for a different coverage, but as far as I'm concerned you'd be much better off spending the implementation costs of the BIK on that, because that was a waste of money, and this is very usefully spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the CPB's Central Economic Plan 2021, the economy shows resilience and accelerates economic recovery in the second half of the year. That gives hope and perspective. That is part of what has been said before, thanks to the financial choices we have made for wide support packages. And although the government deficit and debt increase considerably, according to the baseline scenario they are below the magical limits of 3 and 60% respectively. However, the CPB also outlines a more pessimistic scenario, in which new covid variants emerge that once again flatten the country. We must be prepared for that too. I'd like to tell you an anecdote about our finance minister. Because a little over four years ago, I was the leader of the municipal elections in my municipality and Wopke came by to support our campaign. He had not been a minister for very long and stood up at that meeting as guardian of a treasure chest. He said, "You know what I do when people come to my office and ask for money? Then I'll take them to the coffin in the courtyard and show them the empty bottom." That basic attitude of carefully handling community money appealed to me and I also think it is important. I also took over that basic attitude as alderman of Finance, but that was mainly because there was no money. After the recovery operation childcare allowance, Groningen and corona, putting our finances in order is another important step. Once again we can build those buffers that we benefited from during the corona crisis. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he is already working on a plan to restore public finances. It will probably be carried out by another Minister for Finance, but we think it would be a good idea for this Minister to draw up a route so that we know what we are working towards. Can the Minister share with us all his thoughts on this tonight? Mr. Chairman. In the light of this economy, something is really bothering us. We understand very well that the Minister had a different role in crisis time, that of generous lenders. This role was also needed at the time, but in this way companies have claimed corona aid, such as the NOW, while it turns out that it did not go so badly on those same companies. In fact, some have made solid profits. The question these companies can answer now, but probably not at the time, is: do we still need these funds? How does the Minister see this? Can the Minister give an estimate of the size of this support to these specific companies? Because we ourselves feel that the amounts are in billions. On behalf of our group, like every group here, I have a strong wish list of how we could use these billions for a Netherlands in which we can reduce differences and combat inequality of opportunity. In any case, I would like to have a few colleagues before me who have already called on the companies themselves who know that they are falling into this group: please return the money. It's community money. There are better goals that it can be spent on, and there are citizens and entrepreneurs who really need it. In my mind, I have the entrepreneurs I have spoken to who have not applied for aid because they had sufficient equity or savings and did not want to hold up their hand. 'Cause there are. Or I'm thinking of the conversations with entrepreneurs who were duped, but didn't fall into a solution and had to sell their house. 'Cause there are. Can he indicate if he sees any solutions for doing something about this? Mr. Chairman. That is the bridge to the next theme I would like to draw attention to, namely sufficient buffers for households and businesses. Because the CPB is also not sure whether companies will show the same resilience in the coming relaxations after interning on their buffers due to the hard lockdown. Those buffers must be able to be rebuilt. We have often argued that companies should be encouraged to retain more equity, because many companies, especially family businesses, do so. We have seen in the corona crisis that the crisis was much less severe for these companies. For example, a recent survey by KPMG showed that family businesses had to fire up to six times fewer staff than non-family companies. We are curious to see how the Minister intends to stimulate the build-up of these buffers again. We are also curious to see where the research promised by the Secretary of State of Finance on a tax equity deduction remains, because it also allows us to move companies to retain more equity. Then the buffers of households. The positive CPB recovery scenarios assume that people will re-release the buffers they have built up. But, according to the Minister, how sure is it that households are going to spend their savings and increase consumption? Because according to the CPB, that's not a fact. How does the Minister see that in the light of the CPB's finding in last May's report that families have too few buffers to cope with shocks? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Here we see another problem, namely the low, even negative, interest rates. We discussed this in the previous debate. The ECB is not going to turn the interest button for the time being. As we pointed out in the debate last week, it is really unacceptable for people to have to pay a negative interest rate on their savings and then unfair tax. In this debate, too, I would like to comment once again on the Court's observation that the effects of the small scale investment deduction have not been detectable for 30 years. They argue that the KIA should be abolished, but is it true that the KIA is ineffective? How does the Minister see the future of the KIA, including in the light of the Borstlap Committee's report? This states, on the one hand, that the tax benefits for the company should be reduced, but, on the other hand, that an investment and capital-oriented regime should be in favour of this. Finally. Good financial policy is not about throwing tasks over the fence to our colleagues in the province and municipality without money. It's nice to get our budget together, but we see the misery locally. Cutbacks saw the basic provision for citizens. We have to stop doing that. I shall also table a motion for this in the second term. I would also like to comment briefly on the story of the VVD about no motions without cover. This is just the standard procedure for municipalities. There is not the luxury of imposing heavily on us or of taking on a sovereign debt. In fact, at the moment when we don't spend money with each other, they come under supervision and can get on their knees to keep a pool open or not have to raise the ozb. That contrast is getting really big. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u42	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u43	Mr. Chairman. We've had a difficult year: the Corona Year. When I think back to a year ago, there was much more pessimism, here in the room but certainly also in society. We were very concerned about health care and the economy. I think it was a terrible year for those affected by corona and their neighbors. Yet optimism has returned. We're in better shape. We're economically better off than we thought a year ago. A year ago, we really thought that we might end up in the worst economic crisis since the 1930s. Actually, that's not so bad. I had a bit of the same association as Mr Van Weyenberg in his first term when I saw the June estimate of the CPB: that also applies to public finances. The economy is growing rapidly over the next two years: over 3%. The balance's going down hard. That's going to be below 1% very soon: -0.8% in 2024, out of my head. The government debt is going down hard. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said it: even below 28% in the very long term. But at the end of the next cabinet period, it will also reach more than 53%. The remarkable thing is that the June estimate of the CPB follows briefly on from the Spring Note. The difference between these two estimates is considerable. That's how fast optimism can go. In this way, estimates can be adjusted quickly. That gives hope for the coming cabinet period. I would like a response from the Minister to the CPB's estimate. This also means that there is ample budgetary space, ample budgetary space, to tackle all the major problems in our society. We all know them: climate, education, care, labour market and so on. I'd like a response. I come to a second point I wanted to make. I have asked written questions about European budgetary rules. The Minister answered that last week. These are also important for the budgetary space in the next cabinet period. What's my surprise? The Minister has always said that this is not for a outgoing Minister of Finance and that the content of this debate in Europe is really up to the new Minister of Finance, but in his answers he still leaves open the possibility of concluding a coalition with the Austrians, who are known as the most economical of all European countries in terms of European budgetary rules. I have understood the Austrians in such a way that they really want to stick to the existing rules. In fact, I think that the Minister takes too much room for manoeuvre in his answer to these questions. I'd like another comment on that. Mr. Chairman. Then about the spring note itself. In the end, the Spring Paper deals with policy adjustment. We look at the windfalls and the setbacks, but we also look at the policy windfalls and setbacks. Then we try to change the cabinet policy. That's the function of the Spring Note. I have a number of concerns, proposals and amendments. The first is about the climate. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly referred to 'climate debt'. It's obvious from Urgenda's ruling. There the cabinet simply has the task of complying with that judgment. The Cabinet doesn't do that. We're not gonna make it to the Urgenda pronunciation. We should have done that last year. We didn't. I believe that the cabinet should take measures to this end. I therefore propose that we put in place a budget reserve, as the Minister himself did in the 2018 Autumn Note, but I would also like to know from the cabinet how the cabinet will comply with the Urgenda ruling. The second point concerns the Climate Agreement. Of these, the municipalities, which were also partners in the Climate Agreement, indicated that they lacked money. The ROB's opinion is 70 million. I actually think that it would be good administratively if the Empire, the most important partner in the Climate Agreement, were to ensure that local authorities had sufficient money to implement climate action. I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr. Chairman. Then there are some points about education. The first is about the teachers' fairs. My group has co-signed the SP amendment. I also find Mr Nijboer's coverage interesting. As far as coverage is concerned, I think we can combine it well, but this is a problem that we have to solve. This is a good proposal in substance and it is not about big money. If the coverage needs to be improved, I'd be happy to provide that coverage, but this should be resolved. A more remarkable point, I find, is the ventilation in schools. For this, the cabinet has released 360 million, but that is in a series of three years. We hear that schools are running out of money to get this right in the autumn. Of course, there are still risks with the virus. Nor do we know exactly what will happen in the autumn. Can we not simply use a cash drawer to bring out the money from the years after, so that we can at least give the schools enough money to invest in ventilation in schools in the near future? Nicely covered with a cash drawer; nothing to worry about. Not covered for education is integration education, but that fits with the 8.5 billion. The same argument: integration education is compulsory and there are delays, because even those people in corona have not been able to follow their education properly and therefore have not passed exams. Shouldn't we just compensate for that, so that we can just give all those people the right to a rematch of education? This should be based on the same arguments as in the case of regular education. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr President, very briefly, I see that my time is running out. This is a policy-rich spring note. Indeed, all the measures announced by the Cabinet on the POK have been incorporated into this, i.e. investment in better services, information management and so on. However, a Klever/Ploumen motion has also been adopted, which also deals with the rule of law, services, the Personal Data Authority, the Ombudsman. I wonder how the cabinet's gonna do it. Are preparations already being made for this in departments? Can we expect proposals for this in the budget? How is the preparation of the implementation of this motion going? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u44	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u45	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. This is always a wonderful debate. Mr. Chairman. The discussion of this spring note is the first time we have discussed the government's financial priorities since the publication of the report Unfamiliar injustice. That's anything but cheerful. If, after this debacle, we are faced with one task, it is, in addition to, of course, restoring injustice, to build a just and high-quality government that delivers. That is a long-term issue. But in the short term, we can and must work for that. Fortunately, we see this in the Spring Paper 2021; a number of colleagues have already referred to this. We see it in the large post with additional resources to improve the service to citizens, in the funds for the recovery operation in Groningen and those for the victims, and also in the bitter additional money needed for youth care and, of course, education. Mr. Chairman. But there's still a lot to win if we really want to go to a government that does justice and on which you can rely. Think of the municipalities. The money that they now get occasionally, they are actually structuralally inadequate. The result is that unfortunately there are public facilities that you don't want to lose at all: from the pool to the library and from a service desk to welfare work among young and old. What exactly is the message of this cabinet towards municipalities? What ambition does the Minister of Finance have? There is certainly much to win, even if we look at the functioning of the Empire. For example, in the accounting documents, the General Court stressed the importance of sufficient resources for tight management of ministries and executives and for government overhead. Well, nobody comes to Malieveld for that. An efficiency cheese bowl was quickly distributed. This has happened many times over the past decade. I quote the words of President Visser of the General Court: "In the previous crisis, there was a lot of cuts in support under the motto: less overhead. That's a long-term revenge. When there was money again, it had to go to things that were visible." Yeah, an accountant isn't as petable as a cop. And yeah, I know, cops are way too low everywhere. But today I'm taking it up for the accountant in particular: at Defense, at VWS and, of course, at Finance. How seriously does the cabinet take this criticism from the Court of Auditors? How does the government continue to focus on a better functioning government, on better management and on better access to justice, for example? Then I'll come to legal aid on my own. There is a strong commitment that the incidental additional funds for 2021 will also be available in 2022. There is also a statement, including the Klever/Ploumen motion, that the budget needs to be raised. Mr Snels mentioned that as well. Of course, our rule of law only works if it doesn't depend on the thickness of your wallet. My question is: how are the plans to increase the budget for legal aid being implemented? Do we see that again on Prince's Day? Mr. Chairman. One of the most bizarre side effects of corona is perhaps that money hardly seems to have any value anymore. With big shovels, we spend it. Of course, the government does, but perhaps the private sector will do even more if I look at the increasingly pumped housing market. The maximum loan space is used as if it's nothing, to override other bidders. Today the CNV-young people were still visiting, here on the Square. They had this beautiful booklet with them: We want affordable homes. I hope that this message is not addressed to deaf ears, at least not to the Christian Union, and I am sure that is also true for many colleagues. The CNV-young people had a small apartment of 21 m in size on the Square. I better say "small". Such a small booth with a standard kitchen cube. Not for a hundred or five, but for €1025 per month it is here, today, a little further in the center of The Hague, for rent. It's mesjogge. It is actually much worse, because at the moment the housing market is perhaps the biggest inequality increaser in our country. The rising house prices mean that fewer and fewer young people are eligible for a decent, affordable home. The further reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction, the reduction of the loan space and the rapid removal of the jubelton are therefore much needed. Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank once again said this week: now is the time for further reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. The question is whether the Minister agrees with him and with me, even when it comes to the lending area and the jubelton, as the CNV young people also advocate. How does the Minister intend to combat the growing inequality in the housing market? That's not just a job for his BZK colleague, is it? Isn't that also a task of the Minister of Finance? Mr. Chairman. As a matter of fact, that brings me to the housing corporations. For years they have been used by the government as a kind of ATM, as a problem rather than a solution for housing, livingability and community spirit. The specific point I want to make today is that the freezing of rents forced by the Chamber is going to be a bigger gap than the compensation requested by the Chamber. After the motion-Beckerman c.s. and the motion-Nijboer c.s. The Minister pays EUR 150 million for housing corporations, while the rent freeze provides for a structural deficit of EUR 180 million. That's not neat, it's not proper and it's not orderly. Where are the housing corporations supposed to magic the remaining 30 million every year? Should they cut back on maintenance, sustainability or building new affordable homes? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that I am considering a motion on this point. This concludes this first term in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u46	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u47	Mr. Chairman. In shipping, anchors are very important. My first question to the Minister of Finance is whether he understands the need for anchors. I am not talking about shipping anchors, of course, but about financial anchors. I believe that they will ensure that we continue to pursue or resume sound financial policies. Mr. Chairman. This spring note contains a lot of proposals, very important proposals on the settlement of the premium affair, on Groningen and so on. There are still a lot of pressing issues on the table, but as far as the SGP is concerned, this should not be a reason to pick up the financial anchors or not to re-eject them. In 2019, the salmon standard was already released by increasing spending above the agreed ceilings. This spring note does not adhere to the budgetary frameworks either. My questions to the Minister are therefore as follows. How is he going to restore the trend in fiscal policy? And does he see the importance of financial frameworks and, above all, the need to abide by them? In other words, when does he throw out the financial anchor again, or does he show that empty coffin on Finance again, as Mrs Van Dijk pointed out? I would very much like a comprehensive answer to that. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet intends to terminate the support package from the fourth quarter onwards. Meanwhile, the cabinet will keep its finger on the wrist. I think that's very good. But even without a virus revival, it is only a question of whether specific sectors can suddenly get rid of the public infusion. I would like an undertaking from the Minister of Finance that the future of a support package will also look at tailor-made work for specific sectors. I am referring, for example, to the catering industry, which still suffers from the 1.5 metres, the coach industry, congress centers, and I am sure there are many more. I'd like a response to that. I also understood that the conversation with group accommodations, which was requested by the SGP per motion, did not result in anything. For those group accommodations, it would be very important to consider the turnover from the annual accounts instead of the turnover from the VAT figures before the Meeting. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to adapt it. Mr. Chairman. Money is now being drawn from the budget reserve for renewable energy for something I do not think it is intended for. My questions to the Minister are as follows. Does the Minister also see that the pot of SDE money is well-stocked for regular SDE expenditure? And why is it not chosen to reduce the rates? We know that, for example, greenhouse horticulture has had a huge increase in the burden of filling that SDE pot. If the rate does not go down, can the Minister promise me that the reserve will now be used only for what it is intended for, and not to tie up the ends of a budget? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the changes to the Defense Department. They're only limited. As far as I am concerned, more money is being spent in the forthcoming budget, for example for the maintenance of buildings. I recently tabled a motion on this subject during the debate on responsibility, which was fortunately adopted, despite a negative opinion from the cabinet. The reaction to this motion and its interpretation still disappoints me a little. The cabinet seems to be putting it on the long track and linking it to half-yearly reports. Fine to be kept up to date, but the motion I tabled and which was adopted really calls for more. In that motion, the Chamber asked for the resources needed to re-establish the state of the real estate to be understood before the defence budget was discussed. I would very much like a confirmation from the Minister that we will get that statement before the defence budget is discussed. Finally, Mr President. The city finances. For next year, more than 1.3 billion more has been allocated. This cabinet has already allocated a number of occasional funds for structural problems. My question is: how do these occasional solutions relate to the structural problems? I am thinking of these enormous challenges for municipalities on the basis of the Climate Agreement. I have a specific point on road safety. The Strategic Plan on Road Safety raised 100 million for municipalities for the first tranche, which expires at the end of 2021. But Corona, among other things, is threatening to delay these road safety projects, which jeopardises funding and very good, important road safety projects that could bring down the number of road deaths and victims, perhaps not even continue. My final question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to extend the period of use of those road safety measures and projects until 2022. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u48	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The spring note is a bulky document as a way of getting to the Millions note. 2021 was indeed a major year for our entire economy, as the Minister wrote. I welcome his observation that there is light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately, for many companies the lights went out. That's too bad. Many talk about "the" climate, especially here, but the investment climate is also very important. A good investment climate is a leap towards more investment. Therefore, the burden on businesses and the tax burden on citizens should not be disproportionate. And I don't find enough of that in this Spring note. That gives me some doubt. Between 2010 and 2020, the tax burden has already increased from 35.2% to 39.2%. And the question is, where are we going now? At first glance, the damage to government is not so bad compared to other countries in the euro area. The Dutch government debt rises from just under 50% of GDP to 60%. This increase is much greater in France, Italy and Greece. The Netherlands is exactly on the EMU standard, and that with a triple A, so we can congratulate ourselves. However, there are three factors that I am afraid of. Firstly, the cost of climate policy. These create new charges and increase existing ones. Energy transition requires high costs, while companies are becoming increasingly dependent on subsidies. I think competition is getting in the way. This climate policy looks like a planned economy. Can the Minister estimate the cost of the energy transition and the impact on the tax burden for citizens? Is electricity a luxury product in the Netherlands, as in Germany? Moreover, the Spring paper lacks the announced cost of the CO levy for our industry. Can the Minister explain to me why the cost of the CO levy, which will impose additional burdens on our industry from 2021 onwards, has not always been calculated in a model? The second factor is increased immigration. In 2019, more than 100,000 people emigrated to the Netherlands. A recently published study by Dr Jan van de Beek of the University of Amsterdam, Borderless Care State, showed that the cost of immigration between 1995 and 2019 was about 400 billion euros. This is an enormous amount, especially through the redistribution of the welfare state. That goes up to 20 billion a year. 400 billion, that's as much as our gas revenues, and almost as high as our sovereign debt. And in the period 2020-2040, it provides for a total cost of 600 billion. How are we gonna pay for that? Is the Minister familiar with this study? And is he prepared to incorporate the costs of immigration more clearly and more visibly into the Millions Note? Thirdly, there is the Eurosystem. The Netherlands is subject to guarantees and commitments amounting to EUR 245 billion. This was recently demonstrated by the General Court's study "Corona crisis: the risks of guarantees and loans to public finances." The EU Emergency Fund contains an amount of 800 billion, which the Commission lends, with the Netherlands guaranteeing 43 billion. Can the Minister tell me what happens if some countries cannot or do not want to repay the borrowed money? Will the Netherlands, as it is called in German, be bitten "zur Kasse"? A final factor, ladies and gentlemen, in the Eurosystem is the low interest rate of the ECB. It thrives on savers, aggravated by the gripping Tax Administration, and causes an overheated housing market through real estate inflation that is driven forward for two elements: low interest rates and high immigration. As far as inflation is concerned, I fear an increase due to increased consumption after the corona crisis and increased taxes. That is why my final question is: how does the Minister see the development of inflation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u50	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that Peter R. de Vries was shot. I wish him a lot of strength and his family a lot of strength. I find it really horrible that in this country, after a lawyer has been shot, a journalist is now being shot. I don't know any more details, but I do think you'll probably find it very bad news for our country as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u52	I fully agree with what you have said, and I think the Minister too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u53	So I'm gonna do it from my paper anyway, while I had tried to learn it slightly by heart. 'Cause I'm a little worked up. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with two things that stand out in this dossier as a relatively new Member of Parliament. One. Why aren't our spending better linked to what we need to do, namely to tackle the greatest challenge of our time, the climate? It's an embarrassment that a courtway is needed to work on this at last. We too, as a small country, have a duty, a duty, which we have imposed on ourselves by signing the Paris Agreement. Why can't I see that more clearly in our budget cycle? In addition to this major, threatening global crisis, we have many national challenges, which we can only solve with more money, a different budget and better funding. I am thinking in particular of education. Second. The other thing that strikes me is the budgetary cycle. A four-year cycle is only a cycle for a political household booklet. That would be good if you believed in the e.g. the Netherlands, where we do not have citizens but short-term shareholders. But that is not the case. We must dare to budget for several generations. This is a matter of political unwillingness. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Mr. Chairman. I like to listen to economists as Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz. Stiglitz often shows that the climate crisis is going to cause an even greater financial crisis unless we take timely and ambitious measures. The cost of climate change is the threat now, but not only from this century, but also from then on. But I don't read and feel that in the spring note. Nor do I feel and read about other subjects in which, actually, this year, additional investments should have taken place. I have just mentioned education, but I am also thinking of the housing market, the labour market, property inequality and cybersecurity. Mr. Chairman. Afterwards you look a cow in the ass, so let's look ahead, beyond temporary spending on a next corona wave, beyond speculation on unemployment rates and beyond incidental resources for the National Education Programme. This spring note does not contain structural investments for such things as basic research, education, teacher shortage, innovation, energy transition, climate, health prevention, opportunity and property inequality and housing, but that is what the Netherlands needs in the short term. How would the Minister take this into account in the next budgets? Does the Minister also see, for example, the possibility of more large-scale pricing of CO damage, i.e. outside the sectors covered by the current ETS? No occasional changes or expenditure, but investments that have long-term effects on wider prosperity: that is what the Netherlands needs. Volt wants the underlying choices to be clear and not just made because it happens to be the result of the average in a purchasing power calculation model, which no ordinary citizen meets, or just the citizens who are already doing well. We don't want tape for parents' kids who can give a ton, pure and alone so they can outbid a house. Volt wants a plan to build more housing in a sustainable way. We do not want to help more people to pay for more expensive, more expensive, more expensive houses, increasing the debt burden for everyone but still not enough housing. Volt wants more structural investment in education and basic research, so that quality goes up, kids get out of school who can just read, write, compute and program, and everyone, no matter where you were born, can start the new Home delivery company, ASML or another innovative company, the basis on which our economy of the future is built. This requires sound education and research. Does the Minister agree with Volt and the VSNU that the plans to be submitted to the RRF should include a significant part for education, research and innovation, as Germany, Denmark, Finland and Austria have done? Can the Minister reflect on this and answer? Mr. Chairman. Volt wants clarity about the choices that are made where we grant subsidies in the form of tax rebates through all tax regimes. The total revenue of the government should be reviewed and discussed here in the Chamber. The jubelton and many other issues have only increased inequality. The Court of Auditors was also unable to comment on this. Isn't it time to introduce income discipline in addition to expenditure discipline? 116 schemes have lost 111 billion in income. None of the tax schemes complied with the review framework used by the Ministry of Finance in the introduction of new and evaluation of existing tax schemes. Can the Minister reflect on this? I've asked before, but I keep asking. Finally, Mr President. I am not going to ask the Minister if he agrees with me that there should be structural investment, because then he very kindly refers me to the table where the formation is still going on and I do not want to disturb it, because it is already going so slowly there. However, I would like to ask the Minister how this Spring Note relates to the Broad Prosperity Monitor and how the effects of this Spring Note should be weighed for the longer term wide-ranging prosperity development. In my opinion, a motion has already been adopted in 2018 requesting that the Monitor Brede Prosperity be used more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u54	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Alkaya. That is also his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u55	Interesting that Volt's economist and Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz cites. Indeed, he has very good analyses, not only when it comes to climate, but also, for example, when it comes to inequality. In 2016 he wrote a very good book about the euro. He said: the euro should have brought countries together, but on the contrary, it has driven countries apart and made Member States grow apart, because their economies are very different. Does Volt also share that analysis of Stiglitz, or only selectively certain analyses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u56	You haven't known me long enough, but if you get to know me better, you'll see more often that Stiglitz is a so-called economist. Volt is also critical of how the euro was introduced. The euro has not yet been perfected. But Volt absolutely believes that we should continue to perfect the euro. The differences between countries in the euro area have unfortunately been increased by the introduction of the euro. I'm not denying that. But I am absolutely not going to cooperate in breaking up the euro. I believe that Stiglitz also describes in that book, which is that there is still a possibility of completing the euro. Then we have a powerful currency that is going to give our European geopolitics the strength in the force field between America and China. And I think Stiglitz says the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u57	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u58	Thank you. I would like to echo Mrs Gündoğan's words. Nice talk. Apparently, we live in a society where threats and shooting each other are normal. That is indeed very sad. I'd like to have said the same thing. Mr President, dear citizens of the Netherlands. When dealing with the Spring Note, we look back on the implementation of the current year's budget and look forward to the rest of the year that is yet to come. The Netherlands has shown that we are likely to get out of the well faster than neighbouring countries. The Dutch economy recovers much faster than expected from the corona crisis, De Nederlandsche Bank recently wrote. Even if the vaccines do not work properly against new variants of the virus, the Netherlands will not end up in recession again. There seems to be no need to pump extra billions into the economy. For this scenario, however, it is essential that all the corona measures be phased out and not returned. What have we learned from the past year before? It's not a question of whether there's money, it's whether we choose to spend something. What are the priorities? Is the priority given to setting up a test society of EUR 1.1 billion each year? Or are the priorities for continuing investment in care to ensure that there is sufficient care in the future? Can the Minister tell us how structural investments are being made in our care? Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, I have found that we do not have three but four basic necessities: one, food, two, water, three, oxygen and four, care. Last year there was an applause for the care, but when thanks to Femke Merel van Kooten there was a care bonus, I would like to mention her here; unfortunately she was not allowed to return to the Chamber of Commerce, but at the second time care bonus had to be dimmed about its level and about whether everyone was entitled to it. There were two options: either the bonus was €500 net for care workers who worked a lot with corona and therefore had a lot of absenteeism or there was a bonus for all care workers. In the latter case, the amount involved was between €200 and €240. If the first option was chosen, people in disability care, ggz or youth care would not receive any extra money. Care isn't a cow business. The concern is our best horse of stealing that deserves the reward they have been promised. Then our food makers, also one of the sectors that kept our country going during corona, Mr. Alkaya. Without farmers, the packers and the garbagemen, for whom I have a great deal of respect, had no food and could not do their job at all, because they had to take care of their own food. Because food doesn't grow in a jar. Farmers didn't go into a lockdown, they kept feeding us. Apart from toilet paper, we didn't lack anything, even during the first period of hamsters, hamsters, hamsters. Tomorrow there will be a farm protest on the Malieveld, not because farmers are against rules, not because farmers do not want to move, but because farmers, and now farmers and organic farmers, too, are being declared undesirable. Farmers protest because they are afraid that they will no longer have the right to exist from this government. Under the guise of a climate statement, nitrogen and nature, they are chased off their land. Their country. Not my country, not your country, your country. Property, often for many generations in the family. And those farmers and gardeners don't make shit for AliExpress, they make one of our four basic necessities: food. But this government and possibly the next coalition want to spend billions to expropriate farmers. Expropriation! Nothing climate, nothing nature, just to buy cheap agricultural land to sell it as expensive agricultural land to construction, for 1 million homes where nearly 3 million people then come to live. And all these people have to eat. They're gonna need roads, they're gonna drive, they're gonna build tile gardens. Gone green, hello gray! And what does that do for the climate and nature around the world? I understand the Minister cannot answer that question, but can the Minister tell us how much money is on the shelf to drive our food makers away? And what are we going to do to compensate those EUR 10 billion farmers contribute to the economy, for example? And what are we going to do with the 300,000 jobs that our livestock farming offers directly and indirectly? Finally, Mr President. Let us also invest money in our other SMEs and family businesses. Less bureaucratic rules, less nonsense cost-increasing laws, more tax benefits for the young generations who want to take over the family business. Let us keep our manufacturing industry and not wave them abroad, because the costs here are too high due to laws and regulations. We need them very much in the future, not only to get our budgets, but above all to keep the Netherlands viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u59	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about five minutes to prepare himself. So that's pretty short. I'll give the room five minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u60	I give the floor to the Minister. Perhaps the Minister could also indicate exactly how he is going to answer the questions and when he gives his appreciation, looking at the amendments tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Let me go along with the two last speakers, who referred to really terrible reports that have been received. Of course, we don't know what the deal is, but whatever the deal is, this is unimaginable and terrible news. In mind, of course, we are with all those who are concerned and who are very sad about this. I say this, and I say it this way too, because the Minister of Justice will react formally at a later date, when everything is clearer about the situation. But I also find it strange to stand here as a member of the cabinet, with what we have already read, where we are all very shocked and also have all kinds of emotions, not to say anything about it at all, so that's why I'm doing it a little overwhelming. Mr. Chairman. Then we have to move on to the more prosaic side of life. I would like to begin by thanking the Members of your Chamber very much for all the comments made, all the precision and also all the questions that have been put in my direction. The spring note does indeed wash up many referred to it in special circumstances here at the House of Representatives. There is a lot to be said about this when it comes to the content, which of course has to do with corona and also with the missionary status of the cabinet, which, of course, also limits what you would like to solve, but I will come back to that in detail in a moment. Mr Nijboer and others referred to the fact that we have spent exceptionally much money to pursue last year's lines and to ensure with support and recovery policies that as many Dutch people as possible have kept their jobs and that as many entrepreneurs as possible have been able to cross the street with good decency. They have been able to bridge it from the beginning of the crisis to what we hope will of course be the end of the crisis, where that end always turns out to be farther away than we might have thought a few weeks earlier. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to do it with your permission as follows. I'll start with a block on the macro-economics. Then I'll do the corona crisis, then public finances and budget law, then social task and then other. You and the Members will realise that these blocks are very much intertwined, by the way, but I am going to try to use some structure. Where you or Members do not like it, I am undoubtedly being called to order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u62	I do have one more question. Do you do the amendments at the end or in between by block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u63	I thought I'd do it in second term, but if you want it in the first term, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u64	You can do it in second term, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u65	If it's okay with you, I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u66	Second term, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u67	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start with the macro-economics. Many have referred to it. You always make up the state of the crop, of course. There are two things that always stand out. The first is that there are enormous fluctuations in our estimates. When I say 'our', I mean that of the cabinet, that of the planning agency and of De Nederlandsche Bank, and by the way of all kinds of European rams. That shows, of course, what an exceptional time we are in. I can remember a debate, I believe in the first Navy note, but it may have been in the spring 2018 note, when I think Mr Snels or Mr Nijboer asked me no longer how the estimates of the Ministry of Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank differed by 0.1 percentage points and how exactly that was in the estimate. I do not think Mr Nijboer recognizes it. Then it must have been Mr Snels; he is also gloating. Of course, that also had to do with the type of predictions we made back then. Now you see much larger fluctuations. We all know what that's all about. The second, which is extremely good news, is that the foundations of the Dutch economy have also proved very strong in this crisis. Many have referred to this. And yes, it's attractive to think that we've really done that with each other in The Hague a number of things have probably been handled wisely, even afterwards, but first of all it says something about the enormous work and the enormous resilience of Dutch society and economy. Think of all those companies that have tried to, and managed to, get through this crisis as well as possible. The Members who referred to this and said that many of the figures seem even better, even after we have sent the Spring Note to the Chamber, are quite right. In fact, I said earlier that it was a few weeks ago that my expectation was that we would have a spectacularly good summer, with a very positive effect on employment, the economy and public debt. Of course, we all hope that this trend will continue in Q3, Q4 and next year. Mr Van Dijck asked me how high inflation would have been if house prices were taken into account. Inflation is rising sharply this year, i.e. to 2%. I understand very well that that leads to questions again. However, this 2% is still at the ECB's target level and is not so much worrying. House prices are not included in the inflation rate, because inflation is about the price increase of consumer goods. So I cannot provide some kind of alternative calculation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck also asked Mr Van Dijck, rightly and consistently, to pay more attention to purchasing power. By the way, we took a very big step in that direction, especially two years ago. Last year, I think, the subject was much less focused, because then we really had other concerns on our minds. The outgoing cabinet will also review purchasing power at this Prince's Day. I do not rule out the fact that, apart from this static purchasing power, it is going to be at least as important in the next phase as we are to maintain employment and that dynamic purchasing power, especially at this time, is relevant. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alkaya asked about the BIK and exploiting the budgetary space created by the deletion of the BIK for higher care salaries. Well indeed I had noticed that the BIK was not the subject... Politically he could get out of his way with it, but it was not the subject matter he felt most related to. The cabinet has repeatedly argued here that care professionals should really receive a good salary for the important work they do for us all day and night. At the same time, we have always said that we have not only taken measures specifically for corona, but that, when it comes to a multiannual perspective, we must also look at what is at all wage developments in healthcare. It follows the trend of the market and often even slightly exceeds that trend. I'll talk to the Secretary of State at VWS. The cabinet is therefore not in favour of using the funds earmarked for the BIK for higher care salaries. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya also asked about the consequences of lowering the AWf premium. Those lower premiums will, of course, lead to lower premium revenues in 2021. A lower AWf premium is intended to support employers and thereby provide them with additional liquidity. Moreover, the level of the AWf premium is generally non-recoverable. This is determined by the Minister of SZW, inter alia for the purpose of burden development. A capital deficit in the fund is then supplemented by a State contribution. This also clearly means that a lower AWf premium does not affect employees. That might have been, as I understood, his underlying concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u68	That raises a question from Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u69	We are, of course, dealing with a fund where employers pay a premium every year. That's going down. Does this mean that the government is already compensating for this by filling that fund? Or does the government compensate for this only in the future, should that fund prove inadequate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u70	At least that last thing. I should look very closely at it, because it is a fund that the Minister of SZW is about. In order to be able to give an answer to that question with all precision, I would like to double-check it. If Mr Alkaya will allow me to do so, I might do so in the second term, if there is any need to supplement it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the macrobuffers. That is a very valid point. Actually, she was asking about two things. She asked about the buffers of households and companies. It argued that there are too few buffers and that they are needed. I very much share that. This applies to households. We have an exceptional situation in the Netherlands, of course, because if you look at the European images, you can see that Dutch households have a relatively high level of debt. There is also relatively much property or property opposite. We have relatively many inhabitants with a merchant house. So there is something to say, but it is still a vulnerability of the Dutch economy. The second point is at least as striking. If you look at Dutch business, you can see that there has been even more participation in the trend that is taking place around the world, that of high corporate debt. That too is a vulnerability. That is not something I can solve with this Spring paper, but that does require our attention. Because it's cheap to borrow money. Borrowing money is also a way for companies to do business. It is also one of the engines on which an economy operates, namely that others want to make money available to a company, then a company can invest in it and make a profit, thereby contributing not only to its own wallet, but also to the economy and society. At the same time, however, over-indebtedness certainly entails risks. Moreover, this has already inspired the cabinet to take a number of steps in the previous budget. Think also of the fiscal measures taken by the Secretary of State at the time. It is true that more needs to be done in this area. I very much agree with Mrs Van Dijk. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going from real macro to the corona crisis. Mr Van Dijck asked what the cabinet is doing about the debts of entrepreneurs. It's a bit of an echo of a debate we've had before. I have argued before that if you look at what we have given extra fiscal space, which might be a middle ground between... it is more than just a support policy; this is typically something that is also a real recovery policy. We have considerably expanded some of those arrangements, if you compare them to a few months ago. This means that entrepreneurs have a very broad opportunity to repay debts. We firmly believe that the vast majority of entrepreneurs will be able to repay those debts. If you look at the projections of today, you can see that I'm doing it from my head, that that share is way above 90%; I even believe that it's 93%, 94% or 95%. Then you also have companies that may unhopedly end up in a difficult situation. The Secretary of State for Finance is going to look specifically, including other debtors, how to deal with them. But extending that package is, I am sure, very important in order to significantly improve the situation surrounding the discharge of debts by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u71	I read that the ESB will come forward tomorrow with a forecast of companies that have underestimated their turnover losses and are likely to have to repay a very large part of the aid they have received with the TVL and the NOW. That comes on top of the tax delay, the delay in rents and supplier accounts and all the other debts they have incurred. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to treat that debt, which is too much received, as generously as that tax delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u72	That in itself is a good problem to have, if I may put it that way. If you've thought "this is going to go completely wrong; I'm now making a preliminary estimate that I'm going to suffer a 40%, 50% loss of revenue" and then you come to the conclusion that in the quarter that you requested this support you may have suffered only 20% or 30% loss of revenue, then that still has a big impact, but it's much more manageable. Of course, you'll need a lot less support. Frankly, the entrepreneurs I am talking to and those who have to do with this situation are very satisfied with that. They often say: in retrospect, I have just put it too pessimisticly, because it was not so bad. That is where I would really like to follow the path of normal reckoning, even because these companies have a smaller rather than a bigger problem. You want to zoom in with these tax measures on companies that are looking at such a huge amount of debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u73	Then I wonder what the Minister has learned from the child care allowance affair. That's where exactly the same thing happened. First, generous money was given on the basis of estimates. Then they try to get the money back, while the money is gone. Many companies have had tens of thousands, perhaps tons of NOW and TVL aid. In retrospect, this may not have been as necessary as people estimated at the time, but the question is whether they have that money on the shelf. If you are going to say that it has to go back within a year, as with the child care allowance affair, then you have a chance that those companies will still be in very big trouble, because they have used that money differently or have closed holes because they were closed anyway. There was a column today in the FD that said: "Be careful that you don't fall into the same trap with that corona support as with the child care allowance affair, so that you first give generous money and then try to get it back with bailiffs." Then you cut your fingers again, just like with the child care allowance affair, so that a company still gets into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u74	In itself, of course, I would like to agree with warnings that you should be careful not to put the horse behind the cart. I would like to highlight that this is really something else, a different file, than that horrible child care allowance affair, even if you look at what went wrong there. Mr Van Dijck is right; there is a great vulnerability at the front of a system in which you make money available and which later, often on the basis of a bad title, went back. That is not the case here, so that is already a fundamental difference. But, of course, many more things have really gone wrong on that dossier, and I do not see that we are getting anywhere near a repetition of it. By the way, of course, we will always be watching this. At a time when companies themselves state that this is complicated, they quickly get into the last 3%, 4% or 5% that I mentioned, which the Secretary of State is looking into anyway. However, I would like to stress that those companies that have underestimated it too pessimisticly and therefore have to take more account of it, are generally very satisfied with it. I am also looking at all the entrepreneurs I am talking about because they have just done much better than they themselves expected. Mr. Chairman. As a result, Mrs Van Dijk's question lies, but the situation as she has pointed out is even more acute. She asked how to deal with companies that have received corona aid and have not needed it or even made more profit. Do these companies still need the funds? She asked me how I see it. Mr Koolmees and I have said here several times that these are two things that you want to put your hand in hand with. Anyone who needs it or who needs it is very well-off. It was intended for these companies. So we have done something extraordinary, something very unorthodox, by making money available on the front with relatively few checks-and-balances due to speed. Even though we knew in advance that in some cases this would be too generous, I will stand for the correctness, in itself, given the alternatives, of the choice I made then together with Eric Wiebes and Wouter Koolmees. So it's the companies that really needed it and still need it very much awarded, because that's what it was meant for. On the other hand, that is what Koolmees said here, as I said here, and that is what I said in discussions with the social partners and in the media: anyone who is not entitled to it in the spirit of the law should not want to keep it. There have been several spokesmen, from very different quarters of the Chamber, who have cited the example of Auping. The VVD spokesperson, I think the PvdA spokesperson, the CDA spokesperson, and then I'll probably skip a few more. That's not how it's done. Because it's really not reasonable for you, if you've made almost as much profit or even more profit, if you've actually had an excellent year, to think: you know, it actually suits me well. No, that's not what the money was for. That money was raised by people with modal incomes, by all of us. That money is not political, that money is not mine, that money was not intended for this and that money is taxpayers' money. Our duty is to spend it or not, or to spend it with care. So I'm gonna repeat that call, too. If companies have made use of the legal title but, in spirit, they are not entitled to it, then they should simply repay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u75	Mr Van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u76	That's another moral appeal from the CDA or this minister. He'll get no further than a call. But it is normal for you as a legislative authority to say "listen, if you had more annual turnover in 2020 than in 2019, then you are obliged to send it back"? Isn't that a little change in the law? Like ING Hammers, you come with a moral call of "don't take that bonus." What good are all these moral calls?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u77	We had former Secretary of State Harbers and a bank manager named Hamers, by the way, not to be confused with Mrs Hamer. In the various parts of that case you have seen that a moral appeal from the Chamber, from the Cabinet, has indeed worked. It's important to mark. It's too easy to pretend it has no value. See also what the Chamber itself has done. See also what Minister Koolmees did in that case of Booking. It requires a few exchanges of views and a few debates, but without legislation on that bonus, that has ended as the Cabinet and the Chamber considered reasonable. So I guess a moral apple really matters. That's one. Two. What is not possible and what I consider to be sensible in itself is that we are going to change the arrangements afterwards. So you're saying that we're going to change the scheme now, because that just doesn't take ownership. At the same time, I think it is very logical that you should say: bring that money here, because that is taxpayers' money and that was not intended for this purpose. There are political parties, and I cannot say too much about this in this role, which have spoken more broadly about matters such as a solidarity levy. And there are a lot of parties here that have a tax increase in their programme for business. Those things, of course, are interrelated. But it is not for me, as the outgoing Minister of Finance, to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u78	Thank you. Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u79	It's about me having a lame call, a moral appeal of "give back that money." Then you use tough language, as if they had to give it back. You say, "I call on them to give that back." No, they don't have to give anything back. Coincidentally Booking.com, because we have indeed debated this with the entire Chamber for hours. And with Mr. Hammers exactly the same. Yes, but I haven't seen Mr. Van Lienden return any of that crook's money. What matters is this. You're a legislator. You'll get no further than a moral apple. Say it from now on: if you want to qualify for the third quarter and your turnover is more than in 2019 in 2021, then you have to pay back. You're not doing anything about it. You're being tough, but you're getting no further than a moral apple. 99% of the companies think: well, thank you Minister for your moral appeal, but I'm not going to return anything, why should I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u80	I'm gonna start counting my blessings. In any case, Mr Van Dijck agrees with the moral appeal. He actually wants to raise the bar even higher. I might also remind him that one of the English translations of the word 'lawmaker' is 'lawmaker'. This shows that not only the Cabinet, but also the Chamber is the legislator. So he would be inspired by this debate to come up with legislation, then of course we are going to look seriously at it as a cabinet. At the same time, I have to say that now we are doing something with retroactive effect which is really difficult to do with ownership... Another sidetrack: see also the discussion we have had here about, for example, the clawback. I would be in favour of that in substance, but the Council of State has said that this is really complicated, because ownership is one of the foundations of our society. Well, you'll have to take that into account. Let me now turn to the final point. We have indeed looked at this as a cabinet, and I will not hide it either, if we could not change the legal title in the third aid package, so that that third aid package was linked to, for example, annual turnover. In the end, I am sorry to say that this has not been possible. I would find it reasonable that if you make 90%, 95%, 100%, maybe 105% of your annual turnover, you cannot get any support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u81	I don't think you'll come back to another question from me in this little block. I have also outlined a number of situations which are not customised, but which are very poignant. I asked if there were any solutions to this. That may not belong in this debate, but I appointed it in my first term, so I also like getting an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u82	Will Mrs Van Dijk be okay if I just finish the different folders? If I did give her an omission gift, I'm gonna try to fix it. In my view, I also answered the question in her direction through the exchange of views with Mr Van Dijck on companies that do not need the aid. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group was enthusiastic about Europe, or at least about the billions that could be achieved there. For the reasons and logic of the Recovery Fund, I would like to refer them to the various debates which the Prime Minister in particular has had. I would like to refer once again to my commitment to come forward in the autumn with thoughts on the Recovery Fund and the Dutch contribution if there is still no serious information. Because then, of course, we'll have to relate to each other once in a while. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer has asked me to make a commitment that the future of the aid package will also look at tailor-made work for specific sectors. Let me begin with the fact that the cabinet really assumes it, given the very high vaccination rate that we have achieved in the meantime, hopefully it will be significantly higher in a month or two, three years from now, that a generic aid package is really no longer needed. I would very much like to congratulate society, the economy, all the entrepreneurs and all the workers. At the same time, we have always said: we keep our finger on the wrist. You may also wonder if there are specific sectors that are going to get into trouble again. Then you also come into the discussion to what extent you feel that you have a duty of care in the long term. Blok had that conversation with the Chamber in the last debate we had with the three of us in the Chamber. That's gonna have to weigh you carefully. That will feel different in Q4 again than a year ago and in another year it will feel different again. What are you doing, for example, in my opinion, he also gave this example with a travel agency which in recent years has continued to focus on those areas in the world where vaccination is going to be the last? Do you think that something that also has a role to play for the government, given what we did at corona? Or do you actually think that that's more a matter of how you normally deal with a serious local infectious disease that the government doesn't say: we bring that business risk to us? We both see there's something to say for both sides. We will then have to do this fairly with each other, with the cabinet's commitment to helping entrepreneurs, of course, standing up. At the same time we are going to talk about Van Dissel for a moment after an epidemic to something much more endemic, which will stay with us much longer in a variant, but which is not so pregnant that society should close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u83	In itself, this is a clear answer from the Minister. Thank you for that. Perhaps for clarity's sake, it's not about helping sectors for a long time because they actually have to start doing different things. But a number of sectors, which we are not going to split up completely now, may need a little bit longer because the effects are after-falling. It's the customization that matters to me. International conferences, for example, start a bit later. I am not here to name specific sectors, but I would ask that the ship not sink just before the end of the port. When I hear the minister like that, I'm guessing the cabinet is looking at that specifically. My question is: let us not be too short. If we agree on that, then we don't have to spout it out to the last thing. Let us look at the situation again in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u84	I very much agree with the latter. I honestly think, if you're watching the movie for the past three, four, five months, we haven't been too short. You could argue rather that the situation is now and at least two or four weeks ago because of our system, with which we always try to announce something for a few weeks, much more florissant than we might have imagined three months ago. You've seen that the number of infections, and certainly the number of hospitalizations and ICU admissions, has gone down. A lot of entrepreneurs are back on track. That's really different from when we spoke in mid-April. So it can happen very quickly. So I don't think we stopped there too soon. I would almost like to say: quite the contrary. I can see that Mr Stoffer has a point: there may be sectors that may need longer support. I think that you should look very closely at where that is reasonable, under what conditions that is reasonable and whether there is a role for the government. Those are all questions that will come again. Especially in the case of home affairs, in order not to create confusion in the terminology: things that are happening in the interior are my hope, by the way, that what we are doing now, namely by means of tests even very large events, could actually in many cases find a practical solution. I'll add that two-week period to that. Then Mr Stoffer and I can go back to the Escape somewhere in the middle of the summer. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at block c, public finances and budget law. Mr Heinen made a number of comments that should be taken from the heart by the Minister of Finance, which related to financial discipline: there is always a shortage of money and you also have the choice not to spend the money, because every euro you want to spend will also have to be collected first. And who's gonna pay for that? Well, our companies and our residents. So I was very much in agreement with that. I also very much agree with him that once you have made budgetary agreements and yet want some extras, it is perfectly logical to see how you can adjust a sleeve to that in the form of cover. I think that's an excellent basic logic. I have also regularly practiced this with colleagues in the cabinet. So I was very much in agreement with that. He also asked if you could in one way or another gain more insight into the consideration. He specifically mentioned the Spring Note. I understand that thought. I'd like to study how that's supposed to be. By the way, we already provide quite a lot of information about choices made by the cabinet. What is complicated, though, is that I am thinking above all of my colleagues in the cabinet, Mr President, in order to get all kinds of documents out in preparation for the budget negotiations. 'Cause what do you get? Then you get a trade minister who afterwards did better or less well in the eyes of his own spokesmen or who perhaps did not bring up a subject at all, perhaps for sensible reasons. If you know that all that is on the street, you know one thing for sure: then everyone is going to include it in their positions. That could be lengthy discussions in the spring. But I do not think Mr Heinen was religious at all in how it should be. He asked me more if I wanted to study on that, and I'd like to give him my word. I should also like to add that these talks, both this and the previous spring rounds, have not, or have hardly, taken place. There is a romantic idea of very long negotiations. That process took place in 2018 and 2019 just along the normal path. By the way, some of my colleagues only drank coffee and were outside in ten minutes. Other colleagues needed a little more time. But we haven't done it for the past two years: not last year because of corona and the exceptional situation that occurred at the time, and this time we have just been able to finish a lot quite simply. Because the cabinet was decommissioned, we did put a lot of expenditure in the budget. This spring note, as many speakers have pointed out, is, of course, curiously politically rich for a outgoing cabinet. It is largely on corona, but it is also on matters such as the childcare allowance and a number of other necessities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u85	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Snels; on decision-making papers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u86	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. You saw him coming. It was a good suggestion from Mr Heinen; I told him that in his interruption. But as of 1 July, the new policy line of the cabinet has entered into force. Of course, it does not apply to this Spring paper yet, but as I read the cabinet's policy line, that was, of course, the Prime Minister's commitment: we are going to make it all public. For important policy proposals and legislative proposals, standard decision papers are now sent to the Chamber. I would therefore be happy to give the Minister the opportunity to study it again, but I would like to return a letter on how his study relates to the spring note, the autumn note and perhaps even the Millions note, who knows, relates to the cabinet appointment and the directive agreed on with regard to the decision notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u87	With all due respect for Mr Snels' comment, with whom I often come out on these more cerebral subjects, I feel more related to what Mr Heinen has said. The cabinet line is in the note of May 10th. In fact, it is deliberately a step in the right direction with regard to this type of budgetary consultation, based on the idea that it will be very complicated for directors, because they will be invited here and can then explain why, in the eyes of that particular spokesperson, they have got away with so little. Because every spokesperson wants more money. Many rulers want to see what is possible, of course, but there are also a lot of rulers who are quite realistic at such a spring round. They know what the government agreement requires and that there are financial frameworks, and that there is really no point in bringing in billions and billions of claims. But if they were to be dealt with here, then of course that would greatly increase the enthusiasm to put it to good use. So I wouldn't be for that. I also find it complicated to draw up a list of all the things that no money has gone to. That is actually a list of everything else. I don't think you should. I think I have to study what Mr Heinen asked, and it is obvious that this process should be explained at least in the next spring note to the Chamber. Then one final comment. I have to make it, Mr. Chairman, for completeness. The autumn note is, of course, a completely different thing. There is no pre-negotiation procedure. No, quite occasionally some ugliness is brushed away in that, but that's what it is. That is not typical of this cabinet, by the way. It's something Cabinets have been doing for a long time. You clean up a little bit every now and then, but you're not gonna be negotiating it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u88	I understand a lot of the dilemmas, but this is a conversation between Chamber and Cabinet. This is also about Article 68. That is the debate we had last Monday. The Chamber is entitled to a great deal of information. You know, we could get all those memos and notes. In this new policy line of the cabinet, they should also be sent to the Chamber. The only thing I am asking the Minister, in relation to what the cabinet has promised and in relation to the directive, the decisions and the decision notes sent to the Chamber, is: look again, and share with the Chamber how this could be done in the spring paper in particular. And then I'll give the Minister plenty of room to think about how he wants to deal with his dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u89	But then we'll get back to Mr. Heinen's waters. I don't mean that we're in front of him, but that we're back on track with those red and those green balls that I'd like to sail through. And then I interpret what Mr Snels says as follows. The cabinet will take with it what you could do here in the area of transparency in a forthcoming spring negotiation. The good news is that it's gone for a while, and before that it doesn't seem so... Then I think it falls a bit between ship and ship, to stay in the metaphor. I just want to do that seriously, but then I would like to apply it there. That seems much more logical to me than to do in between. And again, I honestly don't feel anything for that autumn note, because it makes us really bigger and prettier than the thing is. Mr Snels recognizes that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u90	Finally, Mr President. Look, I don't want to wait for the Spring Note, because then we have to have this debate again with the Spring Note. And since we are having this debate, that is, the discussion between the Chamber and the Cabinet, under Rule 68, I would like the reflection of the Cabinet on the proposals that have now been made and which lie in the Chamber. I would like a preliminary reflection from the cabinet that may be sometime in the autumn on how to deal with policy papers such as the spring note and how the cabinet intends to deal with the provision of information to the Chamber. Because then we can have a debate on whether we are satisfied with that. Then perhaps we can also ask additional questions about or settle for the cabinet's proposals. I think it's too late if we wait until next year's spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u91	Then I shall amend the proposal in one way. I'm going to say as a wish of the Chamber that we reflect on this. That's what I'm going to pass on to the forming parties. Then we can, for example, include in the coalition agreement some of the financial agreements that are being made. As a reminder, I will put this question on the agenda of the Ministry of Finance, which should also be taken into account in the next debate on the Spring paper. Prior to that, I think you should include directors in what that process looks like. Then you have to take transparency into account. That seems to me to be more appropriate than the outgoing cabinet, in the very, very, very last stage, going to write down in October what it thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u92	Thank you. Mr Heinen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u93	Before all kinds of rulers get very nervous and start typing in financial proposals and claims right now, because they are afraid that it will all be on the streets, I still need to give a little explanation of my proposal. 'Cause it's true what the minister says. It's not about getting all the financial claims exchanged. I also see that a government should be able to spar among itself in confidence about where the problems are, where space is and where resources are to be allocated. But it is up to me, as a Chamber, to understand the current problems in the budget and the considerations made by the cabinet. When I look at the current Spring Note, money is being spent. I am not so much concerned with what this money is specifically spent on in this case, but I am concerned with the fact that it is an acute issue. At the same time, I do not hear a cabinet speaking with one voice so soon after the Spring Paper indicate that there is all acute problems. We need to understand what the acute problem is and what considerations are being made in it. I think it is right that there should be a little more transparency in this whole spring process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u94	I agree. For the record, there is, of course, a great deal of information, including on the bottlenecks, which the cabinet does make available every year. Part of this goes through the spring note and part through the debates of specialist departments. See the discussion that we have often had here, sometimes to the horror of the Chamber, about how it could be that there was, for example, a different type of problem and bottleneck in the case of Defence and I&W, namely structural under-exhaustment. The room said, "Can you speed it up?" So you do have that debate in a lot of ways, to be honest. I do not yet know exactly the answer to the question of how, but I would like to study Mr Heinen's basic question. Mr Heinen had a number of questions in this block. He asked for the amendment of the CW to ensure that all amendments were also covered. We can do that on our own, but the Chamber has budget rights. If I were to include that in the CW, that would, of course, mean a restriction on budget law. There's something to be said for that. There's something to say to that too. We would have to weigh that carefully with each other. Mr Heinen asked me to share an overview of the under-exhaustment of the Navy note. That's what I'm telling him; we'll do that. By the way, we always look at the underexhaustment that is structural in the spring. In order not to fail ourselves, this is a debate that we have had very often here when dealing with the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u95	Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u96	My hope is that Mr Heinen was always following this through a television screen. He knew exactly what he was asking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u97	Sure. I just hit budget law for a second. That's our sweetheart. But if the proposal is to provide cover, what does it do to the budget? The budget law is that you spend more or less money or shift money. The only request is: state where you get it. That doesn't affect budget law. As far as I am concerned, the parties can also submit: I take it out of the state debt, so I am losing the state debt. My point is that it now seems as if there is free money, such as: I raise certain salaries, without any consequences. I think it's fair to say where that money came from. Then a party can still submit it, but then you have a transparent debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u99	The Minister now concludes that this limits budget law...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u100	It's clear. I'd like to ask you to be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u101	I do not want to fail Mr Heinen, but as he puts it now, it is a gift for Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. They say if the sovereign debt is the cover, we'll always get that cover from now on. The same applies to all spokesmen from all political groups. It doesn't cover anything. That's how you bill the next generation. In the end, it is up to the formation or the Chamber to weigh the point I have wanted to make. In fact, I wanted to articulate that if you changed the CW so that you only work with what I call cover, namely that the money comes from somewhere else, it restricts its budget right. In addition, of course, you would also like to stick to the separation between revenue and expenditure. You can find that, weighing everything, desirable. My suspicion is that there are also parties who say: I do not want to commit an illegality, because I am stuck with the frameworks of a cabinet that I am opposed to anyway. But each party has to weigh that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u102	I would also like to ask the Minister to respond a little bit more succinctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u103	Whether it's a gift is a valuation. I have just heard the parties to which reference was made proudly say that they do have financial coverage, but they still make proposals which I personally disagree with. I do not think this affects budget law, but it makes it transparent where it comes from. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u104	Mrs Gündoğan, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u105	The state debt: I think it is very good that we are trying to get the budget around and so on. But I've been talking here before about the broad prosperity monitor and passing on a climate that's not liveable. Anyway, Klaas Knot said above, in the Thorbeckezal, I believe that is the greatest threat to our economy. If we stick to that cycle of one or four years, we won't see the effects of the choices we make. So I think it is very important that these choices should be taken into account in budgetary discipline. That is what my question to the Minister is about. Does he want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u106	Mr President, I understand from you that I need to reflect this somewhat shorter. I very much agree that you have to look at all the effects for a long year. We also do this in the state budget, because I believe all structural expenditure is in the books until 2050 or 2060. If something is structural, it also lasts a very, very, very long time. That is also where the debate that we have had in the Chamber on the sustainability of debt comes from: what does it mean in the long term? So we do. That's the first thing I'd like to say. Then the second. I come to the question that has been asked, but which I think Van Weyenberg also asked. He said something similar. He said, "Can't you bring other indicators, including broad prosperity, when you think about what the impact is?" Quite frankly, shouldn't you cover that, too? I think that cerebral is a very interesting thought. I have no idea how to do it. It's wildly complicated. In my opinion, we have taken enormous steps in recent years in the area of broad prosperity, also inspired by the Party for Animals, the Green Left and others. So we're really on that road, but I can't provide some kind of CO coverage for legislative proposals right now. I'd love to, but I don't have that option right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u107	And yet: I went this afternoon to prepare myself for this moment "Stiglitz," "debt" and "climate" Google and then 1,260,000 hits came out. There are several ways to count on much more environmental damage and effects. I would therefore like to ask a question. You can also see it in education, with those second-order effects et cetera. I mean that, in these calculations, we are going to take more account of the longer term rather than the fixation this year or four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u108	It's two things. In any case, I agree that you shouldn't just look at this year and four years from now. We do not do that when it comes to structural expenditure or revenue. Some things are, of course, incidental; you'll get rid of them in two years. Then it wouldn't make much sense to look at 2040. The second, more fundamental point is: I would like to continue with the consideration of factors that we have come to call 'wide prosperity' in legislative proposals. My estimate is that if you pull the line ten years further, there will be a debate on all kinds of indicators like this here in this Chamber, saying: "This is the budgetary impact. This is the effect for the next generation. This is the effect on the climate. This is the effect on abroad." We're gonna have that discussion. However, I do not have a prescription in the short term, other than what I put in the Millions' Note on broad prosperity, to say, for example, in one of the amendments that has been tabled, that I have also passed on the CO and this or that is the coverage. I haven't really had that opportunity right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u109	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u110	Mrs Van Dijk asked if I am already putting public finances in order by drawing up a route for this. There will be a number of important opinions at the formation table from the Budget Space Study Group, which advises in complete independence. It is recommended, among other things, that expenditure should not go uncovered. The planning agency and De Nederlandsche Bank have also advised to keep expenditure under control, sometimes with different nuances. I also think this is important, because we are already dealing with a relatively high burden. We're already dealing with an ageing population. So you will also have to keep an eye on the expenditure side of the budget. Then I heard from Mr Snels an echo of our exchange of views on the budgetary rules. I would really like to refer him to the debate we had in one of the committees. There, I think, I have once again explained in broad terms what the various elements of how I and the cabinet look at budgetary policy are. I had the impression that he was perhaps a little short of my Austrian colleague by approaching it fairly one-dimensionally. What I think is sensible in itself is that you also look at all kinds of dossiers at European level about who the like-minded countries are. Yes, and fair is fair, then it is easier for the Netherlands to go with a country like Finland or Sweden when it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact than with a country like Portugal or Spain. That's just reality, even if you include that cerebral statement I made last time. Keeping you completely away from that, I really don't think that's wise. What I will do, and I said it at the time, is that if we take steps, we will do so in close dialogue with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked if I would be willing to extend the period of use for road safety projects planned in 2021 to 2022. To my own stupid surprise, too, I read here that I can meet Mr Stoffer in this. Indeed, my colleague from IenW is already working on an adaptation of the road safety regime that allows municipalities to implement measures only in 2022. And the expectation is that this adjustment will be completed after the summer recess. Mr Grinwis asked how seriously the cabinet took the criticism of the Court of Auditors. Well, I think we paid a lot of attention to that, even on meatloaf day. We take them very seriously and start working on the imperfections. I happened to have a note in my bag today about how and in what urgent rhythm we are going to enthuse all the other departments, so we take that criticism very seriously. Mr Snels asked for a motion from his stable: a motion from Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen. The Cabinet informed the Chamber about the legal aid policy in the progress report of 30 June, and we are currently considering how we are going to implement that motion in the next few weeks as well. We'll inform the Chamber at the Millions Note about that. Mr Stoffer asked to look at the conversation with the group accommodations TVL and the use of revenue figures from the annual accounts instead of the VAT figures. That TVL is only based on quarterly figures. Advance payments received in a given quarter count as turnover. Only if the turnover is not reflected in the VAT return can you use the annual accounts. So we really need to be specific about that. Volt probably wanted to take an advance on the RRF plans and make a significant share of the money for research and education Earmarking. For the record, those RRF plans have certain requirements to meet. They're always linked. You get one wild card, but they're also connected to the CSRs, the Country Specific Recommendations, so the country specific recommendations. But we will naturally come to the Chamber with these plans. And I very much agree with her that education, and in particular innovation and research, should be given considerable attention. See also the discussions we have had on the Grondronds. I think that Mrs Gündoğan's question on linking expenditure to climate expenditure has been raised. With regard to CO-emission pricing, she asked for the following. Of course, the price is one of the tools to achieve reduction. And yes, it is clear that there will be a lot to be done in the area of climate and therefore CO in the coming period. But I don't think it would be helpful if I gave all kinds of sketches about that right now. Mr President, you want me to be brief, but it will not be up to me; it will be up to the forming parties. Then Mrs Gündoğan asked about structural investment in future generations. Very much so. We do this through, among other things, the National Growth Fund. And in the First Chamber you can always point to the ceiling, and say, "Look, there is the flower of the nation; the next generation looks down on us and looks with us." This does not mean that we always pay attention to this and not to this, but it is of course the case that we also have to keep a close eye on this house, and on the other side, and of course also on the cabinet side, on the impact on investment for future generations. I very much agree with her. Mrs van der Plas has asked about the investments in health care. Healthcare expenditure will increase from 62.6 billion in 2017 to 75.6 billion in 2021 during this cabinet period. That's the state of the spring note. That doesn't include corona expenses. Mrs. Van der Plas must have seen that. That strong growth is indeed a real focus. I very much agreed with Van Weyenberg, and I also thought Heinen, who referred to it. The art is of course that we ensure that we maintain health care, which in the Netherlands, internationally, is of very high quality, especially in the field of cure, but also in the field of care, and which is also very accessible to Dutch people, whatever they deserve and whatever their capacity position. In addition, we need to maintain its organizational capacity, because that is not yet a fact. Then you also have to make sure that the cost of care is not so high that it is at the expense of all kinds of other things that are also nice to us. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned education. I very much agree with that. But you could immediately add safety, climate and all kinds of other topics to that list. So there's just an assignment there. Mr Eppink asked about the cost of migration. I can only refer to the state budget in terms of how we keep costs. I would also like to point out to him that social costs and costs for the government are not always the same. See also the discussion we just had about broad prosperity. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the small scale investment deduction. How do I see the future, even with a view to Borstlap? Mr Borstlap is mentioned. He was also recently cited by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that Kia has no clear objective. I think it might be a little more nuanced. There is an objective, but it is not formulated quantitatively. I think there's work to be done. I agree with her and, by the way, with the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors' and Borstlap's findings should be further developed, including the fiscal balance between entrepreneurs and employees, but that is up to another cabinet. In the evergreen category, Mr Grinwis asked whether this would be an appropriate time to further reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction. Mr Heinen keeps looking at his page, so I could quickly say yes. But that's not up to this cabinet either. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to reflect on multiannual amendments. It's an understandable question. The amendments relate, of course, in principle only to the financial year. If an amendment is intended to be a multiannual one, this must be reflected in the explanatory memorandum. In that case, the debate on the net must be covered in a proper multiannual manner. On the basis of Article 2.3, fifth paragraph of the CW 2016, amendments aiming at a multi-annual transmission will also be included in the budget for the coming years. So that's how it should work. I do agree with Van Weyenberg that the Spring Paper is always a very special thing. It's a combination of the short and long term. It also offers the Chamber other possibilities than amending the budgets at Prinsjesdag. He's just right about that. Mr President, then I am in the one-after-last folder, the social challenges. I've done some of those social tasks. I have already mentioned Van Weyenberg's question about covering the impact of CO emissions as an example. At least I'd like to get on with that. It is a very relevant subject. Mr Alkaya asked for 12 million from the resources of the NPO to be spent on the teacher grant. To be honest, that doesn't seem wise to me. Those funds have been released with the aim of cushioning the effects of the corona crisis. So I wouldn't go along with that. Mr Alkaya also asked if the cabinet would be willing to raise the bank's tax in order to raise the pay gap between the p.o. and to close the vo. I also understand his political inspiration. My guess is that it can also be found in his program. But the enthusiasm of the outgoing cabinet is not such that I can now pledge it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u111	To be honest, I'm not surprised. What amazes me, however, is the enthusiasm of the outgoing cabinet, actually of the parties who are all aware of the fact that they are now negotiating, to say in so many words that there will be cuts in care. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg said in so many words, but now the Minister of Finance also says: we have to look at how we will keep care affordable in the future, because it means that we have to make room to pay for other things and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Does the Minister of Finance exclude cuts in health care? 'Cause it wasn't in his program either, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u112	This is so nice, because this is not a question at all to me. Mr Alkaya refers to the forming parties. I don't think there's any form at all. There's only one way to pre-form. But at least that doesn't include the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u113	Thank you. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u114	It was an ugly accusation, but not at my address, I notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u115	So that remark that we have to keep care affordable in the future was actually not appropriate, because this outgoing minister is not at all about the future. What's with the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u116	Well, the purpose of the debate is also to reflect and respond to the points that are being made here. I am only in a very limited position to discuss this with policy, but it seems perfectly justifiable to me that, as Minister of Finance, even if you are outgoing, you are pointing to the consequences and to which posts in the budget are growing very hard and which, especially when you start that story, as I have just done, you do not start with the quality of care. Next you add how important it is that the accessibility is maintained for all Dutch people and finally that it must all remain organizeable. That's one of the biggest concerns of the U.S. Department. That seems to me to be a perfectly justifiable story. Moreover, on every subject we raise here as Minister of Finance, I would say that I think it is important to keep expenditure under control. I would also say that the burden should be kept within limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u117	Thank you. Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u118	Yeah, finally. With the same passion, the Minister of Finance could have stood here and said: the cost of care will increase in the coming years, and that is good news, because we are all getting older and we have better care options, better medicines and better treatment options, and the parties together must ensure that we share those costs fairly. That could have been a story. I note that he does not, but he does, with the same passion, make a problem of healthcare expenditure and does not look at its coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u119	No, that's really not true. The cabinet has been working for a long time to see how you organize it again, with quality and accessibility. I really think it would be useful to have a discussion on what kind of care is needed at what stage. That's not my call, by the way. That is something that belongs in the treatment room in the conversation of patients with their treating physicians; I do not believe there is a female equivalent for that word, Mr President, I say with regret in your direction. That's how it is. And then about productivity. Van Weyenberg just referred to that as well. You see throughout the public sector, but in some parts more than in others, what economists call Baumol's disease. I can't solve it all at once. I'm just happy with innovations and steps forward, because you should know what you can do in a hospital you couldn't do 20, 30 years ago. There's all kinds of things that killed you then. People are now very happy to heal from that. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Snels asked about the ventilation in schools. 260 million has been earmarked for 2022 and 2023, so that the deployment of these funds can take into account the results of IBO Educational Housing and the initial experience of the funds spent in 2021. Isn't that beautiful? Mr Snels looks as if he did not ask that question, but I will keep the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u120	That's another form of entrapment. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u121	The answer went a little fast. The point was that because of ventilation and corona schools should also be able to invest in autumn. Quite simply: can that money be brought forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u122	I think money is reserved for 2022 and 2023. I would like to understand from Mr Snels whether he wants to make it to 2021. That doesn't seem obvious to me. The initial experience with these funds for 2021, from the so-called SUVIS scheme, can also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u123	Sure. There's a difference between those arrangements, but there's 100 million for this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u124	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u125	Because it was a total of 360 million. The cabinet has also communicated this: 100 million for this year and 260 million in 2022 and 2023. But we know that we now have a problem with corona and ventilation. We know the risks of the virus in the fall. Our educational spokesmen, as well as those of the SP, get sounds from schools that they do not have enough money to invest in them. Isn't it logical, then, to use a cash drawer, perhaps, to look at the articles in the budget and to make it possible, if schools are short of money, to make those investments from the same budget anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u126	Let me start by saying that I really endorse the great importance of ventilation, what it does for the space in which people are living and the chance that they get corona. Maybe we all underestimated that. I also remember a conversation with the then temporary Minister for Medical Care, Mr Van Rijn, in which I told him before last summer: I will bring you the money if necessary, but can we please arrange some ventilation? He very much agreed with that, by the way. So I share that inspiration. At the same time, I think, and I say this here, of course, on behalf of the Ministers for Education, that it would be wise for the Cabinet to assess this arrangement on the basis of those initial insights on its effectiveness, which could be improved and, subsequently, to look at an appropriate spending rhythm. Is that a law of Medes and Persians? Well, I don't believe that. To be honest, I really should have a word with my colleagues. But all things considered, this seems prudent and sensible to me. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. Mr Snels asked how the cabinet would comply with the Urgenda ruling. Shouldn't we put in a budget reserve for that? The Cabinet agrees with the need to do more for climate change, as I have just said, not only Urgenda but also wider to achieve the objectives of the Climate Law. We are considering whether this process should become part of the decision-making process on the 2022 budget, and here again it is very logical that the formation should get on the ground once, and above all that is something that is being said about it. Because in the end, of course, it's about not letting 2022 be a lost year. There may be, but I think it is rather limited, a role for the present cabinet. In the end, the new cabinet, like last time, will eventually want to adjust that budget. However, preparatory actions are being taken on this type of dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u127	I understand the Minister's response, especially when it comes to the Climate Agreement and the objectives of the Climate Act. But this is about the rule of law. It's a judge's ruling, and it should have been settled by 2020. It didn't work, not even with corona. What is the view of a outgoing cabinet again? That's what it takes. Meeting the judge's rulings is just part of the missionary cabinet. So in the Spring note, so in the current financial year, not only in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u128	Of course, we always have to relate to judgments. What you do want to do here, of course, is not just solve something in the short term. I'm sure you'll agree with me soon. In the climate, you want to make sure that you do something structuralally wise. So I agree with him. But I can't give you the exact answer either. I can only refer to the discussions that are taking place in the cabinet and I can also refer to the table that some people are looking forward to with in mind 'Sister Anna, do you see anything coming?'. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked a question about 70 million for the implementation of the Climate Agreement by municipalities. I know the wishes of municipalities for additional resources. I could put an end to that sentence, but I'm still reading it. Then there is the question of the implementation of the Climate Agreement. The cabinet is in close contact with the co-governments on this matter. The cabinet has already made 70 million a year available to deal with the energy transition. Mr Snels will know that. But the decision on the implementation and related costs of the Climate Agreement is really up to the next cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I brought the climate debt. Then I had an important question from Mr Nijboer. It is true that, once again, it is right to draw attention to our joint task of taking the problems in and of Groningen very seriously. That is why the cabinet also made administrative agreements with municipalities in the earthquake area last autumn. EUR 1.5 billion is earmarked for this purpose. In addition, EZK and BZK updated the budgetary estimates of the damage and the recovery operation. I have a lot of sums here; I will not read them all. But I have understood him in such a way that he actually wants more than what is already in the separate annex on the changes to the Spring Note. I think that's an understandable question. I think it is most logical to see whether this can be put together in the millions note or at any other time by, for example, the Minister of EZK. Finance will help with that. BZK's gonna have to help with that, too. I'm going to study on that, but I understand his need for an overview. I think those mutations are gonna help, but it's not the whole picture yet. That's how I understood him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u129	It's just about all those different flows in all these years there's also a cash drawer in there that almost turns you into a barrel hour and also all the different shareholder relationships. In EBN the State has something again, Shell and Exxon have something in the NAM. Also with good will there is no rope to tie to, even if you go to study for a few hours. It would help a lot if we just had that in a clear schedule over the years, with a bit of a clear explanation, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u130	I really understand that question. Mr Nijboer was already so generous that I would not have to deliver the schedule tonight. We really need some time for that, I think, because it is exactly as Mr Nijboer himself says: there are all kinds of links between pots in time and cash slides and so on. We're gonna fix that. Perhaps that will work with the Millions note and otherwise at a time in Q3 or Q4.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u131	The Minister responded to a question I had asked. I'm gonna go back a little bit, apologize for the late. That was about whether, apart from the impact of, for example, an amendment or a motion on public finances and public debt, you can do something about climate debt. The Minister was very sympathetic to that. I liked that. He also said honestly in "but I wouldn't know how to god" and I understand that, let alone on all things of broad prosperity. I was actually going to table a motion on this, but the Minister said that he actually wants to figure it out himself, and then I always find it a little faint to put it in a motion. I understand that this isn't settled from today to tomorrow, but would it be something to explore how that might take shape, as some kind of thought exercise for the future? Because I think we share the goal and that it is also very complicated to give it hands and feet. I'm trying to figure out if we can just take this one step further together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u132	I'd certainly like to do that. It's the most obvious thing, I think, but I'm reacting a bit like l'improviste, to include that in the piece of the Millions note that deals with broad prosperity. That is, by the way, an expanding part of the national budget. I have sometimes wondered when the Prince's Daypieces are really only made up of broad prosperity. I can also think of one or two groups that would prefer not to, but that is a subject whose time has come. It's as simple as that. I'm trying to reflect on how you could possibly give this practical hands and feet. I do not rule out the fact that I do not want to spoil the joy of celebrating, but I do not want to stir her up in such a way that we then have a disappointment that making this particular point very concrete is still quite difficult. Of course it doesn't play at all on some subjects and in others you can make an assessment of the footprint, but let me study on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u133	I think that is a good commitment, thank you for that. It is indeed good to just unpack one, for example CO. That's measurable, isn't it? I understand very well that the answer to the Millions note is probably not yet 'we will be able to do it tomorrow', but then we have taken it one step further together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u134	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'd be happy to tell him. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few final questions. Mr Stoffer first gave me his ear on budgetary discipline and asked if it could all be one ounce less, and then plead for more money for Defence, in this case for Defence Real Estate. That's a well-known style figure. Moreover, I can fully follow that from his political point of view. For the record, in the six-monthly report, the Defence Department will keep the Chamber informed of the progress made on the actions already deployed at Defence Real Estate. That's if it's okay also reported to the Chamber by the Secretary of State for Defence on 24 June. In addition, the Defense Department carries out an ibo. The information about this will be shared with the Chamber. Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van Dijk asked about financial problems in municipalities. In my view, the cabinet has really paid a lot of attention to this. The cabinet has taken the fair where it was about corona and has also done a number of more fundamental things, such as for youth care. I think that is what I want to say here: it is crucial, as far as youth care is concerned, that we look at a structural solution that will help the children, especially the children who are most vulnerable and have the worst problems. At the same time, we must also do something about the excesses we see. There is no country in the world where so many children go to child care. I believe that the increase in youth care over the last five years is about 30%. Every year it gets more. It's always dangerous when you talk about specific treatments, because of course it's a flag that never covers the whole load. But there are a lot of treatments...There are also treatments... Let me put it carefully.... which you really have to ask yourself is what the medical added value is, whether children need it and whether there would be no other solution through youth care. It is therefore a broader range of issues that need to be settled, in close dialogue with the municipalities. Mr Nijboer asked what the cabinet would do about the housing shortage. He rightly referred to the co-production that the Minister of BZK and I concluded with him, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Snels. In addition, with the tax reduction in the landlord's levy, the Housing Impulse and the Housing Fund, if you add it all up, the cabinet has made more than 3 billion available. Multi-annual resources are also available for all measures. My fine political feeling says that a next cabinet is going to do a little bit of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u135	That was just my point: the problem is that the housing impulse and the Housing Fund were only for this year and not multiannual. That's 450 million one time. Then we thought: then they are formed and then they are so wise to carry it through. Only now the question is whether that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u136	Let me look at the exact amounts and what is still available. Where resources are exhausted, it really seems to me to be primarily a matter of forming parties, also in dialogue with the outgoing cabinet. But I have noticed one thing in recent months, namely that there is virtually no party that does not have the housing market very high on its agenda. Whether it will be the solution that Mr Nijboer or I personally would like, of course, I cannot guarantee, but I do think it is a dossier that has really come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u137	Normally you do the spending side with the spring note. Then you say: expenditure decision-making is now taking place. Now, of course, that runs a bit through the formation. At the same time, we know that a broad majority in the Chamber believes that more investment is needed to address the housing shortage. I've already got the Minister of the Interior to say, "If the Chamber finds it, we're gonna do it nicely." It sees the problems themselves getting bigger and bigger. So I will try to do so in my second term, in order to move the Chamber to give the Cabinet the room to make those investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u138	I do not know if that is the kind of room the cabinet is waiting for, I say to Mr Nijboer. I understand the inspiration. However, we all read in the newspaper "The Holy Fire" that burns in itself until the very last moment and realizes that it also leads to opportunities if the Chamber wanted it, then often in the cabinet again talk about what exactly it should be paid for. So I cannot be too frivolous about this, but I can share Mr Nijboer's inspiration for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u139	I was glad that the Minister realized that I was a little bit concerned about financial soundness, but let me add that it was out of love and really meant to return to the base and to that empty treasury that Mrs Van Dijk also referred to. I'd still like to come back to the DOD. It's a bit general about it. Sure, the SGP wants to spend extra money for that and I think the CDA too. In fact, if I saw the passing-through around the elections, we'd be pretty much right about that. That also fits in with the reduction of public debt, I say, if you implement the SGP programme. But I'll come back to the Minister's answer. That was a little too vague. The motion that I have tabled and which has also been adopted calls for real insight. It is not a question of adding money now, but of understanding what money is needed to put that Defence Real Estate in order before we deal with the forthcoming budget. So I'd like to have that insight into what's needed. In any case, my information goes so far as to ensure that the Secretary of State for the Interior, together with the Ministry of Defence, is working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u140	The fact that all the scamp shoots came from love makes it feel a lot better. I agree with Mr Stoffer immediately. In my opinion, his programme was the most solid of all parties and indeed he spent most of his money on Defence, so compliments for that. He asked for more precision. So there's this half-yearly report. That ibo is being executed. The answer to the question whether and, if so, how much additional resources are needed to restore the property also depends on choices between action options. Think of demolition, repulsion, sustainability, concentration. That ibo has to point in that direction. Then, of course, a cabinet should simply set priorities. That's the precision I can give you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u141	Thanks for the answer. That makes it a little more precise. I can imagine there are scenarios in it. But I also want to be able to weigh that when that budget is in place, so that I do not have to think 'there is nothing in it' or 'I have to suck it out a little bit'. At the time when we are dealing with the budget, the cabinet must find something of that, but the Chamber must also say, under budget law, how much it has to pay for it, or not. In that capacity, I would like to be able to say something as a Member of Parliament based on the good work of the cabinet, rather than having to suck it out of my own thumb, because then it always gets a little less. If we understand each other in that, I think we're gonna get a long way together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u142	Homework will really be done by the Department of Defense. That's what the Demissionary Secretary of State is doing. Then, of course, the weighting of how you deal with it and what part of it you want to pay later is ultimately 'the ladies and gentlemen politicians', as a predecessor of mine once said. Mr. Chairman. I would refer Mr Grinwis, who had a question on legal aid, to what I just said to Mr Snels about the Klever/Ploumen motion and the August decision-making. I have answered Mrs Van Dijk's question on the housing market, with the remarks just made to Mr Nijboer. Then I am once again with Mr Snels, this time about the delays that citizens have experienced. For the record, in order to prevent citizens from getting caught up in the corona crisis, the Ministry of Social Affairs has already taken several measures. Think of the extension of the deadline, the extension of the duration of loans and the wider availability for taking integration examinations. In my opinion, this spring note also provides for 25 million, but I should like to look into that. So I do not see so much that we should do some extra work there. Mr. Chairman. Then I've come to another important subject. I shall now come to the amendments in detail. I understood Mr Van Weyenberg in such a way that he said: I find it complicated that something related to corona is now potentially affecting the Education budget. I get that on my own. I agree with him, too. It's a rather complicated formula. It's really corona-related. I'll join you in a moment. I wouldn't mind putting a sleeve on it. I would like to consider Mr Van Weyenberg to see if there is anything possible here with a motion. That also makes it easier for the cabinet to see how we save the cabbage and the goat here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u143	We have just talked about multiannual measures, in which the Minister said that you can say something about this multi-annual series of things through an amendment. That's why I'm doing it in that shape. I am now releasing money with this amendment which can be used with a cash drawer. I would like to look again at the wording of the amendment, because if there is money left somewhere else... If with less extra money depositing it can achieve the same goal because of, for example, under-exhaustment that would occur during this year, I am of course not against it. I am purely concerned that we do not have to make policy cuts. I therefore attach great importance to the form of the amendment, bearing in mind what the Minister himself said about multiannual measures, but I am still looking at the wording myself. 'Cause if there was some underexhaustment, of course I don't need the whole 149 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u144	I understand. That's a route we can look at. I must add, and I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, that this is a corona receipt in his words. That's a little complicated encrypted. In hindsight, you might be wondering if you shouldn't have put it all under that NPO. The Ministry of OCW even showed enough enthusiasm for this route. I myself think, but perhaps I can still consider that, Mr Van Weyenberg, that it really makes it easier for the cabinet to do it in a motion. But I'd like to think along with him how you can reasonably do something about the receipt. Maybe I can stay there in the first term. Otherwise, we'll have to take it back in second term. I understand his suggestion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u145	I will look at the wording of the amendment. Because if it turns out that the whole 149 million isn't needed, then that's good news on balance. Then you don't have to cut back on that. Those NPO assets are fixed. I heard that the Minister was critical of another amendment that also comes with these resources. I would like to look for a wording that gives a little more room for the fact that sometimes there are even more windfalls in such a budget. That is also a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u146	Thank you. Then I have two final cases. Several spokesmen have rightly referred to the long-term sustainability of finances. I have just indicated that Mr Stoffer has already said some educational things in my direction in the category 'who loves his children, disciplined them', but Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Heinen and others have also said that point. In my view, this is precisely the task for a subsequent cabinet. How do you ensure that on the one hand you do the sensible things on the expenditure side of the budget, on the other hand you also provide reasonable burdens for citizens and businesses and also ensure that the next generation does not pay the bill? 'Cause you have to make the money before you can spend it. It seems that Helmut Schmidt has also said this to Joop den Uyl: that in Germany you always had to earn a D-Mark first and why it could be different in the Netherlands. But I'll look up that anecdote again. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one last thing. I think the atmosphere was extremely friendly, but one thing I really wanted to say. I am very grateful to both my predecessors, who are working at Invest-NL and at the Growth Fund, for the good work they are doing there. I really have to contradict them as if they'd gotten themselves a job. They have all kinds of things they can do with their time and with their lives. I am glad that they want to spend their time with their knowledge, skills and great professionalism on the public cause. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u147	I will look at Mrs Inge van Dijk to see if her question has been adequately answered. If not, I will give her the opportunity to ask her about the harrowing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my speech, I had indeed indicated the following. I understand we have that standard arrangement. We are also dealing with a number of cases that are really very poignant. We are now in a phase that hopefully, slowly, we are going back to a sort of normal, but those poignant cases are still poignant. I actually said, "Oh, can't something be thought of to deal with that?" I had another question that hasn't been answered. We talked about whether or not to pay back. You had a nice formulation for that. Mr. Van Dijck said: that moral apple is all nice and nice, but does it get anything? I asked you to make an assessment of the amount of money involved. 'Cause I think it's important to properly evaluate that when we look back later. Then perhaps we can also discuss the next question. Imagine getting back in the way of this, what would be a good way to get the money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u149	I'm sorry I don't have that in my head anymore. Mrs Van Dijk was concerned with the poignant cases of companies, wasn't she? Yes. That is exactly the group that we have said is really having a hard time looking at a very big debt mountain and which does not come with all the delay and all the adjusted rates, whether it is about tax interest, recovery interest or what. There might be something extra needed for that. That's only about a few percent, but in those cases where you can avoid bankruptcy, you also want to avoid it. The Secretary of State for Finance is now also looking with other parties at what is possible. I don't want to make any promises until he's done with that. That is also complicated, because creditors have a certain position. Still, we'd like to take a look at that. That's one. In my view, Mrs Van Dijk is saying two more things about the companies. She asks: couldn't you still study on how to get that back? It's not that I don't want to, but I haven't found a way to do that so far. I would like to study that again, because I very much share the logic of the substance. It is quite right that it goes to the companies that needed it. It is also quite right that those who did not need it should pay back. Mr Van Dijck was an unexpected ally on that subject. How much money are we talking about? It is about many, many, many tens of billions of aid, so I assume that it is also about billions of aid that companies have received and then made more profit. So it's about very substantial money. A first publication was published in a specialist journal, which I did not interfere with, but with which officials also wrote. It is important that you always consider the extent to which settlement is still taking place during these discussions, that you look not only at the gross amount but also at the net amount. That's what Parliamentary questions came in about. I will answer them properly in cooperation with the other two departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u150	We have Invest-NL, the National Growth Fund and all the other funds. Billions are on the shelf. If it is only sustainable and innovative, you can collect the billions for free from those counters, but it is quite a coincidence that two former finance ministers are at the helm there. I understand this minister, because maybe in a few months he'll be president of Invest International. Who knows? 2.5 tons is nicely earned anyway!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u151	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u152	My question, which I would like to draw attention to, apart from the rustling with those jobs, is what the implementation costs of these organisations are. Because such an Invest-NL has been in existence for a year now, has 1.7 billion on the shelf, but has not yet spent 100 million on three projects. The same applies to the National Growth Fund. I have a feeling that there are more implementation costs, as with a lot of these projects, than there are real projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u153	Mr Van Dijck does not need this. He really doesn't need to say qualifying things in this way that are demonstrably not true to two people I have very high and who are doing great work in one case with the Growth Fund and in the other case with an important state participation. We really shouldn't. That is why I have responded to that, because I simply do not think that is a choice for them. Then there is the cost of implementation. The state participation report, as Mr Van Dijck also knows, always contains information on implementation costs. We discussed the Growth Fund extensively with each other very recently last week. I believe that Mr Van Dijck was not present. We had a debate for three hours. We have talked about all these aspects. I would like to refer to that debate and to the written exchange of views on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u154	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u155	It's about why these men have to make 2.5 tons. I ask myself that I am sorry and I am very much a taxpayer. Is it by chance that they're two ex-Ministers? Are there no people, Wouter Bos, for example, who I am also very fond of... I have had a lot of debates with both. I've been through them both as financial spokesperson. It's not like I don't appreciate their qualities...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u156	Then we solved it, didn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u157	I'm just asking if they're the right people in the right place. Wouter Bos comes from health care. I think he could have done much better there than Invest-NL, where he is now running thumbs with three projects. Sorry. I just think it's a loss of capital to put a man like that there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u159	Something else is natural...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u160	Can you ask a specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u161	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u162	Can you ask a specific question? It's interesting to see in itself, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u163	I'm responding to the accusations made to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u164	...what is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u165	My question to the Minister is why these projects are not getting off the ground. We are not waiting for a new Fyra, a new HSL and you name it. In other words, what is the reason why all these projects are not getting off the ground? Isn't it just a waste of time and a waste of money to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u166	You know one thing for sure: that if you say something like that, Mr. Van Dijck will gladden you again with the interrupting microphone. I still think it should be done. You can really be thankful and satisfied when people with a track record like those of these two former ministers declare their willingness to do this kind of work for us. By the way, one does that as a side job, the other as a full-time job. I am very, very grateful to them for that. The profit of this debate is that Mr Van Dijck also endorses their great qualities and thus actually expresses how good it is that they are doing this task with freshness and dedication to the public cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u167	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u168	I am missing another answer, because I had asked the Minister, and I have just told him a little bit more graphically, but it comes down to the following: how many billions are on the shelf to go into the transition of agriculture; let me say it nicely. And what impact would that have on, for example, those EUR 10 billion that farmers contribute to the Netherlands and the 300 000 jobs that this brings directly and indirectly? The CBS itself said something about this yesterday: it has very serious consequences. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u169	What I can do, if Mrs van der Plas has been helped with this, is to come back in the second term to the specific amounts that the cabinet has allocated to climate and nitrogen. I may not be able to break it up entirely in parts, but I would like to put it together. I can do it half out of my head, but then Mrs Van der Plas says: where's the other half? The second point is that there is, of course, still a debate on nitrogen and agriculture. In this connection, it is quite clear to this cabinet, and to all parties who may be washed up in formation, that you must do something to keep the country viable, and that you must do so to our farmers in a fair, fair and forward-looking way too. But that's not a conversation I can give you a ruling on right now. I'll try to spoon that first one later, if she needs it. I can also record that in a letter. The second is really on the formation and at the moment to some kind of beginning cabinet council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u170	That first one's nice. I cannot promise that there will be no motion, but at least I would like to see that first part. Then we'll take a look in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u171	Yes. For the record: then I will bring up the climate and nitrogen costs here in good Dutch: with perhaps something of a breakdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u172	Thank you. Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u173	The Minister was quite complete in his reply, but I asked about the NS, about the foreign adventures. Is his reasoning even correct? It comes down to: "Oh, we've got a lot of things happening to us and now there's a lot of setbacks. I'm just gonna make a break for it. What a mess."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u174	Listening to the first term of at least two speakers, I would almost like to see the AO State participations, because that is the real place to settle this with each other. Mr Nijboer is quite right, moreover, that I had forgotten the question. When he and I had an exchange of views on Abellio in England two and a half years ago, I said that you will not be away from what you already have tomorrow, but that there must be a clear good reason for everything you are going to do new to doing business abroad. That could be in synergy. That could be in a learning effect. This may be in advantages that are evident to the Dutch citizen. It could just be making money. I have often said here once in a while that is always easier than in advance, that of course not all Abellio's decisions have obviously been equally successful. I do not wish to comment on this particular point, namely the subject of Germany, with Mr Nijboer's approval. I would like to take that up again with his approval, for example at the AO or if there is more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u175	The Minister is right: on the one hand, this is part of the AO State participations which are now called 'committee debate', but on the other hand it has a lot of financial consequences, even now. Because a loss-making company that needs to be paid in and where the plug might go out in six months' time is simply a matter of budgetary importance. That is why I raised it here. I understand that the Minister is not saying much about this anymore, but I will continue to express my concern about all these foreign adventures. The NS is larger abroad than in the Netherlands and the risks are for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u176	I understand that the Minister's letter is on the agenda for the State Participations Committee debate which will take place in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u177	Let me put two more sentences to it. I really recognize some of Mr Nijboer's discomfort. I've talked to him about that before. The other side of it is that at least for me there is often something to say when it all goes well with state participations abroad and which clearly produce something in the financial sense, but also in terms of synergy or learning effect. There are also state participations that do excellent abroad. And then you think, "That's excellent." But in these kinds of cases you think: maybe it shouldn't have been like that. Thank you for Mr Nijboer's precision. I shall come back to that further in the debate with him. He is right: it is now called 'committee debate'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u178	Thank you. I think you wanted to give the appreciation of the amendment. Or do you do that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u179	I thought I'd do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u180	You wanted to do that in the second term. Then that's how we're gonna do it. I am now looking at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. I think so. I would ask Members to restrict themselves a little bit in time, because Members have already had ample opportunity to debate with the Minister. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u181	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to dwell on the attack on Peter R. de Vries. I wish his family and neighbors much strength and strength. What happened, of course, is terrible. I would also like to thank this Minister for the answers. It is probably the last time we will debate in this Chamber. After the summer we may meet in another room. Mr. Chairman. As I said, I hold my heart for thezzp'ers and the companies with too much debt. I do foresee a number of bankruptcies, because if the debt is too high, it will also be economically interesting to pull the plug at some point. 'Cause why would you go to work for another ten years to get rid of all that debt when you could go bankrupt? So that's where I'm afraid of calculating behavior. I would therefore ask this Minister once again to apply a great deal of coulance to the reimbursement facilities. Finally... Or, well, finally? I also wanted to draw attention to the implementation costs. In that light, I made my comment about Invest-NL and the National Growth Fund. And I'm worried about Groningen, too. The Court referred to the fact that every euro paid for recovery costs €0.56 in implementation and advisory costs. That's impossible, isn't it? The Implementing Agency for Recovery Supplements has 400 men. That's 400 fte with 0.5 billion in implementation costs. Then there is 8.5 billion to boost education. How many people are involved in that? We also have the Housing Fund, Invest-NL and the Growth Fund. I would therefore like to pay more attention to the cost of implementation. I would also like to see it included in the report. Finally, Mr President. There's a lot of talk in this house about climate and nitrogen, even today. All this must be very important, but I can't hear anyone talking about purchasing power. People need purchasing power. A lot of people, one in five households, can't make ends meet at the end of the month. That's 1.6 million households, families! They're having trouble paying the bills. They're having trouble going on vacation with the kids once. And no one's talking about that. Everyone thinks the climate and you name it much more important. Finally, Mr President. The Minister is constantly hiding behind the Prime Minister when it comes to presents to other, southern European Member States. It is still unclear to me why, as Dutch taxpayers, we have to pay 4.5 billion to a country like Italy to build a railway there. I don't know, and this minister doesn't know, because he's always referring to the Prime Minister. But in the meantime, he's giving away 100 billion of our money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u182	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u183	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. Thanks also for his commitment to provide insight into the estimates in future by sending an overview of under-exhaustments to the Chamber. I also heard the commitment to look for ways to make the Spring Paper process more transparent. The Minister rightly indicated that there is already a lot of information, but I am looking for a more comprehensive picture of the claims that have and have not been filed. I would like to emphasise once again that we are not going to open the whole tombola of all the conversation notes, and that not everything goes back to the Chamber. But I do mean more transparency. We see that, on the one hand, the Spring Paper reports on acute problems. Then we hear a cabinet say: yes, but there is also an acute problem on the other hand. There's no money for that. I think it's good that we get an insight into how that consideration is being made. That's why I have a motion. I'm just gonna put it in front of the minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the spring note does report on the financial claims granted, but does not report on the rejected financial claims;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives therefore has an incomplete view of the financial bottlenecks in the current budget and the considerations made by the Cabinet in the granting of financial claims;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the decision-making process on the spring note can be more transparent, reporting not only on the financial claims granted but also on rejected financial claims in relation to bottlenecks in the current budget, indicating the balancing framework used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Heinen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u184	And one last one. The Minister did not make it much easier for me, because he referred to this motion as a restriction on budget law. He shares the goal, but I think he's made it an uphill battle for us with this. I'm gonna take a shot anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no free money;]] [[calls on the Government to make an amendment in the review of the Compatibility Act including in the law that policy proposals should always be provided with financial coverage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Heinen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u185	I ask Mr Heinen to withdraw this motion immediately. He is here calling into question the constitutional right of Members of Parliament to amend. Will he then allow the government to assess whether amendments from the Chamber are sufficient? I really don't think it makes any sense. I have been listening to it all night: 'amendments must be covered'. They're usually covered. But it is up to Members of Parliament to propose amendments. When it comes to the sovereign debt, that is the consequence of being uncovered. It's possible. I never do that myself, because I cover them all the time, but I can. So what does he want? In this constellation of power and counterpower we are in, does he want to restrict the budget right of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u186	Mr Nijboer has been making a caricature of this debate all evening. That's his right, but I think it's getting a little annoying. I am simply referring to the budgetary rules. Did he find all the cabinets in which the PvdA has been sitting unconstitutional? Did he find the salmon standard and the trendary fiscal policy unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u187	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u188	I'll tell you through the chairman. Did Mr Nijboer find that unconstitutional? What a strange remark this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u189	No, I always cover my amendments, as I do today. I also tabled an amendment today that I am covering. I think that's a good principle, too. But I am referring to asking the government to curtail the Chamber in its co-legislative role and force it to seek cover which apparently still has to be met. That is the first step. Soon costs will not be covered by expenditure, because this has been discussed in the coalition agreement, whereas opposition parties can do just fine. I think that's a slippery slope you shouldn't go to. Mr Heinen can be very irritated and arrogant about that, but I am not very impressed by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u190	Finally, Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u191	Here we do nothing but lay down what we always lay down in the budgetary rules. Only, there is a situation in which the budgetary rules temporarily do not apply. I say, then, let us agree that it should also be covered. There is no proposal from Mr Nijboer that this cannot be tabled. The only thing we can do about this is to make it transparent where the money comes from and to have a good, purely political debate. Again, this is already in the budgetary rules. If Mr Nijboer thinks that is unconstitutional, then I wonder where he has taken part in the past cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u192	I come from a slightly different political spectrum from Mr Nijboer, especially when it comes to how we look at public finances. I have a question for Mr Heinen, through you, Mr President. What proposals has he seen that have not been covered in the past period? I'd like to see some examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u193	Then you should take a look at all the amendments that have been tabled. I went into it in my first term. Some 800 million in uncovered amendments have been tabled. I am not concerned that these amendments should not be tabled, but it is appropriate for the Chamber that when it makes policy proposals, it should say where the money should come from. It shouldn't be a situation of "it comes from heaven and we can spend it on something." Therefore, indicate transparently where it comes from. Then you have a purely political debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u194	Of course, it stays in the general picture. I am on Mr Nijboer's line. I have often seen motions, amendments and so on, which I think cover is about simply raising taxes. Either a project or something else was pushed out of the budget, which is totally unrealistic. And then I think it's ripped off, actually. But it's okay, of course. So I am, after all, on Mr Nijboer's line, of: do you have to want to do this now, to submit this tonight, anyway? If it is tabled, I must point out that, however I am in favour of financial soundness, the SGP does not want to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u195	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u196	Something special is going on here. Can Mr Heinen tell me where the budgetary rules are in the Compatibility Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u197	Yeah, they're nowhere; that's the whole point. So there is a situation in which we have said together that we think budgetary rules are important, that we think financial coverage is important, and then there is a situation in which we are all going to go about it and let me go about it, so it is not a reproach to the parties that we are not going to follow. And then you don't have a purely political debate. Then you have a debate about whether money can go somewhere, while underneath it is always the question of: where does that money come from? And you'll have to have a discussion about that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u198	In reply to Mr Nijboer, Mr Heinen said that the budgetary rules had been laid down. But those budgetary rules are not in the Compatibility Act. The budgetary rules are a political agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u199	And your question to Mr. Heinen is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u200	...and that political agreement is made by coalition parties. So MPs are not bound by that, constitutionally not even the MPs of the coalition groups. So if I may make one suggestion to Mr. Heinen... Look, he can, of course, do a speech-out, and I think that most groups will vote against it. But giving an order to the Minister of Finance to look at the Compliance Act that binds MPs, that simply cannot be done by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u201	Thank you. I believe that this has brought us to the end of your term. You want some more? No repeat, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u202	No, Mr. Chairman. I just wonder how Mr Heinen sees this. What would be the consequence if his motion were to be adopted unexpectedly, and I come up with an amendment which he does not like, which has no cover? Then what happens? What's my punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u203	I didn't plead for sanctions. I would argue that such a motion should not, for example, be able to give a Chamber of Appeal. It can then indicate: this is not covered. That is already a good, standing use, but it is not recorded anywhere that, if you have an amendment or motion without cover, it can just pass. I think you should tell me where it came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u204	Thank you. Mr Grinwis, Christian Union. Then everyone asked a question about that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u205	I was curious to see whether Mr Heinen's motion also sees the revenue side. Or is it just about the spending side? Because with the revenue side of the budget, Mr van Volt has rightly pointed this out. We are all a little less prudent on a regular basis, with the jubilee notes, the mortgage interest deduction and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u206	I do not know what Mr Grinwis' question is. Because this is about cover, and whether that's on the expenditure side or on the revenue side, I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u207	It's both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u208	Yeah, both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u209	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering my questions. It is always an honor to be standing here, but certainly to be able to close your birthday or almost your birthday in the plenary room of the House of Democracy. That is the other category of honor, I must admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u211	Congratulations. I think we'll make it to 0:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll see. Mr. Chairman. There has also been talk here of healthcare expenditure, healthcare expenditure. And I have to admit that I am concerned about the rhetoric that is being used here, namely that it would be priceless. That is what many parties say in so many words. I've been checking it out for a while. In 2060, according to the latest ageing study, healthcare expenditure peaks at 13.5% of the economy. They are now a small 10% of our economy. Between 2013 and 2019, spending on care in relation to our economy decreased, which did not increase at all. So that's the quote "problem" we're talking about here, which, according to the SP, is no problem at all. We think it is very good that the caregivers are so ready for us, and also very well that the opportunities for care are increasing. And when society ages, it's about how we're all going to pay for it, not how we're going to cut it. That's what worries me. And if it is going to happen, then that is my signal to the parties that are now directly or indirectly negotiating a new cabinet in the shortest possible time the Malieveld will be full. 1.5 million people work hard in care to keep us healthy so that we can flourish. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government does not clarify the impact of the reduction of the AWf premium on the General Unemployment Fund;]] [[Whereas the reduction of the AWf premium has the effect of substantially reducing assets in the General Unemployment Fund if this is not compensated;]] [[considers that the reduction of farm premiums should not be at the expense of the General Unemployment Fund;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from reducing the AWf premiums paid by employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I was pleased with the commitment to do a first finger exercise in the Millions' Note, if I may use that word, for how, when assessing motions and amendments, you can look not only at financial debt but also at climate debt, for example CO emissions, as a kind of closer thought exercise to give wider prosperity more hands and feet in our budgetary process. That's not easy. That won't be perfect in one go. But I do think it is an exercise of thought that we should do with each other, in order to make good reflections between policy areas in this way too. In fact, I expect an amended amendment to be distributed at any time in which I have tried to do justice to the small interrupting debate I had with the Minister on whether under-utilisation, if there is any, for example with the corona measures, can also be used to counter the cuts in higher education and MBO. I was pleased that the Minister acknowledged that this is indeed some kind of corona receipt. I am not in favour of the uncovered amendments. The only reason I think it's wise here, and also in line with other policies, is that it's a corona receipt. If, by the way, there is under-exhaustment somewhere else, it can become... then the means also lapse. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that I am releasing funds this year, which, if there is not enough under-exhaustment, can be used to at least ensure that this is the objective that I want to achieve, that this task, which is set out in the books for the years to come, can be removed. So that doesn't apply to now. I also heard the Minister respond favourably to it. It's a bit of looking for the shape, but I think we agree on the content. I think that is good news, because there were a lot of concerns at the MBO, the HBO and the universities that they would be presented with some sort of bill for corona. If we can avoid that, I think that's good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u214	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u215	Mr. Chairman. I am a social democrat, so I stand in a tradition of prudent management of public finances. I'm proud of that, too. From Drees to Kok, from Bos to Dijsselbloem: you can say a lot of us, but we have not often been accused of being very irresponsible about public finances. As a financial spokesman, I try to be in that tradition. I therefore look forward to the Minister's opinion on the amendment that I have tabled, or on both amendments, one for expenditure, namely to finance teachers and training, and one for coverage, namely the implementation costs of a very poorly thought-out tax regime. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, because the Chamber is missionary and can give direction to the cabinet, especially in the area of housing, because I think that is one of the biggest problems of our time. You can see that in the Spring Paper there is a lot of money allocated to education, just like for employment, think of all those emergency packages................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think it's necessary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the viability of many neighbourhoods and villages is under pressure and that there is a huge shortage of affordable houses;]] [[whereas the Housing Fund is only available for 2021, while the needs are also enormous in 2022;]] [[calls on the government to extend the Housing Fund for one year and to reserve its budget in the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u216	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the housing shortage in the Netherlands is high;]] [[Whereas the housing impulse has been exhausted;]] [[calls on the government to continue the housing impulse next year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u217	Mr. Chairman. I am also in favour of lowering the landlord's tax or other forms of incentive, but I really think it is necessary to do something about the housing shortage at the moment and not to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u218	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answers. I tried to make a point about who was very much awarded the money. But it has also been given a piece to return it, if you don't need it anymore, as it is community money. I have tried to make a number of points about the concern, about debt versus the sometimes weak asset positions, both among citizens and businesses. I understand it's up to another cabinet. I'd like to make another point. We talk about it a lot: we give money to something and then problems are solved. We were just talking about housing again. But we don't just need money. Do we also have the people to judge plans that lie there? But also: is there any administrative will, for example by offering space in zoning plans, to actually come to fruition? So it's really more than money. I think that we should continue to have the debate on this in the coming period. Then I have another motion, about the municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities and provinces have been given more and more tasks without the financial resources being kept up to date;]] [[noting that society faces challenges that will result in a great deal of additional work for fellow governments such as housing, nitrogen, energy transition and ageing;]] [[Whereas a clear vision of the division of roles between governments and the corresponding financial responsibilities is necessary;]] [[Considers that the government should not transfer tasks to municipalities and provinces until the fundamental discussion on the direction of domestic governance has been completed with concrete proposals in spring 2022;]] [[invites the government not to carry over any tasks until that time, except in cases where this is really necessary, provided that in good consultation with the municipalities and with the corresponding finances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u221	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's kind of a weird night to have this debate. Many have already said something about this. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers to the questions asked. Perhaps I should refer to Mr Heinen again in this debate. I always find that quite interesting and pleasant in front of the VVD. I actually like his first motion. That is also the debate I had with the Minister of Finance. I found him reluctant in that. He referred to next year's spring note and otherwise to the formation table. I am pleased that Mr Heinen has tabled his excellent first motion. I am also curious about the Minister's response. Perhaps I should remind him that the cabinet directive also states why the cabinet does so. This is not just about transparency, but also about giving insight into alternatives that have been considered and into risks that have been taken. That seems one-on-one like everything I have done together with the Minister in the past four years for the Quality Insight project: to give more insight into quality so that, as Mrs Van Dijk rightly says, we also know what decisions we are taking and whether we are getting value for money. So I was really a little disappointed in the Minister's somewhat reluctant response. But he will have to respond to Mr Heinen's motion. He knows what Mr Heinen thinks about his second motion. The second question I really want to ask is about Urgenda. The Minister said about this in the first term: it is either at issue in the budget preparation, but that is 2022, or it is up to the forming parties. In my opinion, meeting the Urgenda ruling is simply a task of the Demissionary Cabinet. So in this year too, in the current year, the cabinet will have to take additional measures. I would like to know from the Minister how he sees it in this outgoing cabinet and when the Chamber is informed of it. I do not think that the Finance Minister is waiting for a new trial and that he will soon have to pay a penalty payment of several hundred million to maybe 2 billion, because that will be wasted money. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u223	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u224	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to express my condolences to Peter R. de Vries, his closest friends. Of course, it evokes flashbacks to previous shootings. You don't really want to be confronted with that in this country, which should be free and safe for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I've announced a motion, and I'm recommending it now. I shall table the motion together with Mr Inge van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that housing corporations with the implementation of the Beckerman-movement c.s. to freeze the rents in the social rental sector, a structural loss of EUR 180 million in income;]] [[Whereas the housing corporations following the Nijboer c.s. motion be compensated by the Minister for EUR 150 million through a reduction in the landlord levy;]] [[Considering that housing corporations, which play a crucial role in housing, with major tasks related to building affordable housing and keeping rents affordable, are structurally reduced by EUR 30 million, in addition to the many financial challenges they already face apart from this loss of income;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide structural compensation for housing corporations for the remaining EUR 30 million from 2022 onwards, to cover this amount from the funds originally budgeted for the ICI and to settle this in the Tax Plan for 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u225	This is not the only attack the housing corporations face. I do not think it is appropriate that, on the one hand, if a freeze is declared, on the other hand, there should be a motion which does not cover it sufficiently. In addition, the landlord's tax also rises much faster than inflation due to the huge increase in the value of houses due to the madness on the housing market. My final question is, therefore, whether the Minister would like to look again at the basis of the landlord levy in the context of the preparation of the budget. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u226	I would like to sincerely congratulate Mr Grinwis and Mrs Van Dijk on this initiative, because that is serious money for housing corporations. My follow-up question would be: is it also negotiable to make more than 30 million from that original BIK funds available to housing? Because, of course, the problem is greater than 30 million. I mean the compliment, because I can see the VVD gripping. They're not happy about it. But it's gonna happen. There's already a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u227	Thank you for Mr Nijboer's question. He is, of course, familiar with the electoral programme of the Christian Union and its passing on. It says with cow letters that the landlord tax has had its longest time and has to leave. But first of all, we are discussing the revision of this year's budget and what happened this year. I note that, for my time as a Member of Parliament, a freezing motion has been adopted here which has consequences for the income of housing corporations. In total, the impact on housing corporations was 180 million. They've been compensated for $150 million. I notice there's a 30 million hole. Given also sound and orderly budgeting, it is my job to close that gap, because in the long term we cannot deal with the housing corporations and their task and with the residents of the houses of the housing corporations. So that's why this proposal is now. And as for the other big money, that is, the total removal of the landlord's tax and all the BIK money for it: it is still awaiting the possibility that that opportunity may occur. For the time being, Mr Nijboer will have to do so. But I warmly welcome his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u228	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u229	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first concerns a financial solidity trend in fiscal policy. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the trend in fiscal policy is not always respected and that the expenditure ceiling of regular expenditure is overwritten by the Spring Paper 2021;]] [[Considering that this is mainly due to urgent matters, such as the settlement of the surcharges and the recovery operation of Groningen, but that this does not relieve the cabinet of its responsibility for sound public finances;]] [[noting that both the Central Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank advise to control public expenditure and that the Council of State advises transparent fiscal policy with clear financial anchors;]] [[Notes that clear financial frameworks and budgetary arrangements are needed for sound financial policies;]] [[calls on the government to comply with these budget agreements and financial anchors, unless there are reasonable grounds for doing so, such as the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u230	Mr. Chairman. Now the Minister was stunned that he could give me a commitment on the first instalment of road safety payments, and I was actually a little surprised. Normally, I am always more pleased with a commitment than with an adopted motion, but I can imagine that all these municipalities and the people working with them are not all looking at this. Then maybe I should have done more with road safety. Now it's later this week, but I can't take part in it. I think it is a good thing to do it by motion to record it, so there is one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Road Safety Strategic Plan can contribute to improving road safety and that the measures from the first tranche should be implemented by 2021;]] [[Whereas municipalities have sometimes been delayed in implementing measures, partly due to the corona crisis, which could jeopardise the progress of projects;]] [[Invites the Government to extend from 2021 to the end of 2022 the period of use of measures from assigned projects under the first tranche of the SPV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u231	One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some parties in the broadest sense are guided by the disappearance of thousands of farmers and gardeners in the Netherlands, in order to make way for housing, among other things;]] [[having noted that the Planning Office for the Environment, the PBL, wrote in an opinion to the Cabinet that meeting all nitrogen measures had a major impact on agriculture;]] [[noting that the disappearance of thousands of farms can cost not only directly but also indirectly tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of jobs in the agricultural sector;]] [[Calls on the government to identify the social, economic and financial consequences of the possible disappearance of tens of thousands of livestock and arable farms in the provinces of Gelderland, Overijssel, the Groene Hart and Noord-Brabant, as described in the PBL opinion issued on 5 July and the report "Towards a relaxed Netherlands" by Mr Strootman and Mr Jan Willem Erisman, including job losses, direct and indirect loss of the economic contribution of the agricultural sector to e.g. the Netherlands, the impact on our landscape, landscape management, the impact on local food production and the impact on social cohesion in rural areas;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35850-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u233	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs about five minutes to prepare himself. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u234	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Since there is now a press conference in Amsterdam and Mr Grapperhaus and the Prime Minister have spoken there, I would like to add a few words on my side. I understand that it is now clear that there is an attack on journalism and thus on the rule of law. That, as I have just reminded you, is really terrible. It shockes us all very much. I have always, I think, appreciated Peter R. de Vries for his courage and determination and also for the enormous contribution he has made to many criminal cases, often against the rocks. What we now see and know shockes us all and makes many incredibly angry. This is, and I repeat, a real attack on journalism and thus on the rule of law. So this touches us all in the heart. As just recalled, we are of course all very much in mind with Peter R. de Vries and his immediate surroundings. I think that some of the Members have also struggled to discuss a number of nice things, but this, of course, has caused a bit of a grey veil about this debate, which we would have liked to have with each other in a more relaxed way. Mr. Chairman. I have three more pieces of homework: firstly a few questions, secondly the motions and thirdly the amendments. I still owe Mrs van der Plas an answer on nitrogen and climate. I'm not going to roll up the whole list. I hope she can forgive me for that, but I can say in her direction that about 6 billion is earmarked for tackling the problem of nitrogen. Some of them have already been added to the LNV budget. The remaining part is in the supplementary post at the Ministry of Finance. For climate, the answer requires a little more explanation, because it consists of all kinds of tax regulations and expenditure. By the way, all kinds of posts had already been included in previous budgets. Besides, of course, you have things like the Urgenda reserve. I would like to assure Mrs van der Plas that I will include in the Millions' Note an overview of all these different arrangements. Then Mrs Van der Plas has the overall overview. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels may have felt a little inadequate in the area of Urgenda. I'd really like to take that impression away. I just wanted to say that this is not only now that this is urgent and important, as he rightly says, but that, given where we stand in time, it is also logical that it should indirectly play a role in the preparation of the budget for next year. Does it find a definitive place in that? I cannot see that at the moment, but the directors involved are working on it separately. If I have given a too narrow impression of what the cabinet is doing, I hope I have repaired it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on the motions. The first motion, the motion in part No. 4 by Mr Heinen, on the rejected claims in the Spring Note. I can find a long way to go in what he's asking. It's just that the cabinet is a missionary. Moreover, this calls for some broader consultation. We have, of course, already moved towards much more transparency, so I would naturally like to go into the motion with flexibility and kindness, but the motion is a little early. I would therefore ask Mr Heinen to hold the motion for a preliminary vote if he could accept it. In the meantime, I am going to work on this and I will make sure that the Chamber is informed about it. I will also do so in close dialogue with the Minister for the Interior, who has the wider subject of transparency on documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u236	Let me take a look at Mr Heinen to see if he is prepared to hold on to his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u237	I'll think about it a little bit longer, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u238	If Mr Heinen does not hold his motion, what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u239	If I'm going to give the motion judgment room now, I could've spared myself that first piece. I'm trying to tell the Chamber that I understand that we want something on this. In my view, Mr Heinen understands in particular that there are major problems in the budgetary process if you ask too much. I was, of course, encouraged by Mr Snels. It happens all the time. He was a little too frivolous in that, in my opinion, but I really want to get on with it. Then I would like it to be consistent in time with the arrival of a new cabinet and also with the negotiations, in due course. Otherwise, let me promise Mr Heinen that I will do just that. Maybe that'll help him hold the motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u240	With that promise, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u241	At the request of Mr Heinen, I propose his motion (35850, No. 4) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u242	I also met a figure of style with one of the other members, who had already made the commitment, but who actually wanted to table a motion. Then I thought, "Well, then I might as well quit all those promises." No, I was not talking about Mr Nijboer this time, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 5 by Mr Heinen. Of course, I very much agree with the inspiration. I would really like to emphasise that. This financial coverage is not a fantasy of a finance minister or a single financial spokesman, but a very important part of what we have to do with each other. We all benefit from sound public finances and we all have to ask ourselves, with our different political orientations, what the consequences of our policies are for the next generation. So I agree with the inspiration for a long time. I have tried to indicate in the first period alone that I should not want a restriction on budget law by amending the Compatibility Act. In fact, if I wanted to, that adjustment would end at the first treatment in the Lower House, I think. I can therefore agree with the inspiration, but in this form I should advise against the motion addressed to the cabinet. I hope I have explained it in all nuance. The third motion is the Alkaya/Van Kent motion in part No. 6 on the reduction of the AWf premiums. It is perhaps good to stress that we are still talking administratively about a fund, but that you might suggest that there would be a need for some sort of clearing-up in terminology. It is all in the EMU balance, I have just been told. I would therefore like to reassure Mr Alkaya that lower AWf premiums do not affect employees. I therefore believe that the motion is superfluous as well. I would like to offer him that finance or SZW might be organising a technical briefing on this, so that it is clear how this system works. If he could agree to that, I hope he will continue or withdraw that motion. If he were persevering, I would have to discourage the motion myself, but I hope that I will meet him with this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u243	Normally, I am always sympathetic to such requests. Then I'd hold the motion. Only, the cabinet has announced that the reduction in these premiums is by August. So if I keep him on and we don't vote on it this week, then the possibility is gone. So I already have no other choice, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u244	I understand. Then I'm gonna have to ask you to withdraw the motion. I also understand when Mr Alkaya says he doesn't. Then I hope that I have been able to argue, at least in relation to some of the others in the Chamber, why the cabinet is dissuading the motion. But I'm not going to take anything away from the commitment I just made to organise a technical briefing or give insight into the system. That sounds good to me anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u245	Mr Nijboer on Mr Alkaya's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u246	Yeah, because this is pretty much about big money, 2 billion. It would go into effect by August, but it will require a law. I haven't seen the law yet. I haven't seen a withdrawal bill called BIK. So I honestly don't think it's gonna happen again. At least, I'm not coming back from recess to repair the BIK and go in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u247	I understand there's a law of withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u248	I know that Mr Nijboer did not fall on the back of his head. He has a dialogue on this with the Secretary of State for Finance. Of course, things like that are discussed in the Ministry. I think it is true that the Chamber has also discussed with the Secretary of State why in this case the Secretary of State and thus the Cabinet thought that this was resolved through the withdrawal and letter, and with that budget law is also standing. I think that was shared with the Chamber in a letter. In itself, I share with Mr Nijboer that there is a need not to come back during the recess. Which brings me to the fourth motion. I do not have the money here, I say immediately to Mr Nijboer. I should advise against his motion, even with reference to the first deadline. But there's still money in that Housing Fund. With regard to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the instrument, we still need to gain experience. After that, we need to look fully in the formation at what is the most effective approach to housing. With some sadness I have seen that there are also political parties who are quite critical of what I myself have done with the Minister of BZK and a large majority of the House with regard to transfer tax. It remains quite a complicated quest which is the most effective in terms of policy, let me just say in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u249	So the motion in part No. 7 is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u250	Yes, with pain in the heart. The same applies to the motion in part No. 8. I agree with the basic idea in itself, but I do not think I can go into this further as the outgoing Minister of Finance. There's one last tranche of money in the current housing impulse. Maybe that'll make it a little more bearable. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mrs Van Dijk: non-transferring tasks to municipalities until spring 2022. There's a lot in that motion that appeals to me in itself. I have to say, however, that I would like to explain the motion in such a way that the motion falls within the context of normal administrative relations as laid down in the law. I share very much that, of course, is also an up-to-date political debate, which must go hand in hand with powers, demarcation and money. With that appreciation, I can give this motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u251	Let me see if Mrs Van Dijk agrees with the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u252	It's actually not that hard. I have noticed a few times that a lot of small tasks are secretly handed over to municipalities from, among other things, Home Affairs, but that is every time without money. And I really want to make a statement here that we really need to stop doing that and make sure that we get things right fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u253	We'll share that with each other. There is much to say about decentralisation and how there were good intentions from virtually all parties and how harsh and repulsive the reality then turns out to be. That, moreover, calls for further consideration in the event of a formation. And therefore judge Chamber on the motion. I understand Mr Grinwis' motion, compensation for housing corporations, from his point of view, but I really have to advise as the outgoing Minister of Finance. The cabinet has already frozen the rent in the social sector this year in accordance with the Beckerman motion. There's a concession. The motion as it stands now on paper, I must advise against. Then I'll be with Mr. Stoffer. He still lives at the adage "if it's not in a motion, it doesn't count." He's asking at the motion for a resolution in part No. 11 the budget arrangements and the financial frameworks. I can give it to the Court of Justice if I may explain it to her in this way, quite a long story, but I'm going to get it up anyway to avoid any misunderstandings that I naturally fully endorse the importance of these financial agreements and that we must keep an eye on the circumstances in which we are in. Yes, you can say that we have temporarily outlawed some of the budgetary commitments we made in the coalition agreement. That was also very sensible, because we have returned to a completely different financial and economic situation. But I welcome with him the opinion of the CPB, DNB and the Council of State on transparent and prudent fiscal policies. However, in view of the missionary status of the cabinet, during this debate, but also in the broad sense, I will remain reluctant to adopt new policies. The motion in part No. 12 was the motion I was just trying to say that apparently it doesn't count if it's not in a motion. I will of course give that motion a ruling on the Chamber, because then it will still be a little more gold-plated. That brings me to the motion in part No. 13. That is an extensive motion by Mrs van der Plas. I would ask her to hold that motion because there is a lot in it, a lot in it that the cabinet can agree with, but that requires a little consultation with the Minister of LNV. With "spreading of common sense" it says "in the Lower House," but in a broader sense the cabinet, my assessment, is not against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u254	When will this alignment take place? Because we want to vote tomorrow on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u255	Is it possible to keep them longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u256	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u257	That'll be after the recess, but I'd like that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u258	Then I'm about to have the Minister of LNV call out of her bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u259	Yeah, well. That's part of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u260	Apologies. On Thursday we shall vote on the motions, not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u261	Ah, seas of time. Then I'll ask for an appreciation for Thursday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u262	Thank you. Then I would like to come back to the commitment on climate costs in the Millions note, but that will only be September. I'd like to ask if you can do that sooner. That does not have to be tomorrow, but I would like to do so in the short term, because I assume that a lot of costs are already clear, can be looked up and put on a list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u263	Yes, only, in a political sense, September is tomorrow... the day after tomorrow. So with her permission, I'm not going to try to do that with a lot of precision in the middle of the recess, but I'm going to do that with the Millions Note, because I think there might be new discussions. Then I will provide an integral overview of nitrogen and climate and say what the state of the crop is, to put it this way. Then I'll record that in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u264	I hear what you say, they always say. Still, I'm asking if we can do it sooner. I'm not gonna force you to do that. I can't do that at all at the moment either, but anything that's ahead of the Millions note, and I don't mean one day before that, it would be nice, because they're important figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u265	Then I'm gonna try to do that in a separate letter. It's more that I'm also trying to fit in a little bit with the degree of work I'm conducting in the Ministry, which is then partly double again. I'm willing to think along, but I don't think it's necessary to do it for the next two weeks. I don't think Mrs. Van der Plas is either. I will arrange for a letter to be sent at the beginning of the parliamentary year, mid-September. Then I'm going to include it in the Millions Note, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u266	Well, it's wheeling and dealing here. Then I agree. Again, I can't force you. In any case, I appreciate your efforts to bring that up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u267	I myself consider this a generous commitment, not as wheels and deals. Haha. That's what you see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u268	You also say September is tomorrow. It's not in my book either, but I can live with it for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u269	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs van der Plas for her flexibility. I'm gonna make sure that note's there in early September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u270	Thank you. Now for the appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u271	Yes. In a very good debate, I believe, in many ways, this may be a disappointing round in some respects. First of all, I have Mrs Maatoug and Mr Snels' amendment on the impact of the corona crisis on citizens. I do not recommend that amendment, and I would like to make an explanatory reference to the exchange of views during the first period. That's when I think I supported it. I thought I saw Mr Snels nodding too, but that might have been about something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u272	The amendment in part No. 4 (35850-XV) is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u273	Yes. The same applies to the next amendment tabled by Mr Snels and this time Van der Lee on additional funds for municipalities for the implementation of the Climate Agreement. I have to advise against that, too. It is an important subject, but there is no specific coverage. The whole subject is, of course, in transition at all, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u274	The amendment in part No. 5 (35850-B) is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u275	Yes. The same applies to the amendment on the establishment of a budget reserve for CO measures. I also taste a lot of hunger for all the good things that are going to come into political existence, but this is simply not for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u276	Could you please mention the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u277	Yeah, excuse me. 35850-XIII, piece No 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u278	The amendment in part No. 4 (35850-XIII) is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u279	Then I am in favour of increasing the teacher grant, an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer. A sympathetic subject, but I must also advise against this amendment. I also refer to the previous discussion. It's not about big money and I get his inspiration, but I have to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u280	The amendment in part No. 7 (35850-VIII) is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u281	Yes. Then I am in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u282	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u283	I wonder what happens to the 60 million of the implementation costs of the BIK, because that premium reduction costs nothing else. You can just enter it in a table and that BIK was a new tax. What does the Cabinet do with that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u284	What I understand is that these exonerated implementation costs of the BIK are being used to mitigate the ceiling overrun in the spring note. That's a soothing of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u285	This is the larger "the Minister of Finance sends the Chamber into the woods" answer. This is just a solid cover. That 60 million has not been deployed and can simply be deployed elsewhere. I choose teachers. Of course, you can choose anything, but the cabinet didn't. Now the Minister just says: I like to keep it up my sleeve, because there will be something else. Of course, that's not very nice. If you have a decent coverage and you can seriously... I can imagine the minister saying he wants something else, for example because he thinks DOD is more important than teachers. I don't think so, but fine, you can. But to say that... well, what does the Minister actually say? "I want to keep it in my fold?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u286	No, I have all the appreciation and sympathy for what Mr Nijboer says, but I try, of course, in all courtesy to everyone to be about as ugly as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u287	The difference is... Mr Heinen had quite a point in himself: there were uncovered amendments tabled. That is just the case, but that is not the case with this amendment. So I think it is reasonable to ask why this cannot be done in substance and what happens to that money. There is no answer to that, because that money is not intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u288	No, Mr. Nijboer will acknowledge that he will not agree and you can always discuss those definitions. I understand that the high degree of precision with regard to the budgetary rules is partly motivated by the missionary status of the cabinet, which Mr Nijboer will agree with me, but I simply do not see any room for resolving it in any other way, even if I see the pile that I still have to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u289	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u290	Finally, Mr President. If you cannot use windfalls for intensification, then the Chamber will never be able to cover an amendment again. This isn't even a fluke. These are just implementation costs that... This is just... When is an amendment from the Chamber still covered if you cannot do a cover for something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u291	I understand. I also understand from Mr Nijboer. I now see no other solution in terms of substance or politics. I'd almost say my sympathy gets the motion for free. But, of course, that's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u292	The Minister will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u293	I have to discourage the motion. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 5 (35850-VII) by Mr Westerveld on ventilation in school buildings. I thought I solved that in the first term, too. I must also advise against this with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u294	The motion in part No. 5 is not recommended; the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u295	I am therefore in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld to item No. 6 (35850-VIII) on a one-off 12 million: also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u296	The amendment in part No. 6 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u297	Yeah, excuse, in part no. 6. Then again Kwint to piece No. 5 (35850-VIII) on closing the pay gap between p.o. and vo. That is an important subject. This must be done in this case by increasing the banking tax. I am not going to repeat the squeezing of revenue and expenditure here, but I must advise against that motion. I refer to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u298	The amendment in part No. 5 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u299	Sorry, amendment, chairman. It's always complicated. Then Members Marijnissen and Alkaya on the structural increase in healthcare salaries. Also the motion in part No. 3 I must advise against. For that I have to refer to the previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u300	The amendment in part No. 3 (35850-XVI) is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u301	I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 3 (35850-B) by Mr Van Kent to add 200 million to the Municipal Fund. I have to advise against that, too. To be honest, I do not see any reason at the moment to put 200 million into that. To be honest, we have also had a real eye for the target group. Think, for example, of the TONK and the 146 million accompanying policy. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission I need to say a few things about that. I have just said that I agree with him on some corona receipts, how you should appreciate them and how that went. We agree on that. What I also want to promise him is that, for example, through the formula he just suggested, we are trying to fix this in close dialogue with the Minister of OCW, with whom I have had contact, also towards August. Given my appreciation and motivation for the other amendments, see also the exchange of views with Mr Nijboer, I would have liked only to have it in a motion and not in an amendment. So I am not getting away from dissuading the amendment, but I would say to Mr Van Weyenberg that the amendment would not succeed, and then I will work with the Minister of OCW on the inspiration of the amendment. In my view, this is how I do it in a fair and good way. Mr. Chairman. Then I made all the amendments, all the motions and all the remaining questions. It won't be entirely to everyone's satisfaction, but I hope given the time maybe come close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u302	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate, after a rather eventful evening. I think it is a night that we will all remember because of what happened to Mr Peter R. de Vries. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-tweedekamer-47.u303	We are going to vote on Thursday on all the supplementary budgets related to the Spring paper, the amendments tabled to them and the motions for resolutions.
