ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Temporary Law Groningen concerning the strengthening of buildings in the province of Groningen, Room 35603. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Are you going to read all those pieces? Yes, you have indeed filled in half an hour's speaking time. Go ahead, Mrs. Beckerman. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	The report on the premium affair is called unprecedented injustice. What has been done to the victims in the supplementing affair is very painfully recognizable to the people of Groningen: being crushed by their own government, having no chance, waiting for years, fighting for years and getting suspicious for years. But the injustice in Groningen was and is not unknown. It was known. The cabinet knew and did it anyway. The injustice was known. In 2018, Prime Minister Mark Rutte said he was deeply sorry and apologized. In 2019 Prime Minister Mark Rutte even apologized three times. In 2021, Prime Minister Mark Rutte said it was a stain on his prime ministership. But with "sorry" you don't fix the rule of law. We need action. For years, the Cabinet has known that homes and people are destroyed by the way the government deals with them. For years, solutions have not been possible. The disaster in Groningen is a well-known injustice and the cabinet is still completely inadequate to stop it. And this law in this form isn't gonna stop it. This law is yet another addition to the bureaucratic swamp created by the government. Tens of thousands of Groningers are still waiting, like Bianca from Woltersum, who lives with her husband and her sons in a living unit next to their own house. They can't live in their own house anymore. Already in January 2018 the inspection was for the reinforcement, but they are still waiting. She writes to me: "We live next to our dream, which is now a nightmare. Our story is one of many. I sincerely hope this is one of the last times I have to tell you. We're done fighting. Can you imagine what it's like if you can't answer your children's questions about why there's no solution?" Marleen from Ten Post has been waiting for reinforcements for six years. Five times she got a schedule of what would happen. Five times that planning was withdrawn. She now writes to me: "We have no view. We don't have a future. We've got frustration. We have anger. We have vermin in the house. And that's not being heard. The battle is no longer to be done. We're fighting the Beer Cay." Can you imagine what so many years wait and make so many empty promises from The Hague with you? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes it's not even words that touch you, but a look is enough. This weekend I was at the farm of Eltje and Alida in Siddeburen. On both sides of the farm there are a few struts. For years they have been both in a process for repairing damage and in a process for strengthening. But nothing's happened yet. They did receive another 600-page report. Alida says, "After all these years, the pressure is so high, how long can you keep this up? This is worse than a broken house." Can you imagine the despair you get when you wait for years and put up struts because the walls are so bad, but there's no solution and you're not taken seriously? Mr. Chairman. I would like to offer the cabinet and the MPs a black book with some 200 stories from the corrupted who were written down between October 2019 and now. Those stories show what's wrong and how homes and people break down. But the stories also show what is needed now. And what is needed now to stop the known injustice in Groningen is a crisis approach. For years, the supervisor has insisted that the only thing that works to tackle this disaster is a crisis approach. The cabinet doesn't do that again. I'd like to ask why not. Your own supervisor has warned that the reinforcement will take another 20 years if there is no crisis approach with one final responsible party. But what does the Cabinet keep doing? It continues to treat damage and strengthening as two separate pathways. It hasn't worked in years. It's an absurd divorce. 'Cause what do we do now? Trajectory one is about damage. If you have any damage, this will be cosmetically repaired. Cracks start over and over and over again. Trajectory two is about reinforcements. That is still based on a computer model in which in theory all houses are whole. Since its launch in 2015, only about 5% of the houses on the list have been really addressed. Everyone has been warning us for years that this isn't working. Your own supervisor says so. The UN Human Rights Organisation is calling on you to do so. The Supreme Court rightly says that residents have one problem with one cause and that they want one solution. Last month, research carried out by Tom Postmes and Katherine Stroebe, among others, showed that even the people working at the authorities for damage and fortifications find it crazy. But once again, you do not come up with a crisis approach. We have tabled an amendment to do so. If there is a big common denominator in the black book, it is the lack of a crisis approach: a bureaucratic swamp in which people drown and contempt and neglect of problems. In the previous black book, because this is not the first black book, there was a story of Steven Bernardus. He wrote this when his family was in a swap house for damages. He asked to do an inspection for reinforcements while he was in that swap house, but he wasn't allowed to do that. In March 2018 he wrote: our life is very still, help! But Steven's not in the black book that's in front of us right now. He died at the end of last year. Yesterday I spoke to his son Vincent who must now continue the fight. They haven't made much progress yet. They are both in a process of repairing damage and in a process of strengthening. Vincent says we don't stand a chance, we can't win this. He also says: I don't need anything, I just want to be helped, we just want a home again. When I said they didn't make any progress, I said something wrong, because they now have a rent debt of €5,000. Why? Because the Special Situations Committee did not pay first, because they had to separate from the NAM and that same committee is now waiting for the government. This is how people get crushed. This is why we need a crisis approach. This is also evident from new research by Postmes, Stroebe and others. They concluded yesterday: "The picture is that after six to eight years of plundering with authorities and procedures, many have reached or exceeded the limit of what can be handled. Health, well-being and enjoyment are too much disturbed." And also, "they're system victims." Their call is: continue to pay attention to the psychosocial impact of gas extraction and integrate damage and reinforcement. Mr. Chairman. One of the problems where painfully good is that the current approach, where damage and reinforcement are separate pathways, does not work, is the foundation damage. Earlier I held up a large picture of a wall of Femke Braamhorst. She had one crack: a crack in the foundation and wall. But IMG just wants to pay for the part in the wall. Or take Cees Wildervanck from Overschild, who has been begging for years, first at the NAM, then at CVW, then at TCMG and then at IMG. It's still stuck. So what's he getting now? A reinforcement document, which states: Before we begin to strengthen, the damage to the foundations must first be repaired. So from 2013 he knows that the foundation is broken and he knocks on every agency. No one's helping. In 2021, the reinforcement can't start until that foundation is restored. He's nothing more. He says in the black book: it is a sickening tradition of deceit, bias, dedain and distrust and the resulting shameless disrespect towards the duped of gas extraction in Groningen hurts more than a hundred cracks in the wall. Mr. Chairman. This law continues that tradition and makes the situation worse. Because you want to scale down the reinforcements, but that's how people stay stuck with damage to foundations. Also, IMG, which rejects these damages itself, is now in favour of compensating for these damages. The question then is: what is the cabinet going to do? The Civil Code is perfectly clear: not only damage that is already there must be repaired; damage must also be prevented and limited. Then why is it put into the law this way? Mr. Chairman. The Groninger Bottom Movement, the Groninger Gasberaad and the Vereniging Eigen Huis together make an urgent appeal to the Lower House not to adopt this law in this way. They say: first place the people of Groningen first. And this law does not do so, not only because of the lack of a crisis approach, but also because of the combination of damage recovery and reinforcement. Innumerable promises have been made by the cabinet that the resident must be at the centre. I think a lot of Groningers can't hear the phrase "direction to the residents" anymore. It sounds nice, but over and over again it turned out to be an empty promise. "We're going to make real pace now," has also been said a lot. But it still doesn't work out. Why this time? Last year a gear package was promised: the so-called building impulse. Promise was made that the promises are still made on the website of the company that 1,100 homes will be strengthened more quickly, that the owner himself will be directed on the reinforcement and that both the owner and the contractor will be involved from the start. Fantastic words, and now the practice. Peter Bouwman and Kirsten de Jong live in a monumental farm. They want control in their own hands. They are, not of their own choice, classified into that build impulse. But five of the six builders of the construction impulse are not allowed to reinforce a monument at all. And even if they were at the forefront of the heritage building planning process, they could sign a contract of acceptance by June 2022 at the earliest. And then the work still has to start, while there is another contractor who has already strengthened monuments and can go straight to work. But NCG won't allow it, because it's in violation of the procedures. They are already classified in the construction impulse. Peter writes to me: it's all too crazy for words; delays don't happen because there wouldn't be any contractors, but simply because a huge bureaucratic wall has been erected that can't be climbed; we're going crazy about this. I would like to know from the Minister how the new law will solve this. There has been so many calls for attention to monuments, to farms, to people who are completely stuck in bureaucracy. How are you finally gonna fix this? We are tabling several amendments on this subject. One of the ways in which this law does not cause acceleration, but rather delay, is the following. If you are through that whole process, there is an assessment and there could be a start, the law says: the minister will have another year to think about it. A year's time to think about that! The cabinet's own supervisor concludes that this year's term means that we can no longer ensure that people have a safe home by 2025. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then the amendment "right to what you had." We now see that residents get beautiful promises at demolition/new construction: you get back what you had. But in practice, it isn't. In the black book there are stories of people who have had to make debts, of residents in batch 1588 who get a big smaller house by pinching rules, of tenants who still have to fight. I ask the cabinet: why don't we just include in the law that people are entitled to what they had? We have put forward a proposal for this. Mr. Chairman. Then there's transparency. A lot of residents don't know what they're up to. They're being talked about, but they're not talking to them. There are risk profiles of their homes they don't know. Why aren't they shared with the residents? You want to know what you're up to, don't you? We have tabled an amendment to that too. Mr. Chairman. Also the position of residents should be better in this law. It is not for nothing that everyone, all residents, all their organizations, keeps asking: finally put the inhabitant at the centre, and stop our distrust. We have tabled amendments to that too. Why don't we make a legal statement that residents can direct themselves, where they also get a budget if they want to take care of everything themselves? Why is the law limited to a number of municipalities, when we know that there are homes out there with serious damage? Mr. Chairman. Residents have been fighting unequally for years. As Vincent Bernardus said, we don't stand a chance, we can't win this. What we should do today is strengthen the legal status of residents. That's what we learned from that supplemental affair, isn't it? But now the law is being amended so that the minister's duty of care is removed from the law. The article which provides that the Minister must take all measures that can reasonably be requested from him to prevent any damage to safety resulting from the extraction of gas from the Groningen field is deleted. Why? I'll ask the cabinet. Your own supervisor also finds it very undesirable to delete it. We have also tabled an amendment on this point. A lot of laws provide that if the government exceeds its own deadlines, it has to pay a penalty payment. And it is precisely in this law, especially in this file where residents have been waiting and fighting for so many years, that is not settled. We also have an amendment to this effect. I would like to know from the cabinet how things stand on the other side. It's only just begun to compensate for the fall in value, and it's already causing injustice. Some get too little, others get nothing. One neighbor does, the other doesn't. It increases inequality; the inequality that is already so great. It magnifies the cracks between humans. People who were previously underpaid by the NAM do not receive compensation. They sometimes get tens of thousands of euros too little, people in debt. It's known injustice. Are we gonna do it today, or are we gonna wait for research again, for more stories? For many residents this is another burden on top of it. We can change that today. And then the compensation for intangible damage, for the suffering caused to Groningers, must begin after all these years. Finally, Mr President. Many people have already pointed out: the parallels between the premium affair and the disaster in Groningen are so enormous. The distrust of those who have been hurt by their own government. To crush the people by the government. I would like to draw three quotes from the letter from the cabinet that it wrote in response to the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on the Surcharges affair. The first quote of the cabinet: "The report requires us to look critically at the functioning of the entire government. Because we don't want it to go wrong like this again." Two: "The report of Unfamiliar injustice makes it clear that the government should listen better to critical noises from, for example, parents, lawyers, media and supervisors. Emergency calls from disabled parents were not picked up on the childcare allowance for too long." And as a quote three, under the heading "Human measure," the promise is: "People are always helped in an understandable way and not sent from the cabinet to the wall." So you know this. And you also know that this is exactly what goes wrong in Groningen. And we sometimes wonder: why push through this law in this way? Or more positively: this is the first chance to show that you have learned something from the supplementing affair. Mr. Chairman. The black book also contains the story of Dieta Kruzinga. I've told you before in this room. She's had damage since 1999, and she's still waiting and fighting. And yesterday she made an emotional appeal to the NIS. Quite simply, her quote: "Just listen to your citizens." That would be my last call here, too. On Saturday, the cabinet had a conversation with supplemental affair parents at the Catshuis. Now invite the Groningen too. Don't move on to the order of the day, don't move on. Solve this well-known injustice at last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is a sad story that Mrs Beckerman tells here, and impressing, I think. I would like to say in advance that I am entering this debate without knowing whether or not the Green Left Group will support the legislative proposal, so I will ask a lot of questions to the cabinet but also to the other groups. Mrs Beckerman pleads for a crisis approach, while there is a legislative proposal before us. And Mrs Beckerman has made a lot of amendments to improve the bill. My question to Mrs Beckerman is: how does she see it? If the bill is rejected, there is nothing, not even a crisis approach. If the bill is passed with the amendments of the SP, has it become a good bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think this is the essential question, and also a struggle that we ourselves have had for years. And maybe I can answer a little longer. I do not think this is a debate for soundbites, I find it very difficult to answer this in some sort of electoral cries. I'd like to go back to 2015. Until then, the NAM had always dealt with the damage. Then an institute started: the Centre Safe Living. On day one, the SP Group said that this is not independent. And it was said to us: this is a step in the right direction, give them a chance, we haven't even started yet. After six months we noticed that the injured did not get what they were entitled to and then it was still said: yes, but a very large part gets it and give them some time. After a year, we said, "This is really gonna go wrong." And then it was said: okay, but then we are going to make improvements, because a step in the right direction is better than nothing. After two years we found out: this isn't working, this is terrible. After two years, the damage treatment was completely, completely stopped. I have been engaged in this debate for so many years now and every time the supervisor says: crisis approach. People get stuck, people get sick. That report again today. Then I look back at 2015 and I think: should we always be happy with a small step forward? I'm happy with every duped who gets helped, but if we don't keep doing what's really necessary, then I wonder if more people aren't going to get crushed. That's a struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	The report mentioned by Mrs Beckerman also states that progress has been made, that there are people who are satisfied and that there is also a large group of 9% who are in misery. So steps have been taken forward. But again, if we do not adopt this bill, there is no alternative approach. What does that mean for the duped? Will they be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	That is, of course, a difficult reproach to make to us. That is, of course, the eternal problem. I have been advocating this crisis approach here for four years. Very often, this proposal has been voted down with a different vote. And then you can't ask us if it's gonna be okay the way it is now. No, that's exactly why we've been working on this for four years. I cannot even count how many proposals my party has put forward on this issue. We now have eight amendments to this law, because we see that it is necessary to move forward. It's not for nothing that we've put so much time in it. It is very difficult to see how people are really destroyed; you can read these stories. So I really think this is a real struggle and I'm not going to turn this into another policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	That's what it is for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Too many Groningers still feel unsafe and are not out of the woods yet and have no clarity yet. As a result, trust is, rightly, still far too low. Even though steps have been taken recently, we are not there yet. Those steps are good in themselves. Gas extraction is reduced to zero. There's a National Program Groningen. Arrangements have been put in place for intangible damage and depreciation, and new arrangements have been made with the region, making an additional €1.5 billion available. But as long as the reinforcement is slow, the confidence of the Groningen people will rightly not yet be there. This law is again a follow-up to the Groningen file. The legislative proposal aims to ensure that the money from the schemes reaches the Groningers as soon as possible, that Groningers himself gets more control over the strengthening process and that there is more coordination. The ultimate goal is, of course, to speed up with that reinforcement. The question which naturally comes first and which I also ask the Minister is how this bill contributes to it. As far as we are concerned, it is a good thing that this law is now in place, but as a VVD we still want improvements to this law, which I will come back to later. I am well aware that this law is only paper. The law can help solve the problems of the Groningen, but as the English say so beautifully: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is also mainly about the implementation and that is right to put a great deal of pressure on the implementing agencies, such as the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen and the National Coordinator Groningen. But of course that also puts pressure on the Empire and the regional authorities, because only together can we take this up and solve it. Mr. Chairman. According to the VVD, anyone who visits the residents should be: how can I solve it for you? The Social Charter Groningen of the Groninger Soil Movement, the Groninger Gas Council and the Association of Own House also ask this: move in the perspective of the residents. Not just looking at the processes and procedures, but looking for opportunities and solutions. And certainly not "the computer says no." Groningers should no longer have to fight the institutions and should not be sent from the cabinet to the wall. Because unfortunately, we still see too many people getting bogged down in the swamp. Who's gonna solve the problem of the tear in the wall? Mrs Beckerman mentioned this as well. And who should solve the problem of the foundation? That shouldn't really be the problem of those residents. I would like to hear a response from the ministers. There are many complaints about the confluence of damage recovery and reinforcement, while the cabinet indicates that this is very rare. What exactly is that about? 'Cause you hear it all the time. Can the ministers respond to this? The question is whether reinforcement can not also partially prevent the damage. More preventive looking and working makes a lot of sense. The Groninger Gas Council also indicates this. How are the ministers looking at this and what is or is it being designed? Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, a cooperation agreement between the IMG and the NCG. In this law there is a hook, so the minister can set rules for cooperation. But as far as we're concerned, that's too thin. We want the law to state that the two parties have a duty to cooperate and to agree. And we want the law to say that there are rules for cooperation and coordination, and that this is not optional. As far as we are concerned, we must at least agree on one case-handler. As far as we are concerned, the owner of the property may choose which authority delivers it. The same applies to the sharing of information. But more needs to be done about that. It cannot be that one authority does not know what the other authority is doing. The VVD also wants politics to be better placed to keep their finger on the pulse. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. I told you, paper is patient. Therefore, the NCG and the IMG must also work on their working methods and culture. My experience is that it is not so much the structure that determines whether something works well, but that it is mainly culture and people that determine it. The approach of everyone working at the NCG and the IMG should be solution-oriented. How are the ministers looking at this and how are they working on it? I have a motion for this in the second term, if necessary. What also returns regularly is the call for a powerful and unambiguous direction. There are many parties involved in the whole strengthening process. That's a fact. How does this law contribute to a powerful and unambiguous direction? In terms of strengthening and repairing damage, it may be well arranged on paper, but in practice we still hear far too many complaints: it is too bureaucratic, too much from rules and the system and there are kafkaesque situations. The anchoring of better coordination and cooperation between the NCG and the IMG can contribute to this. How are the ministers looking at this and what are the experiences of spreading tasks around the Groningen dossier across two ministries? There is part of the Ministry of EZK and part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have been listening to Mrs De Vries from the VVD. It did appeal to me that she said that not only a system change is needed, but also, above all, a change of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Sienot, you're almost unheard. That one mic isn't doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'm so tall, aren't I? Is that better? Madam President. It appealed to me, however, that Mrs De Vries said that it is not only a system change, but certainly also a change of culture, of approach. And that culture, of course, we make it together. Mrs De Vries has been a spokesperson in this area for some time now. So I am very curious what she is thinking about when we are talking about changing culture and finally ensuring that Groningers get solid houses faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think that's very complex. I think culture is the most complicated thing to change. We need to give room and confidence to implementing agencies and perhaps also to overlook the moment when the rules are being drawn out of line. I am thinking, for example, of a solution as laid down in the administrative arrangements for the bottlenecks budget. Just put down a bag of money where things that may not be entirely up to the rules can be used as an opportunity. We must give that confidence to organisations, but we must also make it clear that we want this solution to be based on politics. We must make it clear that we want these solutions and not think in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	That sounds very encouraging. Then I have a follow-up question. One of the things we learned in unprecedented injustice is that you have to respond very quickly to signals. I agree with Mrs Beckerman that this organisation has actually failed. How is the VVD going to change that in a next cabinet, perhaps as the largest party? How does it react more quickly to these signals? And is the reinforcement in Groningen really a top priority, something that needs to be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	I fully agree with the latter. I think that first answer is much more complicated. Unfortunately, there is no quick fix. I wish I had him and I could take care of it that way. I think it is important that we look at what these implementing bodies need, but that we also address them when things are just not going well. I think that we are all talking about things that are not going well, for example the issue of depreciation, in a very broad sense, debates in committee. That's what Mrs Beckerman was talking about. That just doesn't feel good and then you should also be willing to see how you can solve that in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	The microphone's just been cleaned. No, of course you can move on, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	Finishing at this point. Of course, there's a bit of a problem here. On the one hand, say 'there must be a cultural change', which we all agree on, and then reply on request: 'it is difficult to touch'. I agree with that, but doesn't it mainly have to do with the organisation of a certain ability to act that is being carried through quickly and quickly? And if there are no improvements, such as those that are not being achieved, should there not be any quicker consequences? Shouldn't we be acting on that much faster in a next cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	I always find it complicated that if something goes wrong, we all have to say here again: this is not okay, that's not okay. That can also have a crippling effect on implementing agencies who think: now I dare not do anything anymore, because before you know it you will be in an oral Question Time in the House of Representatives, because the weather is not going well. That doesn't mean you shouldn't name it and not get on with it. However, I think that we have taken this kind of case-by-case approach in recent times and that it is important that we look together with the people in the region to see how we can solve the problems in those cases. When I look at the administrative arrangements, there really are a number of things that we thought were very important. I think everyone here has fought for the forgotten corner in Appingedam. I think everyone thought it was important to have a bottlenecks budget. Yeah, it always takes too long for you to feel, absolutely. I think everyone here has that impatience too, but I am happy with those steps that we can take in the interests of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. Can the Ministers also indicate that a year after the adoption of this law a test of implementation will take place in order to deal quickly with and resolve the bottlenecks that are still emerging in the implementation process? Perhaps I will meet Mr Sienot there as well. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debates, we as a VVD indicated that we would like to speed up the procedures for strengthening. Co-ordinated treatment of the reinforcement decision with the municipal permit procedures can be good to avoid delay. First of all, whether this applies to the provincial licensing procedures. But the procedure will take as long as the slowest procedure takes. So just coordination isn't enough. Recently there was an example in the news where a farmer has been waiting a year and a half for a permit from the province to repair the leaking dungeon. That can't be true, can it? How will this be improved in the future and how will the ministers solve these problems? The administrative arrangements at the end of last year, in the so-called regional deal, also agreed on the alignment of permits. At that time we indicated that we found this rather vague and that alignment is not yet acceleration. Minister Ollongren then agreed to deal with the province and municipality or the coordination of permits. How far along is that? When can we get these appointments and are there also agreements made with the NCG and the supervisor AVCG, who have already checked all the calculations once so that they do not cheerfully repeat these calculations by the municipality? I have also recently mentioned an example of the NCG's control department. It shouldn't be difficult to do about a driving plate for construction, which is just a bit cheaper elsewhere. Let's just not do that stuff anymore. Previously, the VVD has also made a point of the problem of the Nb permit that the builders have often been frustrated at the pace with the reinforcement. The note on the report states that it is covered by the exemption for the vulture, the house sparrow and the bat, because these are the building-inhabiting species that are relevant in the context of the reinforcement operation. Can I conclude from this that this problem has been solved, that the builders do not need to take account of these species, that there is a generic exemption and that this can never cause delays in start-up and reinforcement during construction? The VVD has received other signals from the builders in the area. The complaint is that this construction could only be started in a limited period of time. Mr. Chairman. The decision on reinforcement shall be taken within one year. It's legal. Why can't we go any faster? What guarantees are there that this will happen as soon as possible? The NCG aims to accelerate the adoption of the strengthening decision, but the one-year deadline may even be extended once by the NCG for a reasonable period in particular cases. What are these special cases and what is the reasonable period of time? Can the Ministers give a few examples of this? Mr. Chairman. The VVD has already regularly asked for a planning of the reinforcement task. Unfortunately, it is still not there, but it is crucial. The planning can provide more clarity for the Groningers. It is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2021. The VVD wants to know why such a multiannual reinforcement plan should not be legally anchored. Is Minister Ollongren still on track towards that second quarter of 2021? And why can't it be sooner? The municipalities determine the prioritisation of the reinforcement, and it is of course a good thing that these kinds of decisions are taken as locally as possible and as closely as possible to the people. But don't you get a situation where the easy standard buildings are done first, those of corporations and government buildings such as schools, or those buildings in an area where the municipality would like to develop territory. The VVD is concerned about the several hundred houses that are not expected to fall within the same type of buildings or group of buildings, such as detached houses in rural areas, partly older buildings or heritage, and are often owned by SMEs and farmers. We often see poignant cases of people who have been waiting for a long time. As far as we are concerned, priority must be given to buildings with the highest risks. It must be avoided that these are the final ones. The VVD wants to know how this was secured. We're considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned earlier the Social Charter Groningen, which says 'prevent pre-emptive tax consequences for residents'. The VVD has asked for this before. Is that sufficiently well arranged and secured? Finally, Mr President. I hope that, as political parties, we can work together to find solutions for the Groningen people, as well as for the Corona approach. Whether we're opposition or former coalition, I think we all want the same thing. So let us work together to do that and not stand up to each other, because I do not think that will ultimately benefit the Groningen people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u25	I would like to ask a question about those last words. We have now heard the speech of the VVD and the call to do it together, opposition and coalition. How does the VVD view Mrs Beckerman's speech from the SP? Does she see any clues in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think there's a lot of similarities in the story. I think we're all pulling on the same side of the rope here. We want solutions for the Groningers. I look open to all the proposals that come along and I would like to hear the Ministers' response to them. If the law now provides for a period of one year, and we would bring it back to four months, as Mrs Beckerman proposes, when it is totally unenforceable, we would be fooling people. I wouldn't want to do that either. I would really like a good response from the ministers. I'm willing to look open. Can we improve the law on points? We have also tabled an amendment to it ourselves. I think we should all work together to see how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today we discuss with each other the long-awaited Backup Act. This law is consistent with the Damage Act that we discussed with each other on 14 January 2020. The aim of these laws is that the Dutch Petroleum Company, the NAM, no longer has a decision-making role in the handling and strengthening of damages. Why was the goal of putting the NAM remotely? That was because we had the expectation that the widely used and desired word "beautiful" would become really generous and that residents could turn their own buttons when it comes to their property. On the basis of my lap along the fields, which I always make in the run-up to a debate, I will name the things that have struck me. I'll also go into the law. The State surveillance of the Mines has already indicated early that a crisis approach and one organisation that could be used by residents were the conditions. That's not the route of both these laws. Can the Ministers say again today why this route has been chosen? Civil society organisations indicate that the adoption of the law doesn't really change anything. In fact, according to them, it gets worse, even so bad that they wanted this law to become controversial. The Groninger Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement would rather have no law than this law. We are allowed to discuss everything in the House of Representatives, but this is not the case. And, Mr. Chairman, I think that's quite something. I really don't like that even talking about the law shouldn't be allowed. I do not think that is a solution either, because before there is a new cabinet with possibly a new law, we will be another year. The whole handling of the reinforcement and damage has been going on for so long. My group also sees that this law is breaking. But in order to explain it controversially and possibly to encourage a delay, I do not think it is sensible. That's why I had an open and honest conversation with them. They too see this side, I have noticed, as witnessed this morning's speech in the newspaper. Of course, they also have suggestions about the law. Of course, I have an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u29	I thought for a moment: Mrs Agnes Mulder is going to kick the ass of the civil society organisations involved. The objective of declaring controversial is that, if a cabinet has resigned, there will be a new cabinet after the elections that wants fundamentally different things. That's the idea of explaining something controversial. It is precisely with this proposal that I can well imagine. For example, my own election programme separates 10 billion and gives residents and municipalities the responsibility to give their village a future instead of such a safety standard and the HRA model that lies below. That's the idea of controversial explanation. You leave the room to the voter to speak out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mrs Beckerman just mentioned the other major issue in our Parliament: the premium affair. She said that it is important that we continue and not delay. That's what I've been thinking about here. You don't have to postpone it, but you have to keep working on it now. It is these two issues that I would not like to make controversial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u31	You can think different about that. My thesis is that if you choose a half-baked solution, you better not do it. To be honest, I have learned that from the miserable child care provider myself. At the end of the day, I voted in favour of the law that parents had to compensate, with the warning: this is going to take far too long, it is going to get stuck, choose a different approach. In the end, the cabinet gave €30,000 a six months later, and that doesn't go far enough either. So I wouldn't do that again. I really call on Mrs Agnes Mulder to vote only for a law that makes it structurally better for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u32	I understand that call, but that doesn't mean we can't have the conversation here. Mrs Bromet said at the beginning that she is waiting for the debate and the answers on the side we are going to take and which we are choosing. That goes for me, too. The law must eventually become so good that we can live with all the adjustments and move on. I do not want to throw that option overboard in advance by declaring it controversial. Actually, I'm being deprived of that opportunity. I want that named here, because I think it's okay to discuss it. Otherwise, you might get delays, something you're really not helping the Groningers with. That is what I wanted to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u34	The fact that a legal anchor is good has also been written by a valued professor in an article that will soon be published in the Dutch Juristenblad. The fact that you want to legally anchor something and improve it is not in itself a wrong route. Our group is struggling with this law. That struggle is precisely on the comments made by the Council of State. In essence, it advises: give the municipalities an advisory right and not a formal law in the law. I haven't heard anything about the municipalities wanting this role. I therefore ask both ministers: is that really true? Do they really want this part? Are they convinced of that? I think it's very quiet from the city of Groningen. In fact, the signals I've been getting are going the other way. Take the signal about the letter that should have gone out at the end of last year, as agreed in the governance agreement. The 13,000 households would receive this letter by the end of the year. The congregations were right in front of that, because they had doubts about the letter and thought there would be a lot of questions about it. They also came by the way, but that letter should of course have gone out on behalf of the National Coordinator Groningen and the questions should have ended up with the NCG. The assessment that there would be questions was correct. That's what I heard from the local representatives and aldermen. Those questions did come true. They ended up with the NCG. Our people said that the NCG then sent these residents to the municipality, who didn't know what to do with them and with a mouth full of teeth. So this doesn't work, is our conclusion. The reason may be that the organisation of the NCG has not yet reached full maturity. However, it may also be that not everyone is equally stable, does not know what their tasks are and how those tasks and roles are carried out in practice. This is undesirable. I would like to hear from the ministers how this law relates to the administrative agreement and how this law is going to solve this problem. Do they recognize these signals? What are they going to do about it? In the research of Postmes and Stroebe of January this year, one of the professionals says: the fear of spending a dime too much costs a tenner. That comes from an attitude of mistrust. That's what you feel as a resident, and that's what makes deep wounds. Last year I was with colleague Nijboer with participants of Heft in Eigen Hand. The examples they gave were exemplary for this behavior. Employees of the NCG stray from the internet for the cheapest riding plates, as Mr De Vries indicated during one of the debates. There were two decent offers, but approval was different. I thought you said it was cheaper. There would be a dime too much paid! That's not supposed to be their job, is it? They need to check prices against a benchmark and look at crazy things in a bigger picture. If excessive offers are made in relation to the rest of the country, that is the point that should be discussed. Admittedly, I also hear stories of people who feel that too much is being paid out. On that side, too, that gives rise to displeasure. In the report of the University of Groningen in January, professionals indicate that there is uncertainty about the direction in a reinforcement notice and that mandates are lacking. Professionals of the municipalities indicate to struggle with the duty of care to the inhabitants. They are contact and client, but the NCG is about it. The State surveillance of the Mines notes that as a result the resident has insufficient overview and control of the process. The resident, for example from the group Heft in Eigen Hand, wants it to be properly arranged for the other residents as well. That's why they talked to the NCG. I'd like to hear from the Minister today what came out of it. Are they being heard? What's going on with the Appingedam neighborhood, the minister's litmus test? Can she say anything about that? How many homes have been strengthened by now? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants the law to put the residents at the centre. The aim is to put the residents at the centre of the reinforcement operation and to keep control of what happens or does not happen to their home or business building. We believe that this is very important. It is also important that there is one central point of contact for residents. For the reinforcement it should be the National Coordinator Groningen, with residents from the beginning of the reinforcement process up to and including the aftercare after delivery for support. If someone suffers more damage, then what weighs more must weigh the hardest. I would like to leave the judgment on who coordinates to the inhabitants themselves. The bill does take important steps, but we're not there yet. From the region I hear sounds that the law on reinforcement as it now stands for residents does not actually improve the handling of the gas file. It is said that nothing will go wrong if the law does not enter into force immediately, because the need for the implementation of this law is not really there yet. Can the Minister respond to this criticism from the region? What will go wrong if this law of reinforcement is not introduced? And what exactly makes the bill possible without this law? I also hear criticism that the law is not in line with all the opinions that have been issued in recent years, including through State supervision of the Mines, the National Ombudsman, the Independent Councilman and the University of Groningen. Can the ministers comment on this? To what extent do they consider this to be the case or not? How has this been incorporated into the proposal and how does the Ministers consider the appeal of the Association of Home Affairs, together with the Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement, as my colleagues have already asked? Another point on which I am receiving signals: there is a lack of a thorough implementation test on this proposal. As a result, there are still many questions in the region about how things will work in practice. Can the Minister answer that? Following on from the previous question: I hear noises that the NCG has not implemented the methodology described therein until one and a half years after the adoption of the policy rules. In the meantime, however, we have all come to the conclusion that we want things to be different. Hence this law. Can the Minister indicate how long it will take for the amendments that this bill entails to be implemented in the NCG's working methods? From the point of view of the residents, it is important that there is one central point of contact, where they can go from the beginning of the reinforcement process to aftercare after delivery. For the backup, that would be the NCG. But he has not quite got his hands open yet and there are still too many parties who have something to say about the reinforcement operation. It is therefore necessary to clarify the mandate, the perseverance and the freedom of policy of the National Coordinator Groningen in the implementation of the reinforcement operation. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. As far as the CDA is concerned, this means, among other things, that the NCG is not only able to take decisions that are necessary for reasons of safety but can also take decisions on measures that promote the reinforcement operation or which are necessary for reasonable and equitable reasons. In doing so, the NCG is given the policy freedom necessary to apply tailor-made solutions that are reasonable for the implementation of the reinforcement. In my view, this should apply to the situation in which the owner is faced with the reinforcement, while at the same time there is a loss path. Even so, the NCG should be able to provide guidance and coordination on both sides, i.e. both the reinforcement and the damage. At the back, the NCG and the IMG will have to agree on that. That shouldn't bother the owners. In the end, therefore, the NCG should be the point of contact where residents can turn to all questions, even if the reinforcement coincides with damage, unless a resident wishes otherwise. The VVD has also tabled an amendment on this. I can imagine that, in order to make all this possible and to enable the CNG to fulfil this role, it may also be necessary to further strengthen this organisation. How does the Minister see that? Can she indicate what she thinks the NCG needs to fulfil the role I just outlined and what improvements are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u35	I hear Mrs Mulder say that where the reinforcement and recovery run together, this should be taken together through the NCG. That sounds like music to me. The one-stop-shop idea. Now many residents also attach great importance to finding a number of sustainable measures for their homes. It's the same house, so it's kind of crazy if you turn your whole house upside down and then have to take more sustainable measures later. Can you imagine that this will be accompanied by sustainable measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes. We have talked about this in the past. Residents say what they need to know. Sometimes that leads to additional delays, so you have to accept them when you need that reinforcement to reduce the risks as quickly as possible. So if it's a choice of the resident, who accepts the delay and doesn't harm his neighbors or something... Because of course there is another difficult situation, because if you live in a row, how do you make sustainability and reinforcement? I think you should take a good look at that. So basically I say, where you can pair that up, of course do it right, because then you're only in the mess once. But if that is not possible, and it is really necessary to do that damage and reinforcement first and at a later stage the sustainability, then that must be a choice of that resident.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u37	I hear Mrs Mulder say: if it is the choice of the resident, you must strive for it as much as possible, but ensure that safety is guaranteed. That makes sense to me. Personally, and I don't know how she sees it, I can hardly imagine that the laying of solar panels and the installation of some sprouting wall insulation, which sometimes cares very much, is now the great delaying factor. So that's what I'm really curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u38	We had a conversation with some people from Groningen. They indicated that that didn't always work out well and that if they could have chosen afterwards, maybe they wouldn't have let it run together. We're getting those signals, too. It's my concern that it's up to the resident himself. But then they also know that this may cause delays. But then it's your choice. That is the choice it has had for so long in Groningen with the inhabitants of the houses, their own homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr President, thank you. Eventually, residents in one place should have the clarity about what happens to their homes. It must be clear to everyone what the process is. That must be transparent and follow-up. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. Residents, of course, prefer to see only one intervention in their home. The Gasberaad therefore suggests to work with one plan for the home, with one case manager, one trial and one decision. This could, for example, start with the list of residents who have applied for admission on request, with the particular situations and with the addresses of repeated damages. What are the Ministers' views on this proposal? That's what I like to hear from them. And can the Minister also clarify to what extent this is something that the cooperation agreement between the IMG and NCG seeks to achieve and to what extent this is actually the case? Has the covenant worked according to the Minister and has it so far brought what it was intended to do? To what extent is there now a single party that can actually make decisions, rather than having to consult between authorities over and over again, but apparently there is no one who can make a decision at the end of the day? I would like to draw particular attention to the houses with repeated damage, including reinforcement and strengthening. Often more could be solved by doing more about the construction of the house. In practice, however, there is not enough room to do so more broadly and not just to look at what is needed for safety. Is there any indication of how many of these have been reported? Can the Minister make an inventory of the cases of repeated damage? How can this damage be prevented, for example by sustainably strengthening the home? And how many of these needs to be strengthened? Does it make sense to carry out a sample, if necessary, so that we can rule out and make sure that there are also unsafe properties outside the existing working stock? In fact, that is a bit in line with what Mrs De Vries has put forward on this issue. How come it comes back every time? Maybe it's not just a few cases, but secretly it's a lot more? I come to sustainable recovery. The draft law as it stands is a sharp separation between the tasks of the National Coordinator Groningen and the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen. As a result, the IMG is only competent if the mining damage can be traced back to the civil liability of the NAM. The IMG then compensates for mining damage on the basis of repair of the damage in the old condition. This means, in practice, that there is a real chance that the resident who has repaired his damage will face new damage in the event of a subsequent quake. It would be better for the IMG to be able to take measures that allow for a more sustainable recovery. I have an amendment for this. Mr. Chairman. Recently I saw a remarkable video with the alderman of Groningen about how the municipality wants to handle the reinforcement operation in Woltersum. The alderman literally said: in Woltersum we see that many houses have received reinforcements that do not match the actual condition of the houses. We have now agreed that we also look at the foundations and that we consider the total condition of the houses in the reinforcement. Does the Minister consider it desirable that such decisions depend on how the municipality intends to take up this reinforcement or to set up a working group for this purpose, such as in Woltersum? Or should an approach like this apply to the whole area? Mr. Chairman. Due to the separation of the processes, residents fall too often, unintentionally, between shore and ship. We had a round table meeting with residents from Groningen on Wednesday 11 November. One of the people who wanted to tell us something was Mrs. Evelien. She had a backup call on her roof. But because the roof was so reinforced, there was all kinds of damage. She then ends up in proceedings with the IMG. Is that really how it's done? This has to be done differently, let us get rid of this very quickly, for example, in the event that the NCG does not take into account weakened foundations when making a reinforcement recommendation because it is subject to damage. Whether that same weakened foundation is not caused by mining, and therefore cannot be solved by the IMG, but should actually be solved in order to repair the mining damage above ground meaningfully. Through sustainable recovery and strengthening by enabling the IMG, more space is made to resolve these situations, which instantly limit future damage and possibly even prevent it. That would benefit everyone. How is it that the Mining Act, which makes mining damage widespread, is at once limited to damage above ground level? Can the Minister explain that to me? Isn't that what the Mining Act originally meant? I therefore propose, in the amendment I have just mentioned, that there should be opportunities for more sustainable recovery. Such a sustainable recovery may have financial consequences. As far as the CDA is concerned, this should simply be charged to the NAM. And if that is not possible, can the reservoirs be dealt with, for example? How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. The Groninger Gasberaad also has a proposal to make more sustainable recovery possible. They have proposed a very comprehensive amendment to that effect, which amends a large number of articles in the legislative proposal. The Chairman of the board of the IMG has proposed that the implementation consequences of the Gasberaad's proposal be assessed together with the NCG. Will the Minister comment on this proposal? The IMG and the NCG ask for a short-term mapping of the implementation consequences of this. As far as I am concerned, this is not just an implementation test in this area, but it should be a broader implementation test for the longer term. How are you gonna work together better when organizations are involved? There is also the aspect of attitude, behaviour and culture, which Mrs De Vries also mentioned. You might want to end up doing that because they're in each other's boards and there are changes. Perhaps there are more of these practical examples. Eventually, you want it to turn out like this, so it's gonna benefit that local. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the extraction of gas from the Groningenfield goes through this government to zero, and that is a good thing. We're not there yet, but fortunately it's going that way. The cessation of extraction should lead to a situation in which the risk of more severe tremors will be reduced. In the longer term, hopefully, we will be able to grow to a situation where the NCG will no longer be needed, or perhaps only sporadically, and there will be one organisation left. This law seems to rule that out in advance, and we, as CDA, do not think that is wise. That is why I have prepared an amendment to amend it. How do the Ministers see this in Article 1 (b) (2) (9)? Did they mean that as it is understood by us, the Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement? If they don't, I'd like to hear it and then I'd like to hear how they see it and how they would like to solve it. Mr. Chairman. Then the recording on request. I hear from the region that the so-called inclusion on request is still slow and very difficult. It also seems to have come to light that many people were already in the work stock, without them knowing it. Mr Beckerman has already indicated that. I'm getting signals that it may take months for someone to come and see if a resident does indeed have sufficient reason to make a request for a recording. I also hear that it is only after months that an inspection is to be carried out, and not until months later that a report is to be made. It also seems that in the case of residents who show that there is a need to strengthen, the municipality should be informed that they should include that address in the plan to be adopted annually. Subsequently, the NCG must include it in an implementation plan. Mr President, you have already guessed: this is of course a very long way to go. So long as residents don't really know when they're next. Is the Minister getting these signals too? What can be done to make the recording more accessible and faster on request? Another point to be taken into account here is the fact that, so far, the margin of error of the models currently used for the reinforcement operation has not been assessed in practice to determine which addresses should be included. Is the Minister at all in the process of investigating that? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. There is still a great deal of uncertainty in the region about the elaboration of the agreements contained in the administrative agreement. The administrative agreement also regulates a number of things, in which municipalities play an important role. Can the Minister indicate where and when it is going to work? Who is the contact point for residents for appointments from the board agreement? Is that the NCG? Can we then establish that today, so that it is clear to everyone? For many residents it is not yet clear what task lies with them in relation to the reinforcement. Not everyone has the backup advice yet. That raises questions for them. The lists used by the NCG on who falls into which category of the governance agreement are "not yet stable" and "not yet completely clear," as we hear from our own people from the region. The problem would be in data management. That would go with Excel tables now. We even hear that the NCG would say: if the lists are wrong and things go wrong, then we have a very strong communication team that knows how to deal with them. Can the Minister indicate how the NCG's data management is handled? Does the Minister see improvement points for data management at the NCG? Can that be mapped? How should this be done, if it is to be registered for which systems, the old ones or the new ones, the residents choose for the reinforcement? In addition, it is not yet clear for residents when they can make the choice between old and new systems. The letter sent to the residents of category A states that they can pass it on to the NCG. But if the people who already have a reinforcement advice at the NCG indicate that they want to continue according to the old system, they will be told that they cannot now pass that on to the NCG. That leads to cynicism. Can the Minister respond to this? Can the Minister also indicate how she looks at the suggestion that residents who are being strengthened should be given the right to an independent expert's advice? That could be included in the customer journey. "Customer travel" is actually a terrible word. That sounds like a very positive thing, which is definitely not felt that way here. I hope it's true for most people that it's positive when they're on a trip and that it may be a nice trip. In this way, a kind of standard could be created for what should be minimal in a reinforcement opinion, which can be examined. That can be developed. For example, fewer sections of the NCG could also be blocked, as negotiations with an independent expert could go faster as a kind of mediator. This option could also create a basis of trust, which would ultimately require the independent expert only temporarily. How does the Minister view this? Now, the use of an independent expert is mentioned in the administrative agreement, in the choice that residents can make between strengthening or not strengthening, but could this also be done when developing a reinforcement advice, in a similar way as in case of damage a counter expert can be employed? Mr. Chairman. Many of the issues are not dealt with in the law itself but in a different way. This will give us greater flexibility, but as a Chamber we are losing our grip, and that will result in a process that is not going very well. It makes me feel less senang. These include rules on the scope of the law, the identification of risk profiles for buildings, the assessment methods used to assess buildings and the identification of the reinforcement measures needed, the local programmes of approach and the advice given to them by the State Monitoring of Mines, the right of an owner to reimbursement of the costs of reinforcement and the maximum amount of burden compensation for those injured. Can the Minister indicate which part of the AMVBs will return to the Chamber and how this will happen? What room is there for the Chamber to possibly want to steer things differently? Mr President, the agro-programme. I hear that the agro-programme is almost ready and that the first indications for the financial resources available for that purpose seem to be sufficient for the time being. That's good to hear, but there are still concerns about the implementation of the agro-team. That has yet to be done, and that is necessary for faster progress. Can the Minister state how far this is going? Mr. Chairman. I'm through all my questions right now. There were a lot of them. I hope that the two ministers will give a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u42	Maybe Mrs. Agnes Mulder was there too. At least I am very clear about the moment that after Huizinge in January 2013 we were in Loppersum and in the province house in Groningen and that was finally recognized: it is completely wrong. That was eight years ago. We are having a debate here in which we must ask the cabinet to speed up. Look, we're both in a luxurious position, but it makes even me despondent that we should be discussing making pace here. I have for a long time doubted: do I have to or do I not... I have no desire to have a political mess here, but I would like to ask one question anyway. Because Mrs Mulder quite rightly points out that the Chamber is being sidelined much more with this law. But as a chamber, we also have influence. If Mrs Mulder, I think she agrees with me on this, then we need to move forward with the good for those who are hurt and not with the bad. One of the things that is really bad right now and that really affects me, and which I know also affects Mrs Mulder, is that people who were previously undervalued by the NAM are not getting compensation. The Cabinet is going to investigate that. But that makes people sick: every time an investigation, another new arrangement, wait, wait, wait. Well, at least today we're gonna make sure that this fall in value is fair. Because people can't have that injustice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u43	That's under investigation right now. I expect there will be an amount on the table that we can then give a blow to the formation. That's my expectation. Then it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u44	But that is double standards, because this is something that we both, all of us here, know needs to be dealt with, that it is a huge injustice, that people are in debt, that people have tens of thousands of euros too little. So that's not what we're gonna do today. But when there comes a call from the residents' organizations who say "just put the law in place; first go back into conversation," we say "no, we're going to take care of that right away," while we know that it causes people to get back in between the wheels. We know this isn't good enough. Then why do we have these two sizes? Then why don't we settle the good with each other here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u45	This law is, of course, about the reinforcement. It's not about the fall in value. It really is. I also think that we should deal with that law. We've already agreed on what Mrs Beckerman just described. I also expect a good response from the cabinet and that this can be settled at the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u47	At least that's our commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you. It is actually very crazy to have the debate on Groningen without a public gallery. It's funny, isn't it? I can only remember that there were buses coming here to see the debate at close range. But I hope they're all watching and they're following it. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. I was just listening to all the questions that the CDA fired at the cabinet and I thought as a fairly new spokesperson on this file: Jeez, how are you supposed to feel as a resident of Groningen when you hear about all those institutions and all those government battles that are called? For the spokesmen, all this is already quite normal, but I think, as a new spokesperson, 'wow' as well. The inhabitants of Groningen have to deal with it themselves. So I want to start with a quote I read in the research of Groningen Perspective. A number of Members of Parliament have started to do so. The quote is as follows: "In January 2019 I received a letter signed by the NCG and the alderman about my home, namely that it has an increased risk and that they want to take action for it. In August 2019, eight months later, eight people come on the floor for two days. It is now October 2020 and there has been no communication on the follow-up after August 2019.' The report concludes that 8.6% of people with long-term damage have psychological and physical complaints. That's deeply sad. But it also says, and that is encouraging, that people in villages and neighbourhoods are better off where social cohesion is better and where people feel heard. I'll come back to that later. Because we have a bill in front of us today. I have just said in an interruption that I honestly do not know whether the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will support it or not. It's really a dilemma for us. I would also like to make our support dependent on the debate, on the answer given by the cabinet, but also on the questions I have just asked colleagues. The title of the law states "fortified buildings." Someone on Twitter said to me: but it's about people and companies. I thought that was an illustration. Of course, it's about solving a problem. The conclusions of the Gronings Perspective report state that what you always see is that citizens are not sufficiently represented in policy making. The first question to the ministers is: is that progressing with this law? Are the citizens sufficiently visible? Are they central? 'Cause what do you want if someone has a problem with their house? There is then a problem; there are, for example, cracks in the wall. There's a counter where you can go as a resident. And then a solution is arranged. Is this law gonna offer that trial? Because we're already working on that process, based on policy rules, but now there's a legal guarantee. That's administrative jargon you're thinking about as a resident: well, whatever. He or she doesn't care whether it takes place through a policy rule or through a law. I want to know seriously: what difference does it make for people whether something is in a law or in a policy rule? What will the Groningers notice of this law? And the next question was also asked by Mrs Mulder of the CDA. What's going to go wrong if this law isn't passed? What is the difference with the current approach? And does the repair process stop without this law? Many amendments have been tabled, by the SP, but also by the former coalition parties. I have three of my own. I don't know if that means it's a messy law, or if there's any discontent with the bill before us. Or is it just constructive thinking about the Chamber? Of course you can. However, I am very curious about the impact of these amendments and the reaction of the ministers. I would also like to raise the issue of administrative pressure. Because we're dealing with NCG, IMG, Empire, region, provinces, municipalities. And everyone has their own role. My question to the cabinet is: is it because there is mistrust between these different levels of government, or is it based on trust? And is it necessary to run it over so many different drives? Mrs Mulder also said: a penny costs a tenner in the event of mistrust. So sometimes you also have to take for granted that an arrangement is being abused in order to prevent all kinds of control mechanisms. I would also like to hear a response from the ministers. I read the letter from the region. It states that one is in favour of the bill. There are all very administrative arguments, which I understand, but they do have concerns about implementation. And isn't this performance what it's about? Shouldn't that be in order before GroenLinks can be sure that this law will improve that? How does the Minister view that? What do you mean, all that still needs to be figured out? Mrs Mulder is asking for an execution test. Should we first pass a bill and then hope that the execution test will work out well? Or should we wait for the execution test before we know if this bill is going to work? Then the small towns. I've been alderman in a small town myself, and I know how vulnerable an official organization is. If one official with a particular task is ill, that task is stopped. How's that going in Groningen? Isn't that vulnerable? Because, as I said just now, the Gronings Perspective report also states that people want to feel heard at village level or neighbourhood level. The municipality plays an important role in this. Can the small communities handle this? And what would they need extra? I'm considering a motion for this. I would like to say a few words about implementation and employment. Are there enough hands available in Groningen to carry out all these projects? Is there an opportunity for young people and how are we going to promote this? What does the region do to achieve this, and does it need the help of the Empire? Are employers organizing training places compensated for the training of young people? Because a lot of construction companies are incredibly busy, so busy that they actually don't have time to take care of that training, while of course it can also be an opportunity for the region. Mr. Chairman. I have three amendments, which I am now going to discuss one by one. We are tabling the first amendment because we believe that the strengthening exercise should be generous and generous, because the victims of the mining problem have not asked for these problems. Regardless of which reinforcement solution is chosen, compensation should be provided. It should not end up on the owner's plate, even if measures other than reinforcement measures are introduced at the owner's request to ensure that buildings comply with safety standards. This amendment provides that the owner does not pay for these costs. A second amendment that we want to submit is that no explicit consent is given for the exchange of personal data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards the NAM. Because for a proper execution of the reinforcement, the provision of this privacy sensitive data to the NAM is not necessary at all. For example, it is confirmed that the NAM does not interfere with the reinforcement notice. Finally, the third amendment, which regulates that a strengthening decision is not irrevocable. A decision not to strengthen a building cannot possibly be irrevocable. It must be borne in mind that changes in the safety of buildings are taking place over time. It is purely a snapshot, aimed at one-off intervention, rather than a path of monitoring with the aim of preventing damage and insecurity in the longer term. In addition, the word "unrecallable" in the law implies that the right to reimbursement of the costs of the reinforcement measures will forever lapse. Mr. Chairman. As I have said, I will be listening to the rest of the debate with great interest, including the Ministers' replies. Then we're gonna make up our mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Oh, you have a question. I thought you were going to walk to the chair. Well, tell me, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u51	I understand the struggle of GroenLinks very well. But I also see something else, and that's the struggle of D66. This law also brings what is necessary. For example, the NAM is removed, we can arrange charges via the NAM, residents get better legal protection and can be paid to the victims. It is all matters that are essential for the adoption of this law. I am curious: are you still prepared to come to a better law in this Chamber debate with us, on the basis of a number of amendments that have already been reviewed? Is that something GroenLinks can pull over the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u52	I think that is the purpose of this debate. I know that you often enter into a debate with a biased attitude and ideas about what comes of it. But of course the debate is also meant to make something better, to get to know the arguments that you have not come up with, but which are very important. So, of course, I think it is very good that there are so many amendments that we are all going to look at seriously. I'm going to listen to the ministers' answers. It really is a dilemma, because we see that things are improving. For some parties here, the opinion is that it is not good enough and that it stands in the way of a better solution. I would very much like to hear that from the ministers. Is the adoption of this law going to be an obstacle to a much better law, or is it a first step in the right direction? Is the glass half full or half empty? That's very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u53	Finalizing: when is that glass for GroenLinks half full?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u54	If we like the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u55	You should have known that, Mr. Sienot. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sienot. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. Today, D66 plans to take a new step forward with the Temporary Law Groningen to help the Groningen people find safe homes. This is done with a transparent strengthening process in which the NAM no longer plays a legal role in strengthening. That was a popular wish in the region. D66 also knows very well that we are not helping Groningers with this law from one day to the next to safe houses, although I would very much like to do so. Ever since I stayed in the holidays with my grandfather and grandmother at the Derk Boeremastraat in Appingedam, Groningen has a special place in my life. Most of my family lives there. I have many beautiful memories of the city and the Ommeland. And I love vegetarian eggballs, a snack that made it national intangible heritage. I can highly recommend him, also to Mr. Nijboer, although I hope I don't get a health prevention team on my roof right now. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, I have been a spokesperson for many Groningers in the earthquake area. That was indeed a great opportunity to eat eggballs again, but that doesn't help the Groningers of course. As a spokesperson, I wanted to mean something to them, too. At every visit again I saw how slow reinforcements chop into it. I know that this is actually true of all the spokesmen here in the Chamber, and we have heard it again today, as well as of the two ministers sitting there. I suspect that will also apply to the new minister. That's why D66 wants to deal with this law to make him better, because delay doesn't solve anything and Groningers doesn't get along with a law that doesn't work. I would therefore like to address the question of how we can improve the law so that we can meet the wishes we receive from the region. I have also heard many good points from the spokesmen. Put the residents at the center, that's what we hear in the region all the time. Pay more attention to a solid recovery, including foundation. Mrs. Agnes Mulder mentioned that too. Secure proper legal protection. Make sure that reinforcement, recovery and sustainability measures are better combined. They're echoes from the region that we hear in every conversation. Mr. Chairman. To begin with, we have often asked whether we can combine measures to strengthen, restore and make it more sustainable when it has to be done on the same house. Can the Minister explain exactly what is needed and possible for an integrated approach to strengthening, restoring and sustainability? Does it share the view that this should take place as far as possible, wherever possible, in its entirety? I ask for this because the Minister writes in her letter to the Chamber: "A combined approach can be taken where necessary and desired by the owner, at those addresses in Groningen where there is both damage handling and the strengthening of a home." Sustainability is not mentioned here. My group wants sustainability to be taken into account not only in the necessary cases, but in all cases when the owner so wishes. This way we strengthen and sustain the houses at once. Of course, this should not lead to delays. I totally agree with Mrs Mulder. I do not think that is necessary in many cases, but you have to be honest about the impact on the reinforcement and above all about what it can bring. Can we make this possible? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Apart from sustainability, of course, there is also the discussion about one organisation for strengthening and restoring, rather than two organisations, as is the case now. To be honest, I'm struggling with this. On the one hand, I can well imagine that, from the point of view of the resident, it is the easiest way to deal with one organisation rather than two, each with their own trajectory. On the other hand, I do not want a lot of time to sit down in merging two organisations, which means that Groningers will have to wait longer for a safe home. But one thing I know for sure: the Groninger must be central; you should not send it from the cabinet to the wall. They just want the problem at their house to be solved. In any case, therefore, we want to ensure that at the beginning of the journey there is a single house and a single case-manager when there is both reinforcement and recovery and there is an obligation to share information. That is why I very much support the amendment tabled by Mrs De Vries on this subject on behalf of the VVD. I would like a response from the Minister to this amendment. Mr. Chairman. D66 also wants, of course, to end the so-called cosmetic recovery. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u57	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u58	Not with this block. I can finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u59	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u60	D66 also wants the cosmetic recovery to end. We want a sustainable restoration of houses, so that damage does not return immediately if there is a tremor or soil movement. That is why I warmly endorsed the CDA amendment on this subject. I would like a response from the Minister to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yes. Mr Nijboer and then Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Sienot of D66 points out that we should not be completely reorganising, because then we are working again. But that was actually caused by the cabinet itself, wasn't it? Mr Sienot agrees with me, doesn't he? It's been a year and a half since this law came into effect. We told Minister Wiebes years ago that damage and recovery must go together. He said: yes, I agree with you very much, but it is so complicated. Then we're two or three years away, and then there's a law that still treats it completely separately. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u63	I agree with Mr Nijboer that residents want to have one contact point. That is why we are doing our best to improve the law on this issue. What I also see is that at the back, on the organizational side, there is constantly a lot of time in reorganizing and fine-tuning again. You can find anything you want. First it was the CVW and the NAM, then it became the Institute for Mining Damage and the NCG. We're just busy and people don't notice. At least I'm ready to think: we shouldn't have that whole story again. I can track people who say it's gonna be a lot on the back. That is why I say that I do not want to. But what I do want and what comes first for us is to help residents in one place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u64	I don't think people are so helped with a single point of contact. I found the answer to Question 55 of the Chamber very clear. It says: the processes are very different. The processes of strengthening are therefore very different and the processes of compensation are also very different. But these people's house is the same. It's the same wall, it's the same house, it's the same contractors that need to get there, only it all has to be at different times. They also have to visit different institutions. Then they may have one point of contact, but then the house still goes to hell two or three times. That's the problem. I really think that's way too much being ignored. People have to trample their homes every time, because they get different inspectors on the floor. You can have one point of contact, but there will be several inspectors, because one needs to look at reinforcements and the other at damage. That's hopeless, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u65	I agree with Mr Nijboer that you must ensure that it is organised as well as possible where it coincides and that people do not, indeed, get different people on the floor. That's what I said. Whatever I agree with is that you need to organize it properly. I also see that this is not the case at all, but Mr Nijboer did not mention it. I understand that the coincidence is a bit of a terrible word, but it is well known that both damage recovery and reinforcement are at issue in 15% of the cases. In any case, this is far from being the case in all cases. So you're turning the whole thing upside down for something that's far from everywhere. Then I'd rather we figure out how to put the NCG in position so we can let those cases go together. 'Cause I totally agree with you that that has to happen. But we don't have to tear everything up again at the back of our organization, because then we are also putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u66	I would like to ask D66 where the difference lies between Mrs Beckerman's proposal and Mr Sienot's proposal or the amendment he intends to support. He talks about the back and the total reorganisation of the organizations. What's the difference when everyone here says you have to have one point of contact or it needs to be assessed in conjunction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u67	It is funny that you ask me and not the VVD, because it is their amendment. But I'm happy to answer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes, but Mr. Sienot just brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u69	No, Mrs De Vries has already mentioned this. I think she has explained it very well. Again, it's about making sure that the NCG gets space and impact where it's needed. He must also have one case and one point of contact for the resident. That's the point. In addition, there must be good agreements on how this will be dealt with in the future of the organisation. There must therefore be a proper exchange of information and a good way of working together to tackle such a house. This is different from merging the organisations into one organisation by default, because that is where it will be a lot of work. So in my ideal world, and I challenge the ministers to convince us that they can exist, because I think that's also what they're trying to do. Someone doesn't have two different contractors and stuff. That can't be the case. That's what Mr Nijboer said. It's one place, one contractor; it's the same house. We all agree on that. So how do you ensure that recovery and reinforcement take place at the same house in a way that the resident has one point of contact? You should not have so much to do with it that it is then two different organizations that have their own story about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u70	Let me put it first: one window is a step forward. Now residents are stuck between a lot of organizations, constantly changing abbreviations, constantly new rules and constantly new agencies. But does Mr Sienot understand that a great deal has to be done before the one contractor arrives and that it does not make much sense to have one window where you are going, if there are still two organisations behind the scenes arguing and looking at residents out of distrust? That is the problem now: the government still distrusts the victims. Even your coalition colleague Agnes Mulder mentioned it: sometimes, to save ten cents, 10 euros is spent. That's distrust. That's why it's so slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u71	I do not quite understand what Mrs Beckerman is trying to tell me here, because we do not have much of a difference of opinion about this. I made the point that it is a good idea to at least ensure that there is one contact point. I am not saying that culture should not change. I have just asked Mrs De Vries of the VVD a question about this. I think it's going to have to change a lot. But I don't know if you've achieved that... because that's actually what you're saying: if you put those two organizations together, that's all solved. I don't think so. I think that's something we should be on top of each other here. If we point out that there is far too much money going into all kinds of litigation costs, as unfortunately we have to see more and more often, then we must be on top of that. I would like to compliment you on that; you always do. I'd be happy to support you in that. So that's what we're agreed on. But I don't think that has anything to do with two different organizations making one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u72	I haven't been naive in this for a long time. There's been such a big mess that no one can claim we're gonna solve this as quickly as possible. But the parallel with the premium affair is quite right, precisely because it is only when recognition begins that the battle begins. Mr Nijboer said it nicely: we got a law from the cabinet that would solve it all, but it turns out not to work a little later. It doesn't necessarily help if there's one hatch. It helps if someone says, "We're gonna fix this." Actually, that's the only thing that works for people like Eltje and Alida, who I just mentioned and who have been strutting at their farm for years, but are stuck in all those processes. I really see that one window is a step forward, but there is much more to be done. Because these two processes are still organised on the basis of mistrust. Does Mr Sienot not agree with us? We have to make that change in thinking right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u73	This is actually something I've been taken from my heart. I think that builds on what I just said. You can technically approach this and merge two organizations; then we are solving a process. I don't think that's what we're talking about. What we're talking about is this. There's one point of contact. Mrs Beckerman is right to say that we are not there with that. That's right! There must be one plan for the house and there must be one organisation that takes responsibility for it. And that must then be carried out clearly and clearly for the citizen. That's how I picture it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr. Chairman. Speaking of the one plan... Mrs Beckerman said in her contribution that the decision-making period of that whole plan is what are we going to do? In fact, it should be shortened to four months. I can imagine that question. We are also surprised that the decision-making period is a year, because that means that we are legally laying down that people have to wait longer again, and Groningers have been doing so for so long. Look, of course, we don't want to make a promise we can't deliver, because it doesn't help anyone. I want to be very clear about this, but I look forward to the Minister's response to Mrs Beckerman's amendment. I hope that's really something to do with that. D66 also wonders what the penalty is if the decision-making period is exceeded. Mrs. Beckerman just asked me the same question. Does that mean the owner gets compensation? How much is that? Can we fix that? There must be something of an incentive. Mr. Chairman. I would like to convey the concerns that local administrators in the region have about the role that the IMG will play on the basis of this law. Due to the role of the IMG, local directors get the feeling that they are allowed to decide on specific matters, but are then controlled by an institute. They do not see this as a confirmation of the confidence in the judgment of the democratically elected municipal government. I can imagine, but perhaps the Minister could explain the role of that institution in the reinforcement operation and how it relates to local administrators. What happens if there is a difference of opinion between local drivers and the IMG? So how do we deal with that? I think it would be a good idea to clarify that and to remove those questions. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the following. An important lesson from the aforementioned report Unfamiliar injustice, about the premium affair, is that signals that something is not going well must come up much faster so that it can be adjusted. I think that is something I would like to add to my reply to Mrs Beckerman. I think this is one of the cores. If you make a plan together and have that one point of contact, we're not there yet. I agree with her. We must also do this: open to signals and be able to send them in time. Now it is too often the case that it is too late when that information finally comes to the Chamber. Unfortunately, this also applies to the earthquake problems in Groningen. D66 considers that attention to the implementation and quality of legislation is crucial in order to avoid subsequent tragedies. That is why we want this law to be evaluated not every three years, as stated in the bill, but every two years, together with an annual survey. In this way, we ensure that we identify problems in good time and can discuss them in the Chamber and that we, as legislators, can adjust them where necessary. I think that makes a lot of sense. We have tabled an amendment on this and we are preparing a motion. We are very interested in the Minister's reaction to this position. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet took the courageous and necessary decision to turn off the gas tap. In addition, the waiting period for repair work was reduced. And today we arranged a legal public approach to the reinforcement operation, in which the role of the NAM was really played out. These are steps in the right direction, but we do not have to wait for the lessons of the parliamentary survey to know that the pace of reinforcement really needs to be raised. A look at the dashboard says everything: 1,769 houses are now in total reinforced, of which 587 in 2020. Far too little. And as a spokesperson in recent years, I sometimes felt that no one was ultimately responsible for this. Yes, there are a lot of organisations working on it: two ministries, two implementation organisations, five municipalities, one province. And everyone works hard, with the best of intentions. But where can the resident go if things go wrong? And who's gonna get us a much faster backup? Before you know it, everyone points at each other. And there lies for us as D66 the big assignment for a new cabinet: point the way forward, towards safe houses for all Groningers; make this a common top priority in a new cabinet. Because on paper there really is a lot in the scaffolding after the agreements with the region. But we have no use for paper scaffolding, we want to see these scaffolding in practice that these houses are being improved and restored. And in the meantime, we need to keep looking at what can be done better. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Then we go first to clean the chair, and then Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Crises: economic crisis, corona crisis, housing crisis............................................................................................................................................................ The heavy quake at Huizinge is now over eight years ago. And the doomed must wait and wait. They're being sent from the locker to the wall for years. A bureaucratic wall erected by a poaching and involuntary government. Because yes, what did the Minister of EZK say in 2017, just after he took office? He called the crisis in Groningen "state failure of non-Dutch proportions." That's a big deal. But what on earth has been done over the past few years to put an end to this crisis and turn that government failure into a generous solution, in other words simply giving the victims what they are entitled to? All promises. Because 2019 would be the year of implementation, the minister said. Didn't happen. "The contractors' vans were going to drive," it was literally said. None of it happened either. And 2020, what happened there? Yeah, the tremors just kept going. More than 30 times the soil trembled in Groningen in 2020. The question is, of course, crucial: the crisis approach, where is it? The bill we are discussing here today, is it a crisis approach? No, it's not. And recently, the State surveillance of the Mines advocated yet another time for this crisis approach: it must be faster; not just talk, but above all do. In response to the SodM, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: "Yes, I also consider the problems in Groningen to be a crisis. It also needs to be faster, I agree with the SodM" - end quote. But what the hell do we notice? Again, where is this crisis approach? The Chamber has also asked so many times for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u78	It sounds very forceful to call for a crisis approach. And I have just been paying attention to Mrs Beckerman's speech, because she did fill it in. The content I hear from the PVV is: it has to be faster and we have to go one more time. But how are we gonna do it? What is the alternative the PVV proposes to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u79	Well, when I said "it has to be faster; don't talk much, but mostly do it," I was reading a quote from the SodM. You can call it the crisis approach or not. I don't really care what you call it, as long as it gets solved. We, the PVV, have proposed so many times in recent years to put a line under the damage cases and to make it a sort of general pardon for the Groningers. I do not know if GroenLinks voted in favour of it then, but we all proposed that. Pay out: just do it. Don't go squeezing on a few pennies or a few euros. Don't wait endlessly for reports or conduct endless procedures. All that costs money, too. Pay it out and go fix it. That is the criticism of the cabinet. The cabinet said four years ago that there was huge government failure. Minister Wiebes said we're all gonna take care of it. At that time, as a Chamber, we were moderately positive about this: now we are finally going to be okay. We've been four years. In the meantime, the cabinet is a missionary. Only now we are dealing with this law, whatever its content. It's all taking way too long. The cabinet has had four years to settle it. Four years is pretty long, but it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u80	I am not here to applaud the way things went in Groningen, because I really think it is a tragedy, like a lot of MPs, I think. But the question is, of course, how do we proceed? Are we gonna do that with this law, or are we gonna do it another way? So how do we do that? I can't get an answer to that. "Sneller" and "do" are two words that appeal to everyone, but it's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u81	I think I just made that very clear: a general pardon for the Groningers. It may sound a bit crazy from the mouth of a PVV man, but in the case of Groningen we make an exception. Stop all these endless procedures. Stop rigging complicated legal issues. That's what the law we're discussing today is part of. That doesn't make it any easier. It makes things even harder. Already almost no one in Groningen knows where he or she is. No one understands anymore. All these agencies... wait, wait, for years. Then we say: stop it at last; put a line under it! Pay those people out, even if it's one euro more, or $1,000 more, or I know how much. But do it! People have been waiting so long. It's unacceptable. And as far as I'm concerned, I'll be back in a minute to talk about it. So I was talking about this crisis approach. I can see, by the way, that Mrs Bromet seems to think it's very funny. According to the SodM, that whole reinforcement operation we're talking about is going to take another 20 years at the current rate. Twenty years! That's really weird. That is, of course, anything but an acceptable prospect. Then you really fall into the shoes of all the courage and hope, as far as it is left. So this bill is about the reinforcement operation. We read that and we hear the Minister, with lots of anointing words. But the question is, of course, when are the victims going to notice anything about this? When do they hear what? When do they get what? When will it all be arranged? It may be an impossible question, years after date and so many years after Huizinge, but when is it settled? That's the key question. Can the Minister, after four years of Rutte III, give a concrete answer to this after years of muddling? Give the Groningen perspective, rather than the powerlessness that now prevails everywhere in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. The SodM believes that the reinforcement operation should be completed by 2025. That is a concrete year. Is that gonna work, yes or no? Mr. Chairman. The Groninger Soil Movement, the Groninger Gas Council, Association Eigen Huis: virtually everyone thinks that the perspective of the Groningers should be much more prominent in all regulations. Then we, and the cabinet, can get bogged down in all kinds of technical, legal matters in any debate, which is also part of all that poaching, slowness, but I think that every duped wants to know where his money is, when his damage is repaired and when his house is strengthened. The Temporary Law Groningen has no expiry date. So please respond to this point. Why are the victims endlessly burdened with complicated procedures that are constantly changing, while the implementing agencies do not even meet their own deadlines? Whether it is about the reservoir system whose decision-making period has been extended by a maximum of fifteen months or whatever, the victims stand against the wall every time and can do nothing but wait and see. Why is there not a deadline for implementing agencies? Why not take a positive decision automatically if that deadline is not met? It's possible. See General Administrative Law Act. That is what they call a positive fictitious decision if they do not decide in good time. So it's possible. I'd like a response. For the years that have gone by of authorities, regulations, reports and procedures have still prevail. At the beginning of last year, a package of so-called acceleration measures was presented. The question is then what the hell has become of that, because it is anything but fast. Then a sort of construction agreement has been concluded recently. So what's been the outcome of that so far? 'Cause the dodgers are still in a broken house. How does all this relate to this bill? So how is it going to make things simpler and not more complicated? How then is it not possible to work side by side with all these different regulations and also with this new law, and in practice nothing happens to nothing? For many years now, the problem has been in its effect and in its implementation. An administrative agreement was recently concluded. This was accompanied by all kinds of roaring lyrics such as "to accommodate residents," "to give choices," "to provide perspective" and "to give direction." That is precisely what has not happened in recent years. The term "administrative agreement" alone, an agreement between administrations. The question then is: where is the agreement with the residents? What the hell did they have to say or say at the moment? Because just as the Groninger Gas Council and other representative organisations call that administrative agreement unbelievable, they also have little confidence in the law that is now before them. And that's a big deal. They have even drawn up a whole charter about it, which says that human measure must be put back at the heart of the matter and that confidence must be restored, and that says: be open and honest. So we are dealing with civil society organisations that do not like the law in advance. How does the Minister respond to that? Because after many years of beautiful but above all meaningless words, after years of broken promises, my question is how does the Minister think that this bill, among other things, will ever restore that confidence. Damage treatment and reinforcement, it has been over many times, including in other debates. Of course, you shouldn't see them apart. You can't see them apart either. Those two belong together, especially from the resident's perspective. It's about his house, about the house. Yet damage and strengthening are not merged. Why not? Then I quote the Minister in the explanatory statement: 'Most buildings with damage do not need reinforcements and buildings that need strengthening do not always have damage'. That's not an argument not to combine damage and reinforcement, is it? That doesn't make any sense, does it? What is the difference between damage and strengthening at all? Can the Minister explain that? Is repairing damage always a cosmetic thing? Is that the conclusion? Or could damage recovery also be reinforcements? Or reversed: can reinforcement not also automatically mean damage recovery? Yes, please, Minister. In other words, why is it being made so complicated again? This bill provides a basis, we read, with which the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen and the National Coordinator Groningen can exchange data among themselves, in order to coordinate the settlement of damages and the reinforcement. In September 2019 they concluded a cooperation agreement. Are these two organisations going to decide between themselves what harm is and what strengthening is? How does that work in practice? Two bureaucratic organisations, which have proved to be side by side and are going to exchange information; it is all very vague. And then all of a sudden it's gonna have to be okay? I'd like a response from the Minister. They are two organisations that both have their own employees, their own experts, construction experts, and their own ICT systems. Of course, that too costs money. And let us be honest: not the advisors, the experts and the engineers should be better off, but the money should end up where it belongs, namely with the victims. They are two processes, because the Minister is so keen to emphasise the difference between damage and strengthening, although the difference between the two is, of course, many times smaller than what they have in common. That is the solution to the Groningen crisis and to ensure that people can return to normal life and normally live in their homes, whether you want to call it damage handling or reinforcement. Mr. Chairman. It is too complicated, as has also been shown by research carried out by the University of Groningen. The researchers spoke dozens of people between February and September 2020. They spoke to officials in municipalities, in the State surveillance of the Mines, at the National Coordinator. Like the victims, they also complain about the multitude of organisations and the different interests. I quote. "One instance looks purely and exclusively at the physical condition of a home based on calculation models. The other wraps up the damage without checking whether an entire house should be strengthened at a later stage." And that's exactly where it goes wrong. That's what you get for making it so bureaucratic and complicated. Mutual distrust, lack of direction, conflicting interests, an administrative spaghetti, a mad system. Minister, it is among other things your own officials who say that. These are harsh conclusions, the most important of which is, of course, that the interests of the inhabitants would not be paramount and have been snowed under. If you let that get to you, what about that perspective for the doomed and the human size that we've heard so many times about the minister? The Gronings Perspective report published yesterday even talks about system victims, about victims who have to wait endlessly, fall between shore and ship and go completely to pieces. There is increasing powerlessness. There are those who even leave the province who have actually given up saying, "Oh, I don't like it anymore, those years of struggle, I'm just going away." You can't do that! That fight for years! You can't do that to your own people here in this country! It's government failure of non-Dutch proportions. That's right, that's it. But what is being done about it? And what has this cabinet been doing about it for the past four years? Let it get to you: if there is a disaster anywhere in the world, an earthquake or whatever, the Netherlands is at the front of the wallet. And then the millions are really gonna blow your brains out. Systematic. But the earthquake victims in their own country, in Groningen, have meanwhile become victims of the system. That really is the world upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kops. On my list is Mrs. Dik-Faber, but I understand there's been a trade. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr. Chairman. I was allowed to go first. That's because it's a rather special day for me when I have to be in two places at once in this house where it's about recovery, namely at both the supplement drama and here in Groningen. The fact that in both cases Wiebes' fingerprints are on that does not mean that he is ultimately the culprit. But it's a special day, I might add. This also tempts me to note that the agreement between the two is that there has been not only a great deal of damage and suffering to people, but also that there is a struggle to restore this whole. This leads me to believe that the existing government organisation is unable to tackle the problem properly. Perhaps in the next cabinet period there should be only one minister for recovery. I'll come back to that at the end. Restoration of damage caused by public intervention and restoration of confidence. For in both cases confidence in the government has been greatly damaged by the action. Maybe I can start with this question of principle, because it will be important for my group to see how the rulers, how the cabinet can make it clear that this will really make things better. We see it tearing apart recovery and reinforcement. There's a year between dealing with both legislative proposals. Now, just before the election recess, this bill is still under consideration. I repeat what Mr Kops said: I do not see much difference between damage and reinforcement. Because whatever happens, you can at most say that strengthening confidence is slow, but damage to buildings leads to the need to strengthen the whole. We've seen all those pictures, not only by a plasterer. That means you have to do something fundamental about the situation. I see that there were apparently many legal hiccups, but what is actually the start of the implementation of the agreements under the administrative agreement? What is the result of this at the moment, or is it just more consultation? The question is also what is going on with the implementation capacity. If you put a percentage sum on it, you say that a great leap forward has been made, but that is because only so little was done in the last year that it seemed to be a great leap forward in 2020. That's more similar to a Mao leap forward than it really means anything. There is so much damage, and I would like to say to my fellow Members that if they should be resolved by 2025, you will need a cabinet period. That also brought me to a minister for recovery. If the advisers say that things are going too slowly at this rate, this means that we need to speed up. How is this acceleration actually achieved? How is it ensured that the whole thing does not get bogged down in two existing organisations? One window is always a good start, but it is also about what is happening behind that window and to what extent cooperation is taking place. We are pleased that the satisfaction in the panel has increased, but we are also very curious about the satisfaction outside the panel. I know they've been chosen by lot, so no broken draw has taken place, I can assume. Of course, it's about looking at how the whole population gets the trust. Moreover, this confidence is not enhanced by the limitation to municipalities. That confidence relates to the whole province and the confidence in the government that it is able to solve the problems. The comparison was also made between known injustice and unprecedented injustice. In both cases, it's injustice that you have to solve. I can tell you that in the event of unprecedented injustice, the way in which the government handles the damage in Groningen is seen as an example of how it should not be done, namely very slow and very bureaucratic. Good rigging, but then it's not working out. It's really about the execution, to be able to restore confidence. In this respect, it is necessary to ensure that many more meters are made than has been the case so far. This bill provides a basis for IMG and NCG to exchange the data, in order to align the whole. Once again, this adjustment must not lead to delays. Of course, it is often the result of bureaucracy that coordination leads to delays rather than acceleration. We asked questions about this in the written round of questions. What is the state of progress in ICT? It is said that it is efficiently arranged via a secure digital connection, in accordance with the applicable privacy rules. We may hope so, but the government doesn't have such a great reputation when it comes to privacy. At the same time, privacy is often used to mask the lack of progress if something goes wrong. We don't want to get into that kind of discussion. That also leads to the question: who has the lead when it comes to combination files? Then who's the one who cuts the buttons? Or is it waiting again for each other to decide together? Somewhere there must be someone who says: this is the case, this is the focus on strengthening and here the focus is on damage handling or cosmetic operations. Whatever we missed is this. Of course, we are focusing on the suffering of the Groningen themselves, but the reinforcement also relates to infrastructure in this area. I call the roads, the dikes and so on. We don't see much of that. What can this bill do in that area? Our opinion depends on the answers and the way in which the amendments will be handled successfully or not. Thank you. Then I'll have to go back to another meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u84	Good luck. Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, you never know for sure in these troubled times, but this is probably my last debate in this Chamber. I remember well: when I became a Member of Parliament in September 2012, the earthquake at Huizinge took place shortly before, on 16 August. We all know what happened after that. 2013 was the year in which a record quantity of gas was raised. Afterwards, gas extraction has been phased out. First by judgments of the judge, later by the use of Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mr Wiebes, who decided to turn off the gas tap as quickly as possible. Now the gas tap closes, too, in 2022. Something we never thought possible is going to happen now. Next year, the last gas will be brought out. As successful as the reduction of gas extraction goes, it has gone so badly with damage repair and reinforcement. The need to regulate matters legally and to keep costs as low as possible has led to a complicated system in which many organisations have a little bit of responsibility, but no one has the direction and in which everyone works side by side and communicates side by side. Ultimately, this has wasted a lot of time, money and energy. Ultimately, this has wasted a lot of time, money and energy. And much worse, the human size is gone. People in Groningen have gone down. They are crushed in a failing system and live in damaged, sometimes unsafe houses. Yesterday, the final report of Groningen Perspective came out and that speaks of "system victims." Those are people who are tired of the authorities, stop reporting damage, have serious health problems and move because they have to flee. This is insane. It is therefore a good thing that preparations for the parliamentary survey have now started. I wish the members of the committee much wisdom in the important work they are doing. Many mistakes cannot be undone. I believe that the survey is an important means of learning for the future and, above all, of doing justice to the people of Groningen. The Social Charter Groningen of the Groningen Soil Movement, the Gas Council and the Association Eigen Huis does not start with "restoring trust" for nothing. The government should act on the basis of confidence in its citizens. The government is called to do justice and restore. Today we are talking against this background of years of government failure about the amendment of the Temporary Law Groningen by adding the part to strengthen. As is already the case with the settlement of damages, this bill regulates the strengthening of buildings by public law. Without the involvement of the NAM, people will be given clarity about the level of security of their homes, any damage will be dealt with and the property will also be strengthened if necessary. Residents are in charge of what happens to their homes. If they wish, they can also take the implementation of the reinforcement under their own management. Public law protection is regulated and there will be one complete strengthening decision instead of a separate standard decision and a separate financing decision. This strengthening decision shall be taken in consultation with the owner. The link between damage recovery and strengthening is taken up wherever possible through the cooperation agreement between the National Coordinator Groningen and the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen. And there's gonna be a resident counselor from the NCG, one point of contact to support people. I think these are about the points in this law. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union has many questions and comments on this bill, also against the background of what I outlined at the beginning of my speech. First of all, the scope covered by the new part to be added is strengthening the Temporary Law on Groningen. The scope of reinforcement extends over the five earthquake communities, as opposed to the wide range of the rest of the law that sees damage settlement. Indeed, the area in which safety risks occur may be smaller than the area where damage occurs. However, since security risks cannot be ruled out outside the earthquake communities, the Christian Union wants a plan to be drawn up for this. I'd like a response from the Minister. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have also looked at the opinion of the Council of State and then there is a lot of criticism. I have two quotes: 1. "Decision-making and implementation of the reinforcement will not be added to the tasks of the IMG, the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen, but will be divided between different administrative bodies and an execution organisation. The administrative balancing framework will also be extended to include administrative considerations other than security." 2. "This legislative proposal does not fully achieve the ultimate objective of the public-law system of settlement of damages and reinforcement, which constitutes a complete set-up and provides a level of legal protection equivalent to civil law." My question is really very simple: do the ministers want to respond to this? The minister, the municipalities and the National Coordinator all have a responsibility in the process of strengthening, but are also interdependent. That is why there is also constant discussion about the mandate and commissioning of the National Coordinator. Who is ultimately responsible for the reinforcements? How is this bill preventing residents from reporting to the municipalities, being referred to the National Coordinator, returning to the municipalities, where the ministry is then looked at? This really shouldn't happen again! Is this complex consensus-oriented decision-making process, in which other considerations can play a role, really putting the safety of people in Groningen at one level? Think of the municipalities that want to make strengthening of homes go hand in hand with refurbishing a neighborhood or replacing the sewers. Or think about making the houses more sustainable. My group understands that we have to use the opportunities of coupling, that is to say in administrative language. But we did all this to make people live safe. When it comes to reinforcement, we certainly need to speed things up. Then there is the other point the Council of State criticises. What is the level of legal protection that people are now offered? Why did the cabinet choose different routes of appeal and appeal? Although it is possible to object to both damages and reinforcement decisions, in the event of damages, the possibility of appeal at first instance and appeal to the Administrative Court Division is open to appeal at first instance and to appeal to the Administrative Court Division in the event of reinforcement. Mr President, I think this is a difference which cannot be explained. So I'd like a reaction to this, too. There is also much to do about the cooperation between the National Coordinator Groningen and the Institute Mining Damage Groningen and about the link between repairing and strengthening. The State surveillance of the Mines has advised on several occasions and the Council of State also points out this. My group supports the idea that we should not spend any time and energy now in the blurring of two organisations that are so differently organized. But people really shouldn't suffer from this. Does the Minister know how often homes with damage are included in the reinforcement programme? I really think much more than she suspects, because this point also comes up very often when I speak to people in Groningen. The combined handling of damage and reinforcement should be the starting point. If that is not possible, there must be justification for this. An obligation to cooperate, therefore, unless there is really no other way. It is important that in the event of damage and strengthening, people have one window and one point of contact and are not sent from the cabinet to the wall. It is also important that there is one integrated solution for their home. That is more than the sum of the injury measure and the reinforcement measure. There's really got to be one plan. Is this bill gonna take care of that for people? The IMG and the NCG have concluded a covenant to align both substantive and procedural claims handling and reinforcement. The Council of State notes that the covenant may be helpful, but is not sufficient to adequately safeguard the position of the injured. The legislative proposal lays down a basis for a ministerial arrangement, which may lay down rules on the alignment of tasks of the NCG and the IMG. However, the IMG, the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen, prefers a general measure of governance, so that rules on the exercise of tasks by the IMG are established through a public procedure, with scrutiny by the Council of State and the two Chambers. What is the Minister's response to this? And why wait until a ministerial arrangement or AMvB is worked out? Isn't it better to work directly on this, with input from both organisations, to make this cooperation mandatory in the law? And how will the data exchange be arranged, naturally in compliance with the privacy rules? My group is very concerned about this and I have therefore voted in favour of an amendment on all of this. Furthermore, it is striking that the IMG pleads for more consideration to be given to sustainably repairing damage, more than just repairing the damage in the old state. They want to prevent the damage from happening again in the first light earthquake or that residents refrain from repairing damage. The call for more than cosmetic recovery also comes from regional government. Of course, I hear this a lot when I talk to residents. Damage is repaired, but re-occurring. This is not only frustrating for residents, but also takes time and money, when it is not necessary. The Christian Union therefore strongly supports the call for sustainable recovery. We have tabled an amendment on this. The CDA Group has tabled an amendment and we also sign it. Very often, this Chamber has spoken about speeding up the reinforcements. The pace of inclusion, assessment and strengthening is increased by instruments such as a typology approach, the building impulse, the construction agreement and the practical approach. According to the online dashboard, 1,769 homes were reinforced by 31 December 2020. That's not gonna work. I see there's been a recording at over 18,000 homes. Due to the typology approach, it is no longer necessary for most houses to perform individual calculations. Has the typology approach actually started and how much acceleration can be achieved? Those who already have reinforcement advice will be given the opportunity to carry out a review by typology in accordance with the administrative arrangements. Is that enough to reassure people? Doesn't someone always have to come over and watch and start the conversation? Has this possibility of re-evaluating been launched? I am considering a motion on this point, because I want someone to come and have someone to talk to, because it can remove feelings of unrest. The draft law gives the Minister one year after the date of the assessment for a strengthening decision with the possibility of renewal. Of course, a strengthening decision must be good and thorough, but I do not believe that such deadlines are in line with the crisis approach advocated by the State surveillance of the Mines. Is the Minister prepared to take another look at this? A six-month period must simply be feasible. I am considering an amendment on this point. Hopefully, with this law today, we will take a step to make it better for people, or let me say less bad. 'Cause we're not there yet. The report by the Groningen Perspective, to which I referred at the beginning of my speech, makes that clear. My group wants people to feel heard and to have support if necessary. That is why today I am calling for a legal support team for residents, as is also stated in the Social Charter. Sometimes people don't see the forest because of the legal trees. I am also considering a motion for a resolution. Today I want to lance for human size but also for customization. We all know the complex reinforcement exercise for farms, for SMEs, but also for heritage. There's got to be room for that. Mr President, I will conclude. I come to the government's duty of care. I have said so many times that the government should not create fault lines, but is called upon to recover and to do justice to people. The drafting of this law will show whether the government can succeed. I would like to hear from the cabinet, from these ministers, why they believe that the government will indeed recover with this law and will also do justice to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was thinking a little bit about what you said, namely that normally the public gallery should be full and that it should hear in a democracy that the people involved can follow it closely. In recent months, not only in this area, but also in the case of childcare and other issues, it is quite a lack that is not the case. I think that people, if they were to come back here again for the umpteenth time, would think the people who would take the trouble, because quite a lot of Groningers have already dropped out: what a thick shit it is still. That's the feeling that prevails in Groningen. I do not think that this law, which is undoubtedly made with the best of intentions, offers a solution and a future for Groningen. This means that it must be heavily grown in the PvdA before we can support it. I see that many Members have tabled amendments and have announced motions. I have one of my own. It has not yet been distributed, but it is a crucial point for the PvdA, and is being presented together with Mrs Beckerman. I believe that a wrong approach is being taken on three fundamental points. The first is that damage and recovery are seen separately. This is not a new theme; Minister Wiebes recognised it years ago. If you have damage to a building and it needs to be reinforced, then you do not all want to have different inspections, different inspectors and different timelines. You don't want any of that. Anyway, it's still completely separate. One contact doesn't solve that. I'll get back to you on that. The second is that it is a huge engineering approach: the priority is based on safety standards, the Meijdam standard, while the future of the area should be left to lead. The third is that it's all taking way too long. We all do. That's what the whole room thinks. It's taking way too long. Endless time, endless procedures. I will deal with these three points. After that, I have two more questions, but I'll get back to you in a minute. First of all, damage and repair. How is it possible, after we have called for motions years ago to do it together, not to have it done by different institutions and not to have it judged differently, that there is now a law, which is already one and a half, two years away, in which this has not been settled? The impression is given that it is only a small percentage of the damage that needs to be repaired, but that is the lifting of a smokescreen. Of course, many people have small cracks and minor damage. Fortunately, they are already being treated a bit better. But of course that's not the point. The issue of the major problems in Groningen concerns the people with long-term, large damage, and uncertainty about the reinforcement. And it just keeps stalling. We saw the despondency again yesterday in the NOS Journal and we all know it. That's not about a handful of people. That's what this is about. Those people see their building, their farm, or their house. They see their dungeon going down. How many years have we been working on that? I am looking at Mrs Mulder, who has been working on this too. That's what we've been doing for three or four years. You can say that recovery is different or that the foundation is different from the upper ground, that we're going to look at it and we're going to come back to it by letter the next quarter, but that's what this law, which we've been waiting for for so long, shouldn't it have been arranged and clear? I am not concerned with the percentage of people in harm, who have to go to the window for reinforcement. I am concerned about the people who are completely stuck in the misery in Groningen and for whom no solution is offered. Why wasn't that chosen? The second point is the safety perspective. Maybe I should make that clear. If you're an engineer and a technician, maybe you're thinking: we're all doing pretty good, right? After all, we have the norm of 1 in 100,000, you can't die in an earthquake because of a stone on your head, but your house could break down. What's most unsafe is we have to move fast. That makes perfect sense, but it's not. Why doesn't that make sense? Because all these houses, farms and village buildings are in a village and a HRA model is being used, in which no one in Groningen trusts. I haven't either. I've declared that thing bankrupt a long time ago. To my great pleasure, he is now being pushed away more and more. But it is still the basis of the law, which is said to be a greater risk here and not there. It's got to be sooner. That's the title. That's what's gonna push the other projects away. While the view of the PvdA is that villages should plan for their future and that we should start immediately, as soon as they are done and agree with each other. It is, however, thanks to this cabinet that Krewerd, Ten Post and Woltersum, although the latter two also have a bit of courage, still come up with plans and do their best. If you pass this law again, in which there is a very hard safety standard leading to the question of what you start with and what you do later, that is going to cause problems. I am very much in favour of looking at what needs to be done and what needs to be done per village, rather than looking at it: in that street, in that village, it is unsafe according to a standard that no one believes, which is incorrect and which is still under the control of the NAM. It is taken in government hands, but the NAM still manages that window model; apparently there is nothing better. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mrs. Bromet has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u89	I have a question for the PvdA. It seems very logical to do it per village and to look at it in conjunction, but that will also mean that some villages have to wait longer, while there are unsafe situations there. Or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u90	I have the following problem with that. If you're just gonna go through with it, then that's also true for churches, for example. That was my next point, but I can say something about it now. Churches may be more likely to take place according to a safety standard. Those things date back to 1300, which are on a terp or a cast, so that subsurface isn't so good. Perhaps they should be strengthened first, while destroying the identity of such a monument. Is that what you're supposed to want? I think that all these questions lead to the absolute norm: in this building, the chance is that the building will fall down once every 8,000 years, so that should be reinforced rather than a building where the chance is that it will fall down once every 12,000 years. You know what I mean? I want to look at that street a lot more. That people do this together and that people agree on that, I find much more important than the exact standard that rolls out of the theoretical model. In that sense, I agree with you: if 1:600 comes out one time, it should be done faster than 1:11,000 comes out. Well, maybe you should. That's the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u91	I find it interesting, but I'm afraid it can also lead to randomness or incalculability, where you don't know what you're up to at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u92	I am not at all in favour of the approach that I have never been, as our electoral programme also shows that you are making all your decisions only on the basis of safety standards. I think it's a territory call. I think you should have a vision of the future of the villages in Groningen. Where do you want the school? Where do you want the town hall? What streets and what buildings? And what do people want? That's what you have to do, given the earthquake damage. You shouldn't let go of a math model that can't be tied to. The same applies to that typology approach. You'll have built up a little, or you'll have demolished a wall; go stand on it. In practice, therefore, it is also completely stuck. And then think that you can say very precisely: that's first. That is, of course, also the reason why we finally, when gas extraction was stopped and Minister Wiebes stopped that whole reinforcement operation, where this was done at first, supported that motion of censure. We don't do that lightly. That's because it's all tied up and we've been putting things back for years. That's exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u93	I want to understand. So the Labour Party actually says to the Chamber: put the advice of State surveillance on the Mines next to you, because it is based on safety. Don't do that, because it just has to be neighborhood- and village-oriented. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u94	Well, "Don't do that"... Of course, you have to look at safety. I'm not saying you shouldn't look at safety at all. But I do not think that security should be the only guide to how to renew the villages and do the area renewal and the neighbourhood approach. I'm really not in favour of just looking at that standard. I'm not in favour of that. And those are whole rows. Up to and including the entrance of homes. Whole pages... I looked at the whole law again yesterday... in case people refuse your access. In that case, people must be able to take the houses and then they must be able to force reinforcement. Then I think, young young boy, what are you doing? You should have spent that time trying to find decent solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u95	But how should the advice of State supervision be applied to the Mines? I can't really weigh what that means right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u96	This means, in concrete terms, that houses, buildings, farms, businesses and business buildings will have to be strengthened. That you see by street, per inhabitant, by village how they want to decorate their village. And that you start with the villages that are finished with it first, who have made a vision of it. Krewerd is ready, in Ten Post they are busy, Woltersum was ready, but that is stopped again. You should start with that. I would like it, if they agree, to find together a contractor who can do so a little faster. Of course, if there is a collapse, I know the farm near Fraamklap and Mrs Agnes Mulder knows it too. But then just to look at security... we can think with a theoretical model what it's first, but to let that be leading, I don't like it. And that's very much in this law. Theoretically, it's nice, but in practice it's worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u97	Then Mrs Bromet's question remains straight: how do you weigh it? I understand everything Mr Nijboer says, and I also feel very much for him. I do not rule out that these approaches cannot be taken at the same time, but I am trying to consider how Mr Nijboer sees it now and how the dilemma that Mrs Bromet is describing here becomes clear and clear. Otherwise, I'd almost say it's a little easy to talk. But that's not what you mean, and I want to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u98	Very good. How do you weigh that? You look where it's really acutely unsafe. Of course, you always have to do that. If you've inspected a building and it's unsafe, it has to be done. But there must be a certain order in it. I think that the order village-oriented - street-oriented, when people are ready, should be chosen. This should not be imposed simply because of a safety standard, based on a HRA model that is not correct, based on a typology model, which I have yet to see whether it is going to work, and based on a law that is very rigid and that is basically putting security at the centre, but not the viability of people in their village. That didn't get a place at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u99	Finally, Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to ask you a few questions. How does that work with all the city councils that have already succeeded? Then you say, "Tuck it all in the trash"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u101	Well, the city councils aren't that excited about this law. I cannot speak on behalf of all the city councils, just as you and I cannot speak on behalf of the entire Chamber. Each city councilman has his own consideration. But I think they also see that a lot of agencies are working on this. One house will be declared unsafe, the other house will not be declared unsafe, another house will be inspected in ten months' time. I can imagine those city councilmen thinking as long as that goes well. Probably not doing well. That's what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u102	A short question, Mr. Sienot? I can see you're having second thoughts. You can also take the left microphone. You can choose from all microphones except the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u103	That's because I'm too tall, Madam President. Here's what's up. Mr Alders had an approach that corresponds to what you say. That was removed because it was too slow; it didn't work out. We can't pretend that was a fantastic solution. A new solution has now been found. I agree with you that there are many problems. That is why an agreement has been reached with the region: to see how we can pool things together and find some sort of optimum between an area-oriented approach and security. How can anyone do what they have to do? From security, the region and looking at the area. We are putting together the resources for this and we have yet to get a budget. So we're really a few stations away. Looks like you're trying to get the whole train back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u104	I find that very strange. Mr Alders has indeed resigned because he had made promises in villages, with dates for when what is being done. When the gas extraction decision was taken, the Minister pulled the entire rug from underneath. He said, "I'm not going through that. In the end, that was the reason why I supported a motion of censure against Minister Wiebes at the time. If you promise people who have been waiting so long that their house will be strengthened, that something will be done with the village house, with the school and with the care center, and you put everything back on hold, then you will be delayed and then you will be where we are now, in 2021. I do not understand why Mr Sienot thinks that I am in any way responsible for how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u105	Madam President. Mr Van Dijk says here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u107	Excuse me. There are all kinds of things being called here that I'm not saying. What I'm saying is we're a couple of stations away. It has been acknowledged that we will not get there if we look strictly at safety. You make it sound like you're just looking at security. That's not true. There is also a broader view. That's the whole idea. That may not be literally the case in the law, but there is a governance agreement for a reason. What I say to you and to the PvdA is, we're a few stations away. We're trying to figure out how to handle it. An agreement has been reached with the region. That's not there for nothing. Now let's see how we can continue the train together. That's what I'm asking you. What I hear you say is: we're going back to the first station, we're going back to doing an area-oriented approach. But I think that we were a bit cured and we found that the next approach was not good either. I agree with you and that is why an agreement has been reached. Now we're gonna see how we can get back through and I'm so curious about that. How does the PvdA want to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u108	I am not arguing at all that there is an area-based approach and that there is money for the future. It's not like there isn't. But we are discussing the law here and then Mr. Sienot should not say to me: yes, it may be in that law, that safety, but you should not talk about it. That's exactly what's going on here. I also understand where that comes from, because that's the title. The safety, that Meijdam norm, is the title on which you can strengthen. That's why it says all these articles like "you're allowed to enter" and "you can't force people into an unsafe house." I can see where it's coming from. I'm just trying to keep the future, the perspective of the future, the confidence of Groningers, and you can't do that with just an engineering approach. That's the point I want to make. And this law is very much based on that engineering approach. Mr Sienot may jump high or low, but that is what this law is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u109	Finally, Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u110	I think we find each other that we both want to mean something to the future of the Groningen people. I'm just saying I don't want to turn back the clock. There's a law here, but that law isn't the whole story, and that's what I'm trying to tell you. That law regulates a number of things, important things, but it's not the whole story. The whole story is also: what are the arrangements with the region? That's what we've gotten into. Are we there yet? No. Is it perfect yet? No. Do all Groningers have a safe home? No. But I really want to know what we're gonna do to get it back together. And I hear the PvdA say, "We're going back, back in time." Well, that doesn't seem like the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u111	I wish I could turn the clock back. In fact, I think we all want that in the Chamber, because if you see where we are now, eight years after Huizinge, there is no party in the Chamber that says that it has been dealt with properly by the government in recent years. It's still a big mess in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr President, that automatically brings me to the third point: time! Everything lasts forever. The processes are endlessly long. Foundations are now another point at the Institute of Mining Damage: when will they be looked at properly? We have really had that discussion. The debate on the dungeons has been going on for two or three years. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw particular attention to the monuments, because... That's happened before, but yes... Then maybe it's a mill, a church or an old farm. According to these harsh standards, which are set here, they are not safe. But they can also be mutilated and then the balancing comes into view: do you want to do it or not? Two. We have discussed it before, but the Chamber has made a clear statement on it. Sometimes it costs a lot of money to do it anyway if you don't want to mutilate it. It often costs more money than the real estate value it represents. What happens then? As far as I'm concerned, these monuments, the Groningers, can't do anything about those earthquakes and are the identity, the soul, of the province. So they're preserved. So I want to stay far away from... It's not explicitly in the law and so... I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this, but a commitment can also be made. So I want to stay far away from another business balance of 150% of the value, something that it has been in the past, or from the new building value and my sister and my so. You'll never get a demolished farmhouse from 1850 again, no matter how beautiful it is built back sustainably. You'll never get a mill or a church again, but they'll determine the identity. Over the past few years there have been here and there the NAM bought those things first on.... more and more of those... Part of the soul of the provinces has already been taken away and I want that to stop. I'm asking the Cabinet to say the same. I do know that there are no provincial monuments in Groningen. We don't have any. In fact, a lot of villages didn't have a monument list, because people didn't even think about demolishing those things, but it's important that that stays. So I ask the cabinet to make a commitment about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last two points. The first is the NAM. The NAM will have to pay in the end. It has to be reported to the NAM and we know the NAM. The NAM negotiated an agreement on the main lines with a too far-reaching finance minister, placing billions in the pocket through a different distribution of the gas building. The NAM negotiates 90 million as an advance and the NAM wants to pay as little as possible. He thinks: well, the government takes over responsibility and I want to pay as little as possible. The Minister may tell that story on the NAM and I am in favour of it, otherwise people will have to do it. But I do want this cabinet to be in a tough position towards the NAM. We know them now, we know what they're doing. They want the best out of the can and pay as little as possible. So I call on the Cabinet: just put down the total bill of that reinforcement, of the damage and of all the costs of the proceedings that come with it, and tell them there as well. If they don't want to pay... No, I'm not gonna negotiate it either. Just put it down. Let them go to court! Then I'll support the cabinet. Then you can lose that can always be done by the judge, but you can also win. That's one. Finally, Mr President. My final point concerns the legal road; it is somewhat in line with Mrs Dik-Faber's point. Honestly, I'm an economist from home, not a lawyer at all. I always assumed that in the Netherlands the judge always looked very closely when you went somewhere, especially in administrative law, and that justice was done. But what has happened in the case of childcare allowances has opened my eyes to that. You can go to the Council of State, the highest judge in the Netherlands, and it doesn't even look at the substance of such a case to see if it's a little reasonable. That's why I'm paying more attention now. There is a difference between the NAM and the government, which now takes over liability. This also means that you can't go to the civil court anymore, but you have to go to the administrative court. This can make a substantial difference in people's approach. I have read some of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and I know all the more complicated, but in practice I want the commitment that when people go to court, their case is assessed in substance on reasonableness and fairness, with reversal of the burden of proof as a starting point; the Chamber adopted the amendment on that last time. That is, of course, very important. If that's not possible... Groningers aren't Americans, so soon they won't go to court, but people will always go to court. If that is not the starting point, this will be the next basis for mistrust towards the rule of law. So I really want a very precise answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u114	Thank you. A brief question, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u115	I heard Mr Nijboer say: the law can get the support of the PvdA if it is thoroughly rebuilt...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u116	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u117	We have a whole bunch of amendments. If those amendments, or part of them, or a substantial part of them, are adopted, will the PvdA support this law, or is it already no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u118	It depends on which amendments. Look, an evaluation clause never gets over my head, Mrs Bromet can understand that. But I have made one together with Mrs Beckerman that amendment is on its way to ensure that the core of damage and recovery is brought into one hand. That is about one of my fundamental criticisms, so if that is accepted... We can't take back that time. I think that is a point of criticism, but I can't take it back. But the other is a very important element for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u119	So the PvdA will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u120	If the law is fundamentally converted for good, I vote yes. It's not that complicated. If I like a law, I vote in favour, and if I don't like a law, I don't vote in favour. The law as it stands, I'm not going to support it. If it is fundamentally grown, for the benefit of the Groningen people, I will support it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u121	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 30 minutes. I propose that we suspend until 5:05 p.m., just a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u122	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mulder, who wishes to make an order proposal. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr. Chairman. We have just had a little discussion with the various parties about the further treatment of this law, because because of corona and curfew at 7 p.m. and we foresee that we may need more time. We also want to treat this law properly. Many amendments have been tabled, on which we want a good opinion from both ministers. Our proposal would therefore be to do the second deadline on 24 February, when the Chamber is already coming back from recess. We may already have the second term of office today. If that is the case, at least we have the government's second term on that date. Before then, we would like a written response to all our amendments, so that we can take them into account in that second period. I hope this can be done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u124	It seems like a very carefully thought-out plan. I'll take a look at the rulers, too. They have more air like that. This way we can treat this law as best we can. Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u125	Another addition: we would like to vote on this law and the amendments on the 25th. Then we have everything in order and we can see it well, because some of the amendments that are already in preparation are not yet in the Chamber. Let's straighten it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u126	Fine. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u127	Thank you. It also seems to us to be a careful way of dealing with this law. So thank you for that. It is indeed important that the latest versions of the amendments can be properly assessed and evaluated. We told each other we weren't gonna make it to 7:00. This solution certainly contributes to careful treatment; thank you. Mr. Chairman. I'll start today. My new colleague from EZK will reply after me. First, I will say something briefly and then go into the law, including the question of damage and strengthening, about which a lot of questions have been asked and comments have been made. Then I will deal with the strengthening operation as it is currently under way and the link with the administrative arrangements, to which we have already devoted legislative consultation. Next, the Minister of EZK deals with damage, the general security frameworks bill, the standards and the relationship with the NAM. That's gross modo the layout you can expect. Given the procedural proposal from your Chamber earlier, we will therefore make the assessment of the amendments in writing, in preparation for the finalisation of the debate on the 24th. Mr. Chairman. May I begin by underlining what you yourself said and what Mr Nijboer repeated? We are talking here about strengthening the Law, we are talking about Groningen, we are talking about the Groningers and we are talking without the Groningers in the public gallery. Yeah, that feels weird. That is why I would also like to thank Mrs Beckerman for offering the black book. I've browsed through it; that's all I could do right now, of course. It's actually a book that could also be called "best Sandra," because that's the epitome of almost every letter in it. Of course, we have known for some time that there are people in Groningen who have gotten into a terrible mess. Those indeed ended up in a maze between the institutions. It's been a long time. We also go to Groningen, regularly, and also talk to the residents. I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman that, of course, the cabinet is willing to talk to the people who have contributed to this black book. I'm going back to Groningen at the end of the month, maybe I can talk to them already. But, of course, we'd love to do that very much. Every time I'm there, I try to put these people's experience at the heart of this dossier. I always try not only to talk to administrators, but also to residents and civil society organisations. What I heard from the beginning was: give us back the direction. It didn't really matter who I was talking to, whether it was a tenant or the owner of a monumental piece of heritage, they all actually said the same thing. That is why I, with the administrators, with the province, with the municipalities, started working on this approach. This has led to solutions, and the Court has also specifically asked for them, for example, for differences that exist, really undesirable differences. It has also been said today: Ascended in Appingedam and the Sandplatenbuurt in Delfzijl. There are many kitchen table conversations as it is called before. I am really glad that my impression, my approach, has been the basis for making the administrative arrangements with that extra 1.5 billion, with those measures and with that direction back with the residents. Although progress can be seen, for example because there are more places where demolition and new construction are visible, and although more and more people actually have the reinforcement advice, I am very much aware that it is taking far too long for many people and that perspective is incredibly important for every human being and especially for these inhabitants of the earthquake area. We need to keep a close eye on it and I will keep a close eye on residents getting clarity, that they know where they stand with their reinforcement advice. The aim is therefore that all residents have that clarity before the summer. We discussed this in detail last time. Then there's the bill. First of all, I am very pleased that the Chamber has decided to deal with it despite the resignation of the cabinet. I think that also sounded like in the first term from the Chamber that if we put the residents at the centre, it is very important that we take this step together and that there will be a law. Perhaps an improved law with the amendments that are on the table here, but that this law will come means a step. A step in the right direction, because we need the law to be able to do what we have agreed to, in order to do what we have promised. It is the basis for the financial compensation for owners who opt for a re-evaluation. It's about giving influence and direction to residents in strengthening their home. It is a process of strengthening as transparent as possible. It's about guarantees, it's about legal protection, it's about legal certainty. And it is also about coordination in the co-operation between bodies in this approach. This bill actually regulates all the subjects on which there has been a regular exchange of views between the Cabinet and the Chamber. It can actually be seen as a kind of legal conclusion to a process that has indeed been going on for a long time, but that the cabinet has entered into the principle decision to remove the NAM from this system and to take full public control of the reinforcement, just like the damage settlement, which had been taken before, and then to recover the security costs from the NAM. Of course, we'll continue with that. The NCG already had to cooperate with the municipalities, but this approach is more firmly anchored in this approach. I think that's very important, too. So it's not the beginning of the reinforcement operation; it's already there. When I got this as a responsibility, it was more than a year ago, in the autumn of 2019 the reinforcement operation was already there. So it's not like we're gonna start anything with this. The fact is that this is a better way to shape, give direction and allocate. Something has already happened, and I hope we can take this step now to anchor it much better. In the end, it is not about the administrative agreements of November, not about legislation that we are making here, but it is about contributing to what we want, that the residents see and notice. You know that the NCG also publishes regularly on the state of play. I will not repeat what they have recently published. But it's going, I dare say, carefully in the right direction, including the numbers. We also know that demolition and new construction has a long lead time. But I am glad to be able to report to the Chamber regularly on progress and to see progress there as well. Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to say that as an introduction: stop the gas extraction, the NAM outside the system, a different approach, residents central and try to bring it forward with this legislation. We all know that has just been recalled, I believe that Mr Kops is still experiencing earthquakes in Groningen, with some regularity. We knew that too, it wouldn't stop right away. That could go on for a while. This means every time that people are startled and people who are already suffering from the fear of earthquakes or concerns about the safety of their homes are constantly being pushed to the ground. So the stocking is not finished with this and I realize that very well. Let me take a look at the appointments of November 6th. These are agreements whereby, at least, we can compensate some of the people, those whose houses do not need to be strengthened because of security. That's a form of satisfaction, to all residents, whether they're tenants or owners. That comes on top of the damage that is still being compensated, anyway, by the IMG. There will be a combination with the typology approach, so that we can really speed up and provide more clarity. The usefulness and necessity of this approach have been confirmed by the ACVG. So it is a basis for residents to give them what they are entitled to, but in the end that is also very often said here too................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is so important that it must be implemented. It needs to keep pace and get, get even faster. That is also steadily increasing. I think that with the steps that have been taken, but also with this law and with the clarity for the performers and the residents, the Groningers are going to notice something about these improvements. Mrs De Vries and others have asked: is this really helping to speed up the task that we already knew there was? I'd say yes to that. Because, one, it is important to speed up and, two, by clarifying the processes, there is going to be one integrated reinforcement decision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There will also be one point of contact for the owner, for the resident. I shall now turn to my colleague's comments on the question of administrative legal protection. This legislative proposal also improves such matters. In addition, there will be faster assessment methods. We will further lay down this in general measures of governance. I recall the practical approach, which allows owners to take the lead and start working with a contractor, the typology approach, which I mentioned earlier, which saves time and the assessment and distribution of responsibilities between the authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u128	I also said in my input that in 2018, the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, said he was deeply sorry. He said he was sorry. In 2019 he apologized three times and in 2021 Rutte said: this is a stain on my premiership. I hear the Minister now saying all kinds of things that we have heard many times in the meantime: direction, resident central, now finally tempo. Every time in the last few years we've heard that and every time that didn't go well. Why would it be okay this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u129	What I've been trying to say is that this law, this step we're taking in the reinforcement approach, is not starting over with a clean slate. It is a step in a process that is not going well enough, but I think it is going better and is moving in the right direction. I think that's the most important thing. The people, Mrs Beckerman, know them and I know them as well as those who have not yet been helped, have of course not been helped by the adoption of the bill. But that we first stopped the gas extraction, then actually took the NAM out of the process, then asked the NCG to do that reinforcement, actually moved away from the engineering approach, which I think Mr Nijboer rightly criticises, and went looking for an approach in which the resident is at the centre, I think are all steps on the road to improvement, from a sometimes very poignant situation. I'll just share that with Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u130	It sounds very nice, those words "the resident center," but if you read back all the newspaper articles the day after a parliamentary debate of the past eight years, then every time the conclusion is: the Chamber was angry, but now it is finally going to be okay; the resident central, direction. But from the left to the right, today, we have found that this law does not succeed. Residents can still get in between government wheels. Residents can still drown in that bureaucratic swamp. In fact, the most pressing question we have from left to right is: it will not work if we continue to approach damage and reinforcement separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u131	I want to go into detail later on about damage and reinforcements. A lot of questions have been asked about this, including by Mrs Beckerman. But when I think back to a little year ago... I just came back from sick leave and had a debate here with the Chamber. Then I was told what Mrs Beckerman actually says: see first, then believe. I think that's a fair point. Then we agreed: there is a litmus test and that is Opwierde, Appingedam. I don't know if that word was Mrs Beckerman's. That might be possible, but maybe it was also from one of the other spokesmen. It was indeed Mrs Mulder. There there was great displeasure among residents about a different approach. One part of the residents did get something and the other part didn't. That's where I dive in. I picked up the room glove. I made arrangements with the residents about how to deal with that forgotten corner in Appingedam. I almost wish you could deal with each individual case in this way, but that has been the eye opener for me: that's how it should be! Listen to the residents. Listen to their story. Talk to that council. Don't look for anything that can't be done, but find out how it can. That's it. That's how I want to do it. I welcome the administrative arrangements, the cluster approach, because there were more of those forgotten corners. They're all in that approach now. I think that with the law that is now before us, we cannot help everyone immediately, but we can lay a foundation for furthering the approach that the Chamber wanted to take on the gauntlet that I have picked up on a basis that provides clarity. Then I'll come to the question... no, let me do some damage and strengthening. Let me finish what I wanted to say for the first time. There are also a number of questions that have been asked. I hear Mrs Beckerman pulling the parallel with the supplemental affair. I understand. When we talk about people who, without any fault whatsoever, have got into trouble, who have not come out with public authorities and who do not feel helped, I understand it in parallel. We are all very much aware of that. We see the reports of the professionals, of the University of Groningen and others about the psychological problems that have arisen and about people's illness. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. There's a big difference, though. This is a system failure, Mr Wiebes was cited; he has called it "for too long" because people have had to wait for a solution to the damage to their homes or to strengthen their homes because of security. But these residents were never wrongly dismissed or treated as fraudsters, as was the case in the premium affair. Of course, that's terrible. These residents have fallen victim, beyond their own fault, to gas extraction and earthquakes, and are entitled to a fair treatment by the government. That is our responsibility. We have to make sure of that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the crisis approach. A question has also been asked there, as well as about the SodM opinion. Why is this not a crisis approach, Mr Kops asked. That goes back a little bit to the debate between Mr Nijboer and some of your Members. You're basically putting two things at the centre: safety... Of course, for safety it all started, so of course safety is paramount. Of course, you want all those homes in Groningen to comply with safety standards, but we did add something to that. We sometimes deviate a little from what, for example, the Council of State and others have said about this. We said, "We want to put the resident at the center." We're not going to strengthen whatever the resident wants and whatever effect that has on the resident's house. We are not going to do the proverbial beam through the living room without the consent of the resident. We're doing it with the resident, and I think that's a legitimate choice. I think that's also a choice that the Groningen and the Chamber want. Sometimes it takes a little more time, but we'll just have to take that for granted. The same applies to the role of the municipalities. How can you do the right things in the living environment? How can you take sustainability with you while you're working on strengthening a home? For that kind of thing, you want to take the space, and you want to be able to talk to the resident about that. You have to be able to take your time. But that doesn't change how serious it is or how we experience it. We do see it as a crisis that has arisen as a result of the gas extraction in Groningen, our country. But this is a choice in pace and above all in commitment. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to comment on Mr Nijboer's village-oriented approach. This has indeed gone into stages. There has been a phase of an almost exclusively territorial approach, but then exactly what Mr Sienot and others said happened. Then you're not sure if you're the first to strengthen the most risky houses, and of course that has to be done. Safety must be paramount in this respect. That's what we want to hold on to. It is a security operation, but we are very open to an area-oriented and village-oriented approach. This is also enshrined in the last administrative arrangements with the regional authorities. We do this now at Krewerd, at Steendam, at Tjuchem and at other areas where this is desirable. Mr Nijboer knows them all very well. In these administrative arrangements, funds were made available to the municipalities precisely to facilitate that type of customization and coherence within the villages, the village centres and the neighbourhoods. Mr. Chairman. Finally, civil society organisations, before I move on to damage and strengthen. The Social Charter has been mentioned here. Mrs Mulder mentioned that. I know that, and I've talked about that. I recently had a detailed discussion with all the members of the Groninger Gas Council. It makes recommendations to make it as easy as possible for the resident. These recommendations are very useful and we can embrace them as a cabinet and take them with us. I am truly grateful to these civil society organisations for the role they play, because they point to the needs of the inhabitants of the earthquake area. We are doing our best in several ways to ensure that these recommendations are taken into account. For example, this legislative proposal focuses on a clear process of strengthening. We offer accessible legal protection. They think that's important. The owner can pick it up himself and have the means at his disposal. The cluster approach, which I was just talking about, and inexplicable differences we want to avoid. The funds have also been made available for this purpose. We have also set the agenda for the future. We've informed the Chamber about that, too. This is a future agenda that takes into account the economic and sustainable development of the region. The government has made very concrete agreements, for example on housing, on energy transition and on the regional economy. In short, about many things. Those agreements are also about their financing. We are doing what civil society organisations are asking us to do. Moreover, I have agreed to this last time in my consultation with them, and we will ensure a structural dialogue between the government and civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u132	The minister says that there is a lot of area-oriented happening in the villages. That's true, of course. Only, the law before it says: security must really be guiding in all those decisions. The Council of State has also stressed this very much, and the Minister says so too. We are dealing with the law, so I find it very unfortunate that it is being placed so at the forefront, when all these villages are concerned with the question: how do we want to live in the future? I would ask the Minister to respond more precisely. On the one hand, she says "we care about that too," but on the other hand, this law is just a security operation. That doesn't go so well with each other, certainly not in the practice of the villages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u133	I think it is a combination of the administrative agreements we have made and the law that is now before us. The only point on which Mr Nijboer and I differ a little bit: it is important, also for people's confidence, to keep that security at the centre. There's just no security. So you have to be able to trust that if it is really unsafe, it will be tackled with high priority. The most risky houses must therefore be given the highest priority. Of course, that's still a bit of an engineering approach, you could reason. At the same time, therefore, we have consulted for a long time with the municipalities in the region, and with the regional administrators, we have given them a very central position in this law. Because my reasoning as Minister for Foreign Affairs is often: the municipalities are closest to their residents. They do know best what lives and what needs to be done. Mr Nijboer talked about certain public services, he talked about monuments. I think the municipality has the best view of that. So we give ample space and plenty of room for agreements that the municipalities themselves make and on which their municipal councils agree, so that reinforcement and development can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u134	I think there is indeed the biggest difference. If it's acutely unsafe, the place is falling apart, the walls are falling apart, and we need to shove, then it's obvious. But this operation, of course, is mainly about whether a house is theoretically safe, where you then arrive at the chance of once every 100,000 years. I really don't think that's the right basis for setting priorities for your village. That's what's really strong in this law. That's not what's in those administrative agreements, which is more in line with this. I think it's good to realize that. I think that people in Groningen have gone completely mad over the endless procedures, the unclearness and the agreements that have not been fulfilled. A number of people have also gone mad because of safety, but I think that group is relatively limited. That whole mold of security is now being laid over all those villages and used as a sort of balancing when something may or may not be. That's what I'm very worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u135	It is good that Mr Nijboer expresses that concern. But if you look back at this very engineering approach, everyone here knows well the jargon of batches, the NPR and so on, then I think we have now moved on to a different approach, in which we put those homes and especially the people who live in them, and in which those municipalities are also very well hooked. So I really think we are going a long way towards what Mr Nijboer wants, without falling into what Mr Sienot pointed out: what did not go quite well in the fully territorial approach then we are talking about years ago is that it replaced safety. I therefore hope that we have managed to capture the best of these two worlds. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to Mrs Beckerman's point and others on the link between damage and reinforcement. It was quoted from the documents that we sent to the Chamber, in which we pointed out in particular the differences between damages and reinforcement. That's right. What we have tried to make clear is that damage handling and strengthening do indeed differ substantially in the nature of the work and sometimes in the dynamics of what needs to be done. Sometimes it takes different expertise. It also has a different pace. It is therefore fundamentally different operations, which also make other demands on the organisations they carry out. What I tried to explain in those pieces is that the occurrence of damage is not necessarily an indication of whether or not an earthquake-resistant construction is. The effect of damage does not necessarily mean that the construction is unsafe and therefore needs to be reinforced. By the way, it is also true: if there is no damage at all, it may still be necessary to strengthen. That's why we've chosen two types of operations at two different organizations. Both organisations have, of course, already gained the necessary experience. That's another underlying argument. I shall now come to the question of cooperation, which is, of course, very crucial. We now have two different organizations, each with a different type of suspension. What if you chose to merge them? It's possible. You have more organizations that carry out different types of work. But I have seen at close range how incredibly much time and energy it took to ride the Centrum Safe Living with or merge with the NCG. That has been a time-consuming and energy-slurring journey. So we didn't choose that. But I fully agree with everyone who has said that these two organisations should work together and that the operations, i.e. damage and strengthening, should also run together where possible, as well as if the owner or resident chooses to do so. That is a very important point. That is actually crucial: not saying "it has to" from the outside, but always offering that opportunity to those who decide, namely the resident. An initial inventory, asking about the experiences of owners with this combination, also shows that they often say that the pace is different. That just varies, because owners would like to have that compensation soon. They don't want to wait. The reinforcement operation will take more time. There are also owners who want an integral balance. So it's also a matter of taste and customization. That is why we have asked the IMG and the NCG to actively approach all owners, if there are any files at both organisations, with the question of whether they want to see this taken up in conjunction. I also said just now that both parties signed a cooperation agreement with each other setting out the agreements on the related treatment of damage and strengthening. The Chamber has also been informed about this. Finally, the law lays down a basis for setting rules under ministerial rules on how the NCG and the IMG coordinate cooperation. That is a far-reaching step to enforce that cooperation. Suggestions have also been made in this Chamber, including in the case of amendment. We will, of course, respond to that, but in any case we have said that this cooperation must and must be enforceable. We can arrange this from the covenant, we can regulate it legally, and we can regulate it in terms of implementation, but at least we have to put the resident at the centre. For the moment, we have said that we can include this in a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u136	There are several questions about this. I'm gonna try and do it nicely. I first saw Mrs Dik-Faber, then Mrs Beckerman, then Mrs Mulder and then Mr Sienot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u137	I also asked the Minister whether she was aware of how often people are dealing with both damage and reinforcement. I ask that question because I have the impression that the Ministry thinks that this is not very common. But as soon as I talk to people in Groningen, I hear it over and over again. I really feel like it's tens of percent, maybe half. I don't know, but doesn't the Minister make the problem smaller than it really is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u138	Well, I don't want to make it any smaller. In fact, I want to say that wherever it occurs, so wherever those two subsets touch and overlap, the inhabitant determines whether it happens together. Therefore, in all cases where there is both a file at the IMG for damage and a file at the NCG for strengthening, that possibility should also be actively offered. I do not have what percentage that is exactly, but I understand that Mr Van 't Wout will be able to say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u139	I hear the minister use words like "collaboration" and "coherence." Those sound like nice words, but what's happening now is this. You have an institution that has a file. That's the institute that's about the reinforcements. And you have another institute in another place, which also has a file on damages. These two institutions must work together, but that does not mean that there will be one plan for the residents. You can see that two different pathways may be carried out side by side, parallel to each other, and that somewhere in that house there might be some more coming together. But what residents want is just one plan with one result. Whatever's in the bill now, I don't think it's gonna work. So it has to be more than converging; it just has to be one plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u140	There we do not disagree; not at all, even. There are certainly cases where there is both damage and reinforcement. Sometimes this also applies to the most complex cases. Of course, then, you want to know that that's exactly what I'm saying... that the resident can choose to have one plan, unless the resident says: no, I don't want that, that complicates things for me too much, just do the damage handling a little faster and then I'll take the time with the NCG to see how best to deal with the reinforcement issue. The choice seems to me to be wise. At the same time, I can imagine that we are perhaps improving the law here with each other on the issue of cooperation and the offer to the inhabitant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u141	This really is another example of a reality in The Hague that is really at odds with the Groninger reality. If you don't know better and you listen to such a debate for the first time, then you think this sounds quite nice. It's gonna be picked up in one go, unless the resident wants it to be different. But the reality in Groningen is very different. I was just telling the story of Eltje and Alida. On both sides of the farm they have struts. They've been fighting for years. There are two routes completely separate from each other. Nothing moves except the apartment itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u142	And what is the specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u143	The Minister says that the law is already good and I can see if it can do anything better. But from left to right, we don't think it's good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, not at all. People like Eltje and Alida, who have already been mentioned in the example, who have apparently been in this situation for years, have obviously had to do with the old situation. We are now slowly but surely working towards this new situation. The only thing I want to take away here is the idea that residents would not be able to choose to tackle harm and strengthening in conjunction. It's possible. Any resident who so wishes must be able to carry out damage and reinforcement at the same time. That choice should also be actively offered to them. All I'm saying is that some residents don't choose to do that because the pace varies. So if people want that, they can choose to put damage first, because that usually goes faster, and then the backup after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u145	Then I hear the Minister say that a covenant has now been concluded between the organization that does damage and the organization that strengthens and that that is a step forward. But a report has been made to listen to the experiences of the people who work there. They themselves say: it is madness. On page 26, it's specifically about that covenant. It says: this is not yet the case, in particular because the procedures differ and the time frame of decision-making differs. That's what I keep saying. Even the people who have to do it say it's crazy. Some of the people we're talking about are even fleeing the province, as we were able to read yesterday. The Chamber says from left to right that this does not work and that it is not good enough. Can the Minister be specific? How's she gonna make it better? Because we have all made proposals for this, but the Minister says that we are on the right track and that things are getting a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u146	Well, it's gotta be better. Mrs Beckerman and I share that completely. The question is, how do you do it best? My point is that it is best that you let the two organisations do their parts, namely the damage to the IMG and the reinforcement at the NCG. But if there's overlap, you have to actively offer to do it in conjunction. I understand by now that there is such overlap in a small one-third of cases. No one, in any organization, can hide behind "that's not allowed" or "we have to go to it first." We hear these stories, and of course nobody wants to hear them. That is why we have now decided, for example, that the organisations simply have the mandate they need. So we give them the mandate and, more importantly, we make an urgent and compelling appeal to do it together. We think this law is gonna be better than it is. However, as I said in my introductory remarks, it is about implementation. It's really about the execution. But it's also about putting the residents at the centre. And it is also a matter of whether it is up to the resident to opt for an integrated approach or a separate one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u147	In any case, it is a gain that the Minister here today has made a commitment to Mrs Dik-Faber on questions from the whole Chamber, I think, that there will be one plan per household. I think that's great news. Now, of course, we hope that it will be introduced very quickly, that it will not take very long. That brings me to the execution test, for which I have argued in my contribution. In my view, this implementation test should not be confined to the issue raised by the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gasberraad in that letter from IMG to the two ministers. As far as I am concerned, this performance test goes even deeper, namely more towards the future. Suppose you were eventually going to have one organization, then the steps that could possibly be taken on the road to make those residents even more central should also be looked at. Can this implementation test be promised by the ministers today? Do they wish to remove this question from the two bodies? Can it then come to the Chamber between now and a few months so that we can talk about this and that it is clear what the rules are about, in an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u148	Thanks for the question. I have listened carefully to the concerns of the Court about the coherence between the treatment of damages and the strengthening. The Chamber has heard me very well and I have said that there is indeed the possibility of a joint approach for those people to whom that applies. That's what I'm happy to endorse. The same is true of the execution test. I think that is a valid point. We will ensure that the general measure of governance and the ministerial arrangement can also be implemented in a way that can be implemented by the parties. The AMvB has now been widely consulted, also via an internet consultation. We will also do so before the ministerial arrangement to be consulted. We will do so in consultation with the two organisations, because they must also sign for it to be feasible in this way. I would like to assure Mrs Mulder and the rest of the House that this performance test will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you for this commitment. But can we receive their opinions on this in a separate document from the organisations? I am referring to the implementation test they are carrying out and what the ministers then do with it. Then we can just weigh it for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u150	That's good. We'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u151	Okay. It's a commitment, too. Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u152	Thank you to the Minister for her commitments and the clarity on this point. I would like to ask one more question about the cooperation between the IMG and the NCG. There's a covenant, the minister says so too, but it's not going very well in the implementation. I get a lot of questions about that. I just kept a whole story about early signaling and laying down signals, so I'm just gonna put it in the group here. That covenant is a fantastic plan. Your adherence to intentions is often a lot more difficult, as we all know. This is also about the cultural change Mrs De Vries mentioned. I think we got something here. We want the same thing and now we have to make sure that it goes well in its implementation, as the Minister says. How are we gonna do that? How are we going to get the signals about not working properly from the covenant into action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr Sienot always says it with great enthusiasm. I appreciate that. That is also necessary, I think, enthusiasm. I think it is also necessary for organisations to experience that they have the space to do their professional work. And that they know that. In the administrative arrangements, for example, we ensured for the NCG that they have additional resources that they can use as they see fit to solve certain bottlenecks. Now they had to go every time they got stuck to municipalities, the province or EZK or BZK. That must also be the mindset of these organizations. So there are two points, the resident central and have the space to do your job, make decisions, cut buttons and work results. And be rewarded with it if it goes well. I told you, the results are beginning to be achieved with caution. The numbers are rising. There is still a very big task ahead, but I think it is very satisfactory for the people who work in the implementation to be able to show results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u154	Mr Sienot, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u155	Would it be possible for me to ask for an update at another update to show you the effects of those important points that the Minister mentions, about more freedom of action and the linking of budget to them, so that we can tell it more easily everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u156	Yes, but if you try to clarify it even further, so that you, so to speak, want to link every euro to a result, we are going to build too much bureaucracy. That will not be Mr Sienot's intention. I think that especially the regular updates of the NCG on the reinforcement, on the dashboards and throughout the process of recording up to and including delivery, should make it clear and transparent that it actually works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u157	I'd still like to get a little clearer. There are also examples where it is noted that there is no need for reinforcement, but there is damage. That damage, so to speak, returns four, five, six times. Then you can say, "I'm gonna fix that crack in the same wall every time." But isn't it more convenient to see how you can prevent that crack from happening all the time? What authority is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u158	That's damage. It's about sustainable recovery and damage. Mr. Van 't Wout will discuss that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u159	Can I therefore ask how it is determined whether preventive measures should be taken and when it is decided that they should be allowed to do so preventively?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u160	I think it's best to treat that with "damage." We have just found that, if it is both, both damage and strengthening, it needs to be solved in a common approach. If there is no need to strengthen and if there is damage that can be done, then in practice it requires a different approach to restore it sustainably. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this has dealt with the whole issue of cooperation and what is needed to ensure that we can work together if the citizen so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u161	Then the administrative arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u162	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u163	Are we going to the next block, the administrative arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u164	Well, almost. There's another block in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u165	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u166	I have a few more questions about the law, but I would like to say something about sustainability. Mr Sienot had a question about that. If you do damage and strengthening in conjunction as much as possible, you want to take the sustainability with you wherever you can or wish. If the reinforcement and role of the NCG can be taken into account, including sustainability, then this is part of the same integrated plan. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Sienot. Mr Sienot also knows that the subsidy can then be used on the basis of the administrative arrangements for sustainability. A few more questions about the law, Mr. Chairman. I thought one question was very important. Mrs Mulder asked: do the municipalities really want this? Because they are given quite an important role. The short answer is yes. The longer answer I have just said a bit when I replied to Mr Nijboer: it is important that these municipalities do so, because they have the best view of the situation of their inhabitants and know most of the municipal local developments, the things that come to people anyway. They are given the power, by adopting the programmes of approach, to shape that reinforcement exercise, together with the implementing body, the NCG. These are programs that are established by the city council. The city council has its regular role, as it always has in area development, construction projects and that sort of thing. They therefore determine the framework, they determine the planning and also the prioritisation. They will be given a central role in the reinforcement task. I think the municipalities are best equipped to do this. I'm glad they want to take that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u167	At this point. In the study of Postmes and Stroebe in January, one of the comments was that we have this duty of care as a municipality, but we do not have the mandate to deal with it. I mentioned in my contribution as an example how it went with the letter sent to 13,000 people, households falling into category A. That's where you're gonna miss it. How does the Minister see that? If that is a harbinger of how this is going to work out, I am very concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u168	I want to make a distinction between the role of the municipality that can involve the local context, and informing the residents about the specific task that lies ahead of their home. The latter is the elaboration of the administrative arrangements. In the administrative arrangements we said that residents for whom there is already a reinforcement advice, but who are given the option to do a re-evaluation, will be informed by the NCG before the end of the year. If those residents are informed, they should be given the opportunity to ask questions to the NCG. Those questions also need to be answered. Mrs Mulder has information that this has not gone well in all cases. Since I heard that from her, I asked the NCG. The NCG claims to have done what was agreed. So they've informed that group of residents. Other groups will be notified in the course of spring. There is an information number of the NCG, which is referred to in the letter, where residents should be able to go. The intention was not to send the residents to the municipality for questions at that time. If they have reached the municipality, it may be that that municipality didn't know what to answer, because the information was available at the NCG. This is really the NCG's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u169	Then I hope that the second group that is about to be informed, Group B, in which there are over 4,000 people, knows that one has to react towards the NCG and not towards the municipality. The duty of care is taken seriously by the municipal officials, who are of course very involved. You can see this in the research of Postmes and Stroebe: all these people are working on it with heart and soul. It is very nice that there are people there who do, but apparently there is a lot of uncertainty about roles and mandates, even among those professionals. I therefore hope that our Minister will work to remove this ambiguity with the region and say that the NCG is the only point of contact. Otherwise, this isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u170	I agree with Mrs Mulder. We also need to learn where that hasn't gone well. I'm interested in knowing that very precisely. This is the deal we made. The NCG has that part. The NCG has the mandate and the municipality determines the broader framework, but when it comes to a resident, the reinforcement advice and the choices made by the resident, the NCG has to provide the guidance and the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u171	A very brief final word, because we're doing the interruptions in half. Otherwise, we won't get out with the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u172	My question is: how does the Minister currently assess the organisation of the NCG? What else does the NCG need to get his role right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u173	That's a good question. I have regular consultations on Groningen, where the NCG is also present. Of course, I asked that question to the National Coordinator Groningen. One of the most important points was: the room for decision-making and the financial resources, because sometimes the way it was organised is blocked. The agreement in the November governance agreement, whereby these funds were allocated to the NCG, the policy rule and the legislative proposal that is now before us and which makes it clear who has what mandate and what scope the NCG has, are exactly the things that the coordinator has asked for. In anticipation of what we can now hopefully meet, we have already seen that the National Coordinator is much more upset than the initial situation, including the acquisition of the CVW's files and the matters we have just talked about. I think that these two new instruments could be done much better, also in cooperation with the IMG. Then I'll come back to what we just discussed. That clarity and that space for the experts is very important. I forgot to mention in the question whether the municipalities support this, that the regional leaders sent a letter to the Chamber to support this bill. Mr. Chairman. I feel like I need to go through it a little faster, because I want to give my colleague Van 't Wout every opportunity. I think I've talked about the civil society organisations. I consider Mrs Bromet's question about small municipalities to be an important one. She's worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u174	I see that Mrs De Vries still has a short question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u175	We also get signals from people who say: I have been trying to merge cases for eight years now, on the one hand, strengthen and, on the other hand, damage, but that still doesn't work. Eight years. Then the question is where such a person can go to make sure that they are joined together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u176	It's awfully annoying when that happens. That's a bit of what Mrs Beckerman says. We can't make up for much of those years. But at the moment, with the administrative agreements, with the covenant that is now in place and with the view of this law, those people could always go to one of the two points of contact, whether they choose the damage side or the reinforcement side, and they should simply be able to say: we want a common approach; we have both damage and right of reinforcement and we want both organisations to tell us how we can deal with this together and in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u177	I think eight years is a little more than "annoying."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u178	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u179	I think this gives people a lot of stress, frustration and disappointment. But if that doesn't work out again, despite the nice arrangements that have been made, where can this person go? Where can he report that he's still not getting through?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u180	There are only two points of contact where that person can now report again, I fully share the word 'frustration' and worse words 'in fact' at the IMG or the NCG. Those are the two counters. If that still can't... that shouldn't be possible, because it's either damage, or strengthening. In this case, it is people who have both, who have to do with both organisations. They simply have the right to say: I want these organisations to solve my damage and reinforcement problem together. Again, of course, there are people who have a very complex problem. It's gonna be hard, but it's gonna have to be solved anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u181	I see Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Mulder at the Interrupt Microphone, but I do not think it will help if we make this round ten times, because I do not think we will get an answer from the Minister other than the answer she gives. I am also looking at the time: if we want to be ready at 7 p.m. and the Minister for Economic Affairs also wants to have questions answered, then we are running out of time. So I would just like to ask the Minister to continue with the answer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u182	May I make a brief order proposal, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u184	Let us say that we are left with questions which are no longer addressed to the other minister, can we do some sort of livestock land, if time permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u185	I think that's convenient, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u186	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u187	You have also interrupted on this point. I'm gonna try to get the rulers to continue with the answer. Then we'll see what's left. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mrs Bromet expressed concerns about the smaller municipalities, for which it could be particularly difficult. By the way, there has been a reclassification in Groningen, so you hardly have any really small municipalities there anymore. But it is a valid point. We have also made additional resources available in the administrative agreement, precisely to ensure that this support is properly regulated by the municipalities. $70 million has been made available. A joint support office has been set up by the municipalities to help with this. This also works intensively with the NCG, which also plays a supporting and facilitating role. In this way, and with these guarantees, we believe, as well as the regional leaders and the NCG, that the smaller municipalities are also able to fulfil the role they could play. In any case, there is periodic consultation between the Ministry and the municipal secretaries, so if necessary, if there are any bottlenecks, we can help with expertise, human power, or whatever. Then we can just jump in where we need to. Many comments have been made on the deadline for adopting a strengthening decision, by Mrs De Vries and others. It now states that the NCG must take a strengthening decision within one year of sharing an assessment. I also said that the NCG must make an effort to do so more quickly. I would like to point out, however, that we all want to be quick and as soon as possible, that sometimes a much shorter period is simply not feasible. We also want to take the time to work out a strengthening decision with the residents. This is a process in which both residents and the NCG need to be given time to properly map and investigate different choices and consequences of choices. If it's very complicated, no one wants it, but sometimes a reinforcement is really a complicated operation, then there is the possibility of extending the deadline. But once again, of course, we are striving to speed up the decision in consultation with the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u189	Mrs Dik-Faber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u190	Mr President, one brief question. Sometimes that period of one year is required, for example when it comes to complex situations. I can imagine that, but is it not much better to include a new standard in the legislative proposal, for example that in principle all decisions are taken within six months? If it is complex then, a run to a year could be possible. That would require amendment of the legislative proposal, but at least there would be a new standard with new speed and new urgency. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u191	I would argue very strongly that we should leave it at a maximum of a year. I don't think you're doing justice to what we want, namely that you're taking that resident in a reasonable way in the options that are there for the resident and that you're actually giving the resident the opportunity to make choices in a responsible way. I think you're putting too much pressure on that trajectory at the moment you shorten those deadlines and also that the residents will feel pressured. So I'm not for it. I'm in favour of doing it faster, if that's possible. That is the order we give to the NCG. I am in favour of that, but that is actually the opposite of what Mrs Dik-Faber is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u192	It is not just that it is a year, because there is also a possibility of extension. For proper legal treatment and for legal history, it is important that it says "special cases" and "reasonable period." For me that is vague, because I think: then everything can be done. After all, you can put a lot of things under "special cases." I think it is important for the Minister to give us some examples here, and when this could be the case, because that is part of the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u193	Agreed. I am thinking, for example, of the large farms in Groningen which have already been mentioned here or of the larger demolition new construction routes, which involve many inhabitants. Those are, of course, more complex cases. I also agree with Mrs De Vries that we should talk about what is a reasonable period of time. Of course, that depends on the case and I hope that the NCG will succeed in shortening that piece in consultation with the residents, so that we will not see at all that it is always a year. Anyway, that conversation with the residents is very important. My ambition is really to speed that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u194	"My ambition is to speed that up." That sounds very nice, but in practice residents have been waiting for a sickening eight years and sometimes much longer. Mr. Chairman. The minister's own supervisor says: if you do this in the law and really take a year with the possibility of running, people will be in insecurity for far too long. We don't think of that, says our own supervisor! The Minister says 'with this law I put security and tempo first', but that is simply not true, because it says literally in the law: we take far too much time and we can also go beyond it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u195	The overrun is really meant for those complex cases. I just gave a few examples of where that might play. It's the exception and not the rule. My experience is that people want to know what they're up to. If people know what they are up to, then they also have the need to think carefully, to be able to weigh alternatives and to have a serious conversation and come back when they have reservations. I'd love to leave the room for that. And I'm also afraid that we'll put pressure on the execution and also put pressure on the residents if we put too much pressure on it now. I don't think that's what the Chamber wants. Again, I'm always willing to work with the NCG to see if we can aim it in such a way that it always goes faster. Well, "always." I mean in by far the majority of cases. I would very much like to do that, but the reversal seems to me to be a recipe for even more disappointment and we do not want to do that to the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u196	Mrs. Beckerman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u197	Mr President, I object to this! The Minister pretends that the one-year deadline is a choice of residents, but that is not the case. There's no one here who says, "We don't give residents any more space." No, the law now says: if there is an assessment, something people wait years, years, years for, then the performer may take another year and possibly even more. The Minister may say that "over a year's walk is the exception," but the supervisor says that that one year's term is too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u198	Yeah, but that's why it says, of course, no more than a year. I also say that we must, of course, try to ensure that it is shorter than that year. If it can be much shorter, it is much better. But we're talking about execution. We have to take that seriously, too. It's gonna take time, too. This must be done with care, and no mistakes must be made there either. That's why it says, "A year." But again, I would like to say to the Chamber that I would like to see with the NCG where we can speed up as much as possible, provided that there is also enough room for residents who do not feel pressured further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u199	At the same time, Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u200	Rounding up. At least that's not up to me. I would like to join Mrs Dik-Faber. What matters is that we change the norm. And I think you'll change that standard if you just say six months with possible outruns for situations longer. Makes you feel different. Now you're telling me it's standard for a year. We don't mean that, we don't want that, that's not the goal, but it's there. I think that's where the trick is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u201	I heard the room right. I'm going to have that conversation with the NCG again, see how we can actually make sure that the standard is much shorter than that year. But I'm asking the Chamber to consider the execution side as well. If there is a penalty for exceeding the deadline, Mr Sienot also asked. There is now no sanction, fine or anything like that foreseen. Once again, however, the aim is to do it much faster. It is, of course, also a process in which all kinds of parties, engineering firms, contractors, including the residents themselves, play a role. Again, I think it is best to just make sure that it is done as quickly as possible in practice. Then Mr Kops asked why there was no automatic positive decision when the deadline had been exceeded. I think firstly because of that complexity; in some situations it is simply necessary. Secondly, however, it also requires customization and consent from the resident. It is therefore not in the interests of the resident if a unilateral strengthening decision were to be taken after that deadline had been exceeded. Again, these really must be the exceptions, not the rule. Is the whole process of strengthening and its governance too complicated, was a question from Mrs Bromet. I have just tried to outline that it is indeed sometimes complicated, but that we should not make it any more complicated. We have opted for the most unambiguous decision-making process possible. We have, of course, seen what the Advisory Section of the Council of State advised, we have seen what came out of the consultations and what civil society organisations said, the municipalities and the province. We have opted for one integral decision for standard, reinforcement and funding. I think that is really a very important step forward so that the NCG can act in close consultation with the owner. That really is a great, strong simplification of the procedure. It gives more certainty to the owners to know what measures need to be taken. We have, I think, with the necessary budget reduced the complexity as it was in any case. Mrs. Beckerman asked why we don't include the right to what we have in the law. We have already talked about firstly the principle of "doing what is necessary for safety" and secondly, ensuring that what needs to be done has as little impact as possible on how people live in their homes. But we also have to be honest: strengthening is not always good for the people who live in such a house. But I still think I can share the intention behind what Mrs Beckerman is suggesting. The bill also includes that the Minister of BZK can set frameworks, and within these frameworks efforts are made to give residents back what they had. I think that's what Mrs. Beckerman means. I'm attached to that, too. So, for example, when talking to a resident about what his potential is and whether there is an alternative to structural strengthening, which has a really nasty effect on the home, for example demolition/new construction, that owner should also know that in demolition/new construction he is entitled to a comparable new building, which meets those standards, with the same level and functionality and that kind of thing. So there's definitely provision for you to have that conversation and give the owner that choice. Then I come to the question of the multiannual reinforcement plan. I have indeed said that this is coming in the second quarter. That planning's still in place. Has the permit been simplified yet? That was also an important question. We have indeed talked about this before. We have now agreed that the NCG can act as a coordinating body for provincial permits. It's already happening. That coordination by the NCG therefore actually promotes the joint preparation of the licence by all other relevant administrative bodies, municipalities and provinces. It'll speed up the process. Then there is only one decision, instead of several in different places, and then the execution can be started faster. The point of the execution test I had had. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to go to the administrative arrangements now. Then I come to the other questions. I think I have already said a few things about the relationship between the administrative arrangements and the legislative proposal. So I'm not going to repeat that. I wanted to say a few words about an issue that's going on around the tenants. My letter to the Chamber said that the tenants of category a, to stay in the jargon, received a letter from their corporation. I really have to correct that, because that suggests that all the tenants from their corporation have received a letter. That's not true. The situation is that the housing corporations are, of course, the owners of the housing...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So the housing corporations got that letter. Subsequently, some housing corporations also informed their tenants by letter, but not all of them. This means that some tenants have been informed by a letter and others have been able to learn about that information, but only on the website of their corporation. So I think it is important to underline here that correction to the letter I sent to the Chamber. The question of how the inhabitants are informed had already been raised by Mrs Mulder in the event of an interruption. Mrs Mulder also asked a question about data management. That was about those addresses. How does that work? There are indeed some problems there. That actually started when transferring the data from the Centre Safe Living to the NCG. The NCG has put a lot of work into that and really updated all that. That can now be seen in the dashboard. Data management in general is part of those administrative arrangements. The region and the NCG have agreed to carry out unambiguous data management so that no noise can occur. So it's the NCG that keeps track of the central database. In parallel, a new system is being built in which the data can be further enriched with relevant information. The list of addresses behind the various blocks, of which we have just had block a, is established jointly in consultation between the municipalities, the government and the NCG. This ultimately leads to lists of addresses that are recognised and recognised by all parties. It is also important that the NCG, as well as the local reinforcement points that the NCG has, continue to work closely with municipalities to secure the connection continuously and to ensure that it is always up-to-date. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the reviews had already started. We have already said that the residents were informed at the beginning of this year. The review will be carried out on the basis of a typology approach. As soon as that typology approach is applicable, the owners of the NCG will be offered a proposal to re-evaluate their home. I understand that it is now intended that the implementation of the method, which has been started but where the last checks are carried out, will be fully rolled out in April and can be applied. Then I come to the question of whether someone should always come on the floor. I think it's often very good that someone comes over the floor. Thus, even in the case of typology, it is indeed intended that there should be an on-the-spot recording. That is actually part of the standard procedure, so that it also looks at the state of the specific home. It is also always possible that I should have just said that a resident counselor on behalf of the NCG is assigned to the resident. That is one of the ways residents are supported in making their choice. In addition, in order to ensure that residents have an equivalent position, independent support is being developed for residents of buildings that are being strengthened. This can help residents make choices in the strengthening process, so that they can get advice on the precise choices and possibilities in their situation. This is independent support in addition to the support provided by the NCG. This was one of the ideas of the civil society organisations. Mrs De Vries had a question about the high-risk buildings and the typology. I have just said that we are now finalising the typology so that it can be applied from April onwards. That doesn't have a direct impact on the planning. The order of the assessment shall be determined by the municipality. The SodM checks whether the high risk buildings are the top priority, so there is control over them. The municipality determines the order. The NCG determines whether a building with typology or not, in other words, should be assessed individually. Typology works faster, so it may be that the assessments of the buildings with typology have been completed faster. Mr President, I have some final questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u202	But I see Mrs De Vries standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u203	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u204	I think she has a question on this part. Go ahead, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u205	It's about the procedures. I have to say quite frankly that I have spent quite a lot of time on this in my story, with quite a lot of questions. Now I have the idea that it will be done with: yes, the NCG already does; it's okay. In my opinion, in the previous debate we had, the Minister promised that she would make concrete agreements with municipalities and the province. I mentioned the example of a year and a half waiting for a provincial licence. I mentioned the example of the Nb licence, whether it is a problem or not. I just want to be clear about that. I'm not going with a little "yes, the NCG already has it in its fingers" and then being buried again under all kinds of problems. I really think that's too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u206	I understand. Mrs De Vries made this point earlier. I supported her in that back then. If we can speed that up, then of course it will work much better. So I totally agreed with her. I think because I wanted to speed things up, I talked about her questions a little too quickly. In the earthquake area, there is cooperation on permits, monitoring and enforcement through an agreement. The approach is to be clear and speedy in dealing with licence applications from the reinforcement operation, because we want to avoid bottlenecks. These agreements were also made in response to Mrs De Vries' questions in December 2020, which will make those authorisation procedures more flexible than before. The coordination I mentioned is therefore co-ordination by the NCG, so that all the relevant administrative bodies are generally the municipalities and the provinces................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I thought that was Mrs De Vries' approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u207	That's right, but I'd like that on paper, too. I want us to have information on this, because for me it is now a guess which agreements are there. I had another specific question, particularly about the NB legislation, about the bats and two other species. So that can never be an obstacle again. There's an exemption for that. It can never be another obstacle to starting the construction of the reinforcements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u208	I say to Mrs De Vries that I will return to this in writing. Then I shall also turn to that particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u209	That's nice. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u210	Of course, licences still have to be granted, but we have streamlined them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u211	If you're dealing with damage, with reinforcements or maybe both, you're dealing with different agencies. Papers need to be filled in, signatures need to be signed, and decisions need to be made. The Minister just indicated that, in addition to the NCG support, there is also independent support. I'd like to hear more about that. In my contribution, I asked for a legal support team for people, because it is really complicated what choices to make. Is what the Minister has just answered now the legal support team for people that is so badly needed to be able to support them in all these pathways in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u212	Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I will inform the Chamber in writing on this point too. Otherwise, I'm gonna need some time to go a little further. I'm looking at the clock with a slanted eye. If Mrs Dik-Faber agrees with that, then she will also get a little more written down on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u213	A specific explanation of how that legal support team works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u214	It's about independent support, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u215	We have the second term at a later date. So if it does come our way before that date, excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u216	Fine. Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u217	At the same time, Mr. Chairman. Can she also indicate the following in that letter? Now it has been agreed in the governance agreement that you can get that support when choosing to strengthen or not strengthen. Can this be included when drawing up the reinforcement opinion? That was my question in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u218	The answer is that it also applies to this. But I think it is very good to write it out more precisely, so as well as how the NCG organises it itself and how the resident can ensure support for it, for those who want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u219	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u220	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the other questions. I'm gonna go through that a little faster. Mr Kops asked what happened to these acceleration measures. He's not here, but I'm sure he wants an answer anyway. We have already talked about the construction impulse and the construction agreement. I think we've seen some really nice results. Of course, that's still on a relatively small scale, but of course that building impulse worked with how to do that contracting of contractors and how to set up the business office so that you make it a priority that the residents can go there, that they can just have a conversation with someone there. We have that building agreement with those 75 contractors registered in that open building pool. We have the trajectory owner chooses builder. At 40 addresses, it's started now. There are still notifications from contractors who want to do so. The same applies to residents who are interested in organising these work cases through this route, through that route owner chooses builder. That acceleration package also includes the typology approach, which has now received a positive opinion. Another element is this practical approach, where residents have the possibility to have the whole process, from inclusion to execution, carried out by one contractor. This practical approach is carried out by the Business Bureau Bouwimpuls. These are all really important pathways that have produced concrete results for people, but also for the organisation, for the NCG, a lot of lessons that they are using in the implementation of the reinforcement operation in the coming period. There are other examples, but I'll skip them. From the Heft in our own hands we have of course also learned a lot of lessons, namely that it is really important to be in very good contact with owners, with a delegation of owners, to pick up early uncertainties, so that you can really improve that program by discussing experiences and questions of residents with them all the time. In the end, you can do what those residents want. What comes back from the questions asked to the people in that residents contact group is that that intensive contact is very much appreciated by them and that they also consider that very important. The NCG has the experience from that program involved in their other program and also in the communication they are doing with residents. The explanation of the cost methodology, the role and responsibility of construction guidance, the explanation of the lead times and that kind of thing, very concretely, are actually coming from this project. We've already talked about Opwierde, Appingedam, I think. Then there is the capacity for construction and also for young people. That's a well-known point. Mr Van Otterloo just brought that up. I have the capacity problems in the construction industry very strongly on the retina, which is why we have that construction agreement. That gives a lot of space to some smaller and also local companies. By the way, it is fantastic in corona time that it has really succeeded in just working on it. It is true that young people need to be trained for this and they need to be interested in working in construction. That is why we have invested, together with the region, in additional jobs for young people in construction, for example in Delfzijl-Noord. The construction is, of course, wider than just the building you see in front of you. It is also about the energy transition and all kinds of opportunities there. I had already answered the question about monumental buildings. Can residents give their own input about the state of the home at an inspection, Mrs Beckerman asked. The recording of a house is done by a structural inspector. So that is an expert, who is there to carry out that recording objectively and competently with his or her expertise. Of course, the resident can at that time report to the inspector matters concerning the state of the home, so that they can be involved in that inspection. Then Mr Sienot said... uh, no, let me do it last; I actually liked that question. Just a few concrete points. How can the recording be faster and more easily accessible on request was a question from Mrs Mulder. That trajectory started in March last year. 632 applications have been received at that point of contact. At 417 addresses such a recording has taken place or is carried out. There were also addresses where an engineering firm had already prepared a recording advisory report. The owners will receive a decision in the coming weeks. It has indeed been a bit difficult to get started. One of the reasons for this was corona. So that start-up phase was really tough, but I think that more experience has been gained and that it is now progressing better, so that we can better inform the residents and we can indeed speed it up. But I've been reported that there are still limitations due to corona at the recording. This is also understandable from the perspective of the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u221	Mrs Mulder has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u222	There are questions about the whole methodology on the basis of which buildings have been classified as risky. This recording on request might provide more insight into whether we are missing things, whether we have blind spots. Is the Minister prepared to see how this group can be investigated? She now indicates that a number of people are in the group of 26,000. Maybe you could use some kind of sample to see exactly how the HRA model works. There are so many questions about that; perhaps that can clarify things. That would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u223	I do not know whether it could technically work as a kind of sample, but I fully agree with Mrs Mulder that it would be interesting, on the basis of this approach, to know, indeed, on request, whether this type of finding will emerge. So I'd like to take over Mrs. Mulder's suggestion. I'll see how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u224	Can she express in a letter what timelines that would be? Is she going to look again together with civil society organisations at what exactly this research could look like and what we are missing? There is so much discontent about that with us in Groningen that I think it would be good if the Minister took this up with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u225	Yeah, I'm okay with that. I've agreed to an agenda with them anyway. We have, of course, followed up on this matter. I'll just add this to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u226	I do not know whether the Minister's reply is complete. I had another question that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u227	Perhaps Mrs Bromet would like to tell you which question that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u228	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u229	I asked what exactly would happen if this law were not passed. We are now working on the basis of policy rules. We have now heard for an hour what is going to happen and how important that is. Does it require a law or can it be done without a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u230	I am very pleased that Mrs Bromet is also asking me this question. She asked her colleagues to do the same by way of interruption. I admit immediately that you can argue whether the glass is half full or half empty. It's not a perfect law, but I think it's an extremely important step, because the alternative to this law isn't law. And if there is no law, we have no legal basis for charging the NAM, for example. With this law, we offer more legal protection to the Groningers. We provide a clear legal basis for the division of responsibility, which we have just discussed in detail. It provides the legal basis for one integrated reinforcement decision and one central point of contact for the residents. If the question is what goes wrong if this law doesn't come up, that's it. Then there is no legal basis for all these steps. I realize that in the implementation as it is happening... Let us take, for example, that one year period, which has just been discussed, which I would also like us to be able to speed up. I do not rule out that, if we keep our finger on the pulse and evaluate the law in a year or a while, there will still be improvements. I think we should have the flexibility to make these improvements in implementation. But I am really convinced that, if we can take a step forward for the Groningen people now, it is by adopting this law with a number of amendments from the Chamber that will help him to get better. But without the law, nothing happens, and I don't think that's what we want for the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u231	Thank you. You had that nice question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u232	Yes, Mr. Sienot's nice question. Well, that wasn't such a nice question at all. The question was: so many administrative agreements and agreements have been reached; are they not getting in the way of each other? I understand that, because we have the acceleration approach, the construction agreement and the various administrative arrangements that have been made in recent years. But it is different agreements and agreements that all look at different aspects and work towards tackling the strengthening, which at some point has been completely stalled and is now on the move. We're creating a final picture of that. If you put the chords in a row, they'll complement each other and strengthen each other. They were needed at different times, sometimes to gain experience and sometimes to get the regional leaders along, but especially for the inhabitants and security, and to get perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u233	Thank you. Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u234	The minister just said in a subtlety: the reinforcements have been completely stationary. Minister Wiebes really kicked me out and he washed Mrs Beckerman's ears because it was scandalous that we dared to say that. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u235	You came to another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u236	Yes, I came to another point, but I wanted to point out that ministers sometimes recognise years later what the Chamber called earlier. About the law. I can understand why the Secretary of State has to defend a law. That may be so, but is it not a little exaggerated for the Minister to say that nothing will happen if the law is not passed? In recent years... It's taking me far too long. It is said that we are making the legal levy here. That's true, but liability doesn't change, of course. It's not like the NAM doesn't have to pay for the reinforcement or the damage if we don't pass this law. Of course it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u237	What is your specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u238	Isn't that what the Secretary of State recognizes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u239	I didn't think I said it like that. At least I didn't want to say it that way. I have just said: without the law we have fortunately been able to take some steps and we are always working to do it better. But Mrs Bromet asked: what will happen if we do not pass this law? At that time I listed a number of points. Without the law, there will be no such points, because the legal basis for this has been created in this law. The division of responsibility, that one integral strengthening decision, that one contact point, the legal protection and the levy are all in the law. Without the law, there isn't. That's what I meant by my comment. Then let's talk about the stillness. Let us be honest: Mr Wiebes made sure that gas extraction was stopped first. That was a very, very important decision. At the same time, that pause button was inserted at the backup. That, of course, has brought the reinforcement to a halt. As I said earlier, when I first had a debate with your Chamber last year, I found out with the Chamber that eleven houses had been delivered and that the operation had not taken off. At least we've reached that low. That's extremely annoying and frustrating. I have to use heavier words for the people involved. We've been working to get that back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u240	We're all in agreement on that. The Minister acknowledges that the entire reinforcement has come to a halt in recent years. In the last few months, it has been getting back on its feet, but that is something the cabinet has systematically denied to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u241	I wasn't aware that we had denied that. We did say that there were complexities, that we wanted to get the NAM out of the system, that we wanted to make agreements with the region and the municipalities and, again, that we wanted to put the residents at the centre. That's all been steps. That's why we're right where we are. That took time, but at the same time we do not stand still. I hope that with this law we can add a great deal of acceleration to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you. We're going to do a changement. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs to answer the Chamber. I believe this is the first time he has spoken in the Chamber. No? It's not the first time, but it is on this subject, I understand. That's what I meant: on this subject. This is an important subject. It's an important law to address the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u243	Sure. And thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right: it is the first time I have spoken of Groningen here. I admit, honestly, this also gives me some discomfort. Eric Wiebes just left for another reason, so I don't have the experience that the spokesmen here have. I see the enormous involvement. I get it, if you've had years of conversations with the people who have been the victims of everything that's gone wrong here. Of course I have followed it in recent years, but not as intensive. However, I was right in these weeks already tried to do that only digitally to make conversations and go to Groningen. I will also read Mrs Beckerman's book well, but I already recognized a number of things. There were stories from people who said they've been in misery for years, but I'm glad to see that steps have been taken forward when I see other people later in the process of damage. That does not take away any pain from the past, but that gave me hope that, fortunately, some progress can be made. Mr President, I have tried to make a few cubes. First of all, a block about more general questions about the damage file. Then a block of sustainable recovery, then a number of issues about the scope of the law and the duty of care. A word about the process of the AMvBs and finally a block of others. I will try to answer all of this as quickly as possible, and I want to do justice to the important questions raised by Members. Mrs Beckerman began her speech with a very poignant example of someone who was building debts and now waiting again for money. That is what we have the Special Situations Committee for; why can't we? You can understand that I cannot specifically deal with an individual case, but I am aware that something has not gone well with the funding towards the CBS lately. That is now resolved and the CBS will pay out very quickly. That gives me the confidence that this case will also be resolved. So I hope we put that behind us. Mrs De Vries asked about tax consequential damage if you are compensated for damage. That is, of course, inherent in our complex system. That's what we've seen in other files. If you're not careful, then the government gives you something on the one hand and then it works again in all the fees and you name it. In the event of physical damage, the injured party may apply for compensation. For the loss of value and the intangible damage, the IMG is now looking at how to arrange it there. It shouldn't be that you're getting a fee and it's flying out on the other side. Mr Kops asked: shouldn't there be a general pardon for that damage? That would assume that nothing is happening there now, while I tried to tell you that in the introduction too, one of the steps is that we have now put that in public hands, which really has resulted in a huge acceleration. The IMG currently handles the damage of more than 70% of the reports within the six-month target period. I really think that's a decent and quite an achievement. I understand that doesn't take away all the frustration from the past, but we really are more on steam there than in the past. So I guess a general's pardon isn't the right answer. The same goes for the question of whether you should not extend the reservoir control. We just had that arrangement to get that gear in. That gear's here now. Moreover, the disadvantage of this reservoir control was that I could not automatically send the account to the NAM. That has also been a long way to go. You can find all kinds of things, but that is a complexity that goes with something like the reservoir control. I'd rather work on the basis of the law now, because then I can just send the bill to whoever's responsible for it. Mrs De Vries also asked about the future of the process around the leaking dungeons. I believe that this has been discussed many times in this Chamber. The IMG is now working on a method of dealing with that damage. The aim is to publish it at the end of the first quarter. Mrs Mulder asked: what about the agri-team? On 4 February, recently, under the direction of the province, a whole programmed approach was adopted to the problems of agricultural holdings. You often see that all kinds of things come together from outside this file, from nitrogen to succession. We can imagine anything. That approach has just been established this week, and LNV and the province are now working with the agro-expertise team. So I think we're going to work on it now. I think that's good news. Then Mrs Mulder asked: does the Minister recognise signals about non-justice compensation and an attitude of distrust? If you get those signals, I can't contradict them, of course. All signals are always welcome with us, and we also want to take a look at them. My view is that the working methods of the IMG are now in such a way that there is generous compensation and that this is not being looked at cheaply. That's what we laid down in that temporary law. What also makes me somewhat positive is that I see that residents are currently giving the IMG a 7.9 in terms of customer satisfaction. I realise that these are macro figures and that that does not mean that nothing would go wrong individually. But I have the impression that the IMG macro does a really good job and is not automatically too rigid either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u244	It is of course nice that these figures are also there. Compliments to all involved employees at the IMG, who make all this possible. At the same time, I gave an example in my speech of someone who had had a strengthening of his roof, who subsequently caused damage again. It's not gonna be easy to solve. Perhaps I could put this matter to the Minister outside this debate, so that we can find solutions for people like this lady. 'Cause this is just not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u245	No. I couldn't explain this to anyone. That's where systems work side by side. Let's make a deal that we'll take a look outside this Chamber at that individual case, and let's also see what we can learn from it. A reinforcement of the roof and then your house breaks down; that can't be the intention. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union asked: "What can you say about the coincidence between damage and strengthening and the numbers? We are getting a lot of signals and it seems to be bigger than you say." Mr Ollongren also referred to me. What I know about our numbers is this. Last year, the IMG and the NCG mapped out where the overlap is. At 70% of the 26,000 addresses where reinforcements occur, there is no damage report at the IMG. For the 30% that remains, the damage has already been dealt with in many cases, so before the reinforcement has started or can begin. But of course, those cases do exist. You say, "Why do I hear them so pregnant?" My theory would be that those are exactly the nasty and poignant stories. Even though there are... Let me not put a number on it for a moment, but those are also the stories that linger, I think. But at least these are the figures I know. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of sustainable recovery. First of all, the CDA asked: do we know how often there is repeated damage? I don't have that right now, but I'd like to ask the IMG to just map that out. But much more important is the plea of several Members, which has already been put down in an amendment by Mrs Mulder, about that crazy situation where you are repairing the damage, but there are other weaknesses in the house that are not caused by gas extraction and are therefore outside our systems. It's just complicated to explain. From the system it is understandable that you do not solve it, but on an individual level it is of course crazy. 'Cause you're gonna fix a wall with the big risk that it's gonna have to be fixed soon. I have to say that this was something I found very complicated to explain when I met with this file. There's another side to it that makes it complicated. Because something like foundation problems, of course, really plays in almost the whole of the Netherlands. So if you'd like to do something here, you'd have to frame it a little bit. I have the impression that the amendment is correct, but we are going to respond in writing to it, which Mrs Mulder has now laid down with others. I'm going to put that right in the apprehension. My feeling, my aftertaste at least, is that we are pulling the same end of the rope here. You always have to look at this a little cruivefianish. You have to be able to say: this just makes sense. If it's not, we have to do everything we can to fix it. That leads to the question, which Mrs Mulder also asked, whether we can declare it to the NAM. It's very complicated. That is part of the essence of this problem. I can send the bill to the NAM if it has a demonstrable relationship with gas extraction. The problem here is that one part does not have that relationship. So if we're gonna do this, I think we're gonna have to finance it with public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u246	That will be legally correct, but morally wrong of course. You prevent problems for people in the future, because you're going to solve it so that that damage doesn't come back again and again, but then the NAM says: bye, that's not up to me, because formal and leafibla. You can't explain this, can you? The NAM doesn't really want to explain that to you as a minister, does it? I say that through you, Madam President. This is crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u247	You are now asking me what the NAM would say to me. I can't say. I understand what you're saying. I'm just saying, understand what I can do. That ultimately amounts to what legal title I have. As a minister, I have to relate to that. That's what we saw with the reservoir control. I have also read comments on this, but I have nothing enforceable in my hands. I wouldn't have that here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u248	Then I hope that the people of the NAM, Shell, Exxon and everyone who is responsible for this will listen carefully to the House of Representatives, that they will simply pay this bill to the inhabitants of the Netherlands and specifically of Groningen and that they will not take the rest of the Netherlands. 'Cause this is really crazy. I'm making a moral appeal on these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u249	This isn't addressed to me, but I get it. People are listening, maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mrs. Beckerman, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u251	Well, no, sorry. This is the heart of the matter. This is why this whole messy system has been rigged up, why you have damage that is often just cosmetic, but people have been struggling for years to recover foundation damage. And then we have that route of reinforcement that, as the Minister just admitted, hasn't been running for years. The essence of it is that we have this whole wretched trajectory that crushes people, because the NAM doesn't want to pay. That's what's being exposed right now. Everything that is in between and what is necessary to prevent the repetitive action of damage, which is still necessary in the coming years, the NAM does not want to pay. This becomes clear between the nose and the lips. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u252	No. Just two things. One. I want to solve this problem. I recognise this issue and I want to resolve it. On the question of whether you can say in advance that the NAM is going to pay for this, I'm just saying: that seems complicated to me, because legally I don't have a title for that. That is the answer to the question that Mrs Mulder asked me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u254	However, I do think that I should make that choice, because it is ultimately in the interests of those residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u255	It's now 6:55 p.m. and at 7:00 p.m. we have to stop. I am fully aware of that, Mr President. But this is the essence. Because the problem is that the earthquakes and the decline in the bottom are continuing to occur, because it is not just about the earthquakes that are causing mining damage. What we're doing now is smashing residents who get damage over and over again. The only thing that works is to make the house better for that. The Minister now says: yes, but to strengthen preventively or prevent the damage from happening again, the NAM does not want to pay. That's the point. And the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u257	No, Mr. Chairman, I really want to get on with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u258	I understand that, but I give the floor to the Minister, because you asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u259	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u260	I'll give the Minister the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u261	Let me get this straight. I don't have a legal title to force the NAM to do that. That's what I'm saying. But I do want to do it. Because I want to solve that problem. That's my priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u262	Thank you. Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u263	A moral appeal to the NAM is nice, but in recent years we have seen time and again that the NAM was compensated while residents had to wait. Is the cabinet prepared to fight that for once? I understand that we are under pressure of time, but I would ask the Minister to go into this in detail in writing so that we can continue to do so in greater detail in the second period. Is the Minister prepared to fight that battle now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u264	Then let me come back to that. I always want to look at everything, but for me it's the first thing I want to do is solve this problem. I have spoken a lot with Mr Kortmann about this and I find it difficult to explain. I think Mrs Mulder has found a mode in her amendment to do it in such a way that it is also sensible and manageable. Behind that lies the discussion about who has to pay for it. I do not think it should stand in the way of its implementation. It is only in advance that I say that the situation is so now that I shall return with all my love in writing to it that I do not have a title. That's the reality I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u265	The question is whether this legal title is not there, because we have reversed the burden of proof, so the NAM will have to prove that it is not from the earthquakes. In any case, I would ask the Minister to leave the account with the NAM and to enter into the discussion with the NAM, even if that legal title is not available. This is specifically about the foundation and I do not think there is a title for it. I can't imagine the NAM saying, "I'm going to compensate ten times for a crack in a wall, which might cost a lot more, over a fundamental solution that can't create those cracks anymore."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u266	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u267	That conversation with the NAM must also be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u268	I always like to have that conversation. I meant this as a warning from "Watch out, I won't do everything automatically." Of course I'm gonna have that conversation. I will also take a very good legal look at what the Chamber is asking for in order to follow up the debate shortly. Well, at least it says I want to solve it for the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u269	I'd like to ask you about this. We would never have stood here if the NAM had done his job properly. They were responsible for the damage and responsible for the reinforcement. They screwed up the whole thing. People went crazy and we took over the audience. And now the NAM doesn't pay part of the bills, not the foundations, not the reservoir that was there at the time. That's pretty crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u270	It's gonna be a bit of a repeat. I can force what I can. All applicable laws and regulations are at my disposal. During the reservoir control, you saw that there was a hard struggle for an agreement. I know you're not satisfied with that. There is, however, nothing enforceable. That's the fact I have to relate to. And then you have to fight, and that's what's really done from the Ministry at that reservoir scheme, and that's the reality that I have to go into.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u271	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u272	I also experienced this in the banking crisis and then we just came up with a tax. If banks don't want to pay, we can just come up with a Shell-and-Exxon tax or an oil tax to pay some of the costs. It is now the case that the oil companies have caused damage and that the taxpayer pays for a large part of the costs. I'll ask the Minister what he's up against. In my view, it is a sensible plan to set the bill for those who caused it: the oil companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u273	In order to introduce a special tax here in a minute, I find it a little complicated. I've just indicated how it went with the reservoir control. You might also choose to change the law, but it's just a question of whether you're better off with that and if you're not doing much longer. You are also going against existing legal frameworks, and that is very complicated. I understand the inconvenience that people feel, but I have to relate to it and at the same time ensure that in practice the problems of the inhabitants of Groningen are solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u274	Thank you. Of course, you have more questions to answer, but we agreed to continue until 7 p.m. Are there any questions you say you can answer in five minutes? And can you do the rest in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u275	Yeah, how are you gonna select honestly? Let's see. The D66 folder. Those are always nice questions, I just heard. Some questions may be a little shorter, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u276	Or perhaps you'd rather answer it in writing, so you can take it easy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u277	I now feel like I'm going to make a selection on very strange grounds, to be honest. Whatever the room wants. I can do a few things quickly now, but I feel like I'm wronging questions. In my opinion, without prejudice to all the other points, this was the point we were just discussing, that of Mrs Mulder, the biggest point on this dossier. We talked about that. I'll be back with the legal analysis. I would like to say that we are pulling the same end of the rope there. Of course, we have to take care of it in the system at the back, but I want to be able to explain it, especially when you're standing there at a house. I can't do that in the current situation and then it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u278	Thank you. I think it is important that we stick to the rule we agreed to, namely to stop at 7 p.m. That's what we're gonna do. The Cabinet is prepared to answer all questions of the Chamber in writing. Then we have February 24th in the morning we hear exactly what time exactly the second term of the Chamber and the second term of the Cabinet. I would like to say straight away that you can be spiritually prepared to do so, and that there is also time pressure at that time. It's the day we're also having the Corona debate. But it is important that you receive good written answers and then finish the debate. Then we'll have a proper legal treatment. We are going to vote on amendments the following day, which you can still refine and which can be appreciated by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u279	Yeah, we're gonna answer that in writing. We'll do our best to make sure that response is clip-and-ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u280	Fantastic. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the kindness of it to conclude this way. We shall suspend the debate until 24 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u281	That concludes the meeting. Thank you. Everyone safe at home and see you tomorrow.
