ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the profile for the office of President of the House of Representatives. This debate shall be held between Members within one time limit. Any motions proposing a precise modification of the profile should be submitted in the first period. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On this happy day, I congratulate all the new Members, as well as those who have given a new mandate. It's not nothing either, having a mandate from the people to set things up here, to control and adjust them if necessary. We've seen the design profile sketch. Thank you very much for that. And we've seen the election results. We have a Chamber with many new groups. That means giving room to these new groups. We must stand in the Chamber for the opportunity, including for new groups, small groups, to do their job. We will have to debate with each other how to shape that. But it also means that sometimes we have to realize in the Chamber that the Chamber is not an extension of the government. "Dualism" is what it's called. At the same time, there are sometimes legislative proposals that need to be dealt with very quickly. That sometimes leads to carelessness. That's a lot in the news. Sometimes a very long legal process also leads to a careless law, I just want to say for reflection. But nevertheless, we all know what we're talking about. That is why we have considered it necessary to supplement the good profile that is already there. I say 'we', because together with Mr Jetten we have taken the initiative to approach other numbers 2 and 3 of the lists that have been re-elected here. This has led us to take the initiative together to propose the next addition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The Court requests the "Design of a profile" (35777, document No. 2) extend "knowledge and skills" to include the following tasks:]] [[promote dualism between the government and the House of Representatives, and consider the possibility of carefully and thoroughly examining legislative proposals now that the Chamber is composed of more political groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Jetten, Mr Hermans, Mr Agema, Mr Kuik, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Nijboer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Schouten, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35777-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to Mrs Leijten for the initiative to table this motion. We are setting out the profile for the President of the Chamber, and this gives the President of the Chamber even more the task of promoting dualism between the Chamber and the Cabinet, as well as improving the quality of the legislative process in this House. But I would also like to say to myself and to all the other Members of Parliament: we cannot only look at the President of the Chamber when it comes to guarding that, but we will also have to do so together. There will be times when Cabinets try to rush through this Chamber with urgent legislation or in other ways at a rapid pace. Then we must work together to ensure that there is an orderly process so that all parties, including small groups, can participate in it in a proper way so that we can carry out this control and legislative task with each other. Finally, Mr President. Mr Leijten also makes Alexander Pechtold very happy, because he tabled a similar motion in 2006. Unfortunately, he did not receive sufficient support for that motion at the time. However, I am glad that Mrs Leijten's efforts now almost have the House's support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr President, thank you. Against power, good counterpower must stand, something that concerns my colleague Pieter Omtzigt like no other, as well as the importance that we need to get careful legislation here in this Chamber. If we don't, it'll affect people. That is why we are under Mrs Leijten's and Mr Jetten' motion to keep an eye on the issues of dualism, but also careful legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on your swearing in, too. This applies to all members, in particular those who still have a side office in the cabinet. I wish them much wisdom and strength and a successful formation for all of us. But we must also monitor the cabinet for four years, and this must be done carefully, at a time when political fragmentation in the Chamber is greater than ever. My group wholeheartedly supports the motion tabled and also the profile charts. But I would also like to endorse what Mr Jetten said. It is difficult to make a President responsible for something for which no clear mandate has been given. Someone can accomplish a lot on authority. We have had good Presidents and I am confident that the next President will do so again. But it is up to us as a Chamber to ensure that we give small groups the room and that we pay attention to the importance of careful legislative treatment, for which we must take the time and not let ourselves be fooled. That's what we have to tell each other, including for the next four years. Then I'm sure we'll make it a good, successful period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I'll see if anyone wants to sign up. That is not the case. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	There's been one motion filed. It may be that we are going to vote on this tonight, but otherwise we will do so next time. It was actually a nice debate: short and powerful. You think it's gonna be like this later? Thank you very much. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:45 p.m.
