ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Today only the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	A warm word of welcome to the Minister; thank you for joining us. I hope you're comfortable. Relax; all you have to do today is listen. It's simpler than simple for you. But the Chamber is excited. Let me mention the Party for Animals, 64 minutes. They get rid of it this year with a quickie, because it has been more, but well, in der Beschränkung... It must all be possible! Mrs Van der Plas will speak to us for 23 minutes. In short, we're gonna sit down for it today. We're gonna take our time. We will be the first to listen to Mr Graus of the Party for Freedom Group. Can we, today, in this first term of the Chamber, limit ourselves to six interruptions together, so six questions, comments or what else are they? Mrs van der Plas agrees with me; I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	I actually wanted to make the proposal on the interruptions to make it eight, because there are a few different opinions and positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	In the Lower House? Different opinions in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	Yeah, definitely on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	It's not gonna be much more fun. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to support Mrs Van der Plas in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	No, you shouldn't. I don't think you should go along with that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	So that's a request, if it's eight. Then we can always ask Members to try to keep it as little as possible, but I personally cannot promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	Can we then shorten your speaking time a little to make up for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	Okay, then eight, but short and pointy. So not whole essays on the interrupt microphone and some kind of third term, but just a sentence, another sentence, another sentence, a question mark, that's it. And also speak through the chairman, otherwise I feel so destroyed. Mr Graus is still updating his text, so it is fresh from the press. I call Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I spent 15 years in the Chamber yesterday, together with you, but speaking time has not improved, I must say. I only have six minutes, so I'm gonna get staccato to finish everything. The most important point I would like to make is, of course, the inclusion of animal rights in the Constitution. That's what I want to do when I'm unskilled. Everything is ready, Mr. Wassenberg and Mrs. Vestering are also working on it, I know that. We'd like to work together on that, too. Maybe Mr. De Groot wants in, too. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, because we also need support from the Ministry and from all Members of Parliament. 'Cause that law just needs to make it. The children and the unskilled have rights but no duties; we can do that. Scientific research is necessary to discover the state of welfare of the animal itself, such as the animal itself. The PVV asked earlier to include the heart-rate-value measurements and the amount of stress and cortisol or dopamine. It's a substance that makes the animal feel content. We want all dieron-friendly training methods banned, all of them. Similarly, dierron-friendly interventions without medical need: end of exercise. What about the implementation of our stable fire prevention plan and the escape routes for animals? Because sensors and sprinklers won't do them any good, they'll choke even faster. They have to be able to run. NVWA veterinarians and the animal welfare team should be accompanied, if necessary, by armed animal police with criminal powers. We must put an end to the intimidation of veterinarians in slaughterhouses. Animal executioners should be given a life-long ban on keeping animals, in addition to heavy prison sentences, an approved Graus and Lilian Helder motion, my fellow Member, huge fines and the payment of veterinary care for ill-treated animals alive, and cremation/exercise costs for deceased animals. All this has to be reported to the animal executioner. Professional animal executioners must be banned from working with animals, of course. Think of the serious abuse in slaughterhouses. Anyone who assaults an animal must never again get an animal in his hands, ever again. For a ban on the unspoiled ritual torture of animals there was already a Second Chamber majority, but the PVV is the only party that wants all (target) animals irreversibly intoxicated to be killed, so before they are cooked, slaughtered, cut or cut open. We have longed for fifteen years for the return of the well-equipped resilient field police in the fight against wild poaching. Here too, a combination of the green boa, the extraordinary detective, with the animal police in many areas is necessary. Brabant's even had to deploy arrest teams against the heavily-armed gangs. I would like a response to that and, of course, everything in consultation with your colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. Animal ambulances should be professionalised and they should also, I think, become priority vehicles in the future. However, this requires a whole training pathway. I also believe that the crew should be paraveted so that they can also administer fast-acting corticosteroids to remove an animal from shock. A lot of animals die on their way to help. And of course there must also be a good training for the crew, the ambulance drivers, just as with the regular ambulance. 144 must be from hotline to control room, with service and intake. 24 fte should be 32. I would very much like to see contact with the Minister for Justice and Security, because I am addressing the keeper of the animals, the keeper of the sheep. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. In order to speed up the detection of animal executioners, illegal traders, bread breeders, as well as perpetrators of bite incidents, a DNA database of animals is needed. I'd like a response. We're done with all the other shit. It'll be okay in one go. We can then detect much more animal executioners and animals that disappear earlier, and animal executioners can be punished better, faster and more severely. Why is the goods in the registration system going well and not with living beings? So we can register a car and protect it better than an animal. That's impossible, isn't it? What about the learning modules recognition, abuse, neglect and other animal suffering for veterinary students, veterinarians and general investigators? The PVV also wants judges to be better taught in relation to animal abuse in addition to prosecutors. The theme session on live property of the North Holland and the East Netherlands parquet should apply to the whole of the Netherlands as in Belgium. And besides vice officers, we also need animal officers. Can the Minister conclave with the Minister of Justice and Security with these old wishes of the PVV? We ask the government to make the beating of animals equally punishable by kicks. Kicking's already taken care of, but why do you get to hit an animal? Why does the injury need to be proven? If the animal police or anyone else sees it, or if there is a video showing that an animal is being beaten, the killer must be dealt with as hard as when an animal is being kicked. How is the implementation of six Graus motions adopted on accelerated phasing-out of animal testing and reduction of the number of test animals on the road to animal testing-free innovations? Then there's the illegal trade. I asked for more effort from the Netherlands to protect, among others, the lion, the cheetah, the elephant and the rhino. We want a tough approach to trophy hunters and illegal traders, as well as a ban on imports, transit and animal sharing, anything that this minister can do about. As for the cheetah: there is a new big cats task group to be formed. The Netherlands is specifically named as one of the countries that could take part in it. Is the Netherlands prepared to do so and, if not, what are the obstacles? As far as the lion is concerned, what is the status of my motion on the uplifting of the lion from CITES list II to list I for better protection? I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid I have to finish. I do not think that the Animal Welfare spokesmen of the States-General are well aware, except for a few, of what is going on in relation to animal emergency aid. Most of them have never spoken to the animal police and the veterinary forensics team. I think we should do that more. I'd like to get organized if I had to. Then we'll take the minister along, cozy in a covid-free bus and all wearing mouth caps. I would like a response to that. I am also counting on the support of Members of Parliament. Whether you want to believe in evolution or in the creation story, the animals were there before humans. The animalia were there before the homo sapiens erectus. Amen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	Here's to it. There is another question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	The PVV is far from GroenLinks, but we are very often one team in the field of animal welfare and poison. I would like to congratulate Mr Graus on his fifteen-year membership of the House of Representatives, but at the same time I would like to ask him the following. If he is on such an annual budget, like today's, and he mentions all the points he has raised over the past 15 years, does he see any progress or is he ever discouraged by them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	Sometimes that makes me despondent, of course, but you never have to give up, ever. You have to keep fighting forever. I once said in 1986 at the police school in Heerlen: there must be an alarm line for animals. That was 113 at the time. Then it turned 114 and now it's 144. I also said that there should be an animal police and a veterinary forensic team. That team's already here. The animal police are already here. The alarm line's already here. Prison sentences for animal executioners are already there; all thanks to this member and thanks to my party. So we have achieved a lot for animals, but we are far from there. I mentioned all that, too. But a great deal has been achieved in decades. First, as a citizen, I started an animal program on TV Limburg. I've done everything I could, everything, always apart from animal organizations, who have somehow always ignored me. But I have achieved more for animals than all animal organizations put together: one man can make a difference. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're gonna give me that stuffed cake for 15 years of parliamentary membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	No, it's your treat. This is totally messed up, so you're gonna have to buy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, there must be some respect for my seniority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u19	I agree. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u20	I would like to congratulate Mr Graus on his 15th anniversary. During these fifteen years he has also worked for the people who work at NVWA. I didn't actually hear him say that this time, so I'm curious to see how Mr Graus looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the congratulations. That is also what I say to Mrs Bromet and to everyone who does this through non-verbal communication. The NVWA will be the subject of a separate debate. There are very serious problems with the former AID, now the NVWA, which you and I have been bringing forward for at least 11 years. Very serious things have happened at NVWA. With animals, but also with vets. You are very well aware of this, and a few Members of Parliament are also aware of it. We spoke to the whistleblowers. I must say that this minister has also spoken to the whistleblowers. I'd like to praise her for that. She took all the time she needed to talk to a beat-up vet. I've been there myself. It was neatly summoned here; I was there. There's still a long way to go, but do you know what it is, Mr. Great? And that is why I am grateful for this question, I say through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u22	That is why you are grateful to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u23	Yeah, I know. There is a new Inspector General, who is also well-known to you. The new Inspector General has started to put things in order a little bit. Let's put it so neatly. He's already taken steps to make me see and see that he's benevolent. Somehow I trust the best man very much. I don't have that fast. I trust an animal rather than a human, but with him I have that confidence, just as I have always trusted this minister. I don't want to kick a brooding chicken off the nest, but the serious things that you and I know about, I've brought in everywhere. The Minister is aware of this. The Inspector General is aware of this. The whole room is aware of this. If there is ever going to be a parliamentary inquiry, I would remind you of the premium affair, and the IND I think we will see that there is often a one-to-one relationship, including in the NVWA, when it comes to intimidations and the like. There are some rotten apples. I'm gonna say it again, or the minister's gonna get mad at me. I'm not saying... There are some rotten apples and they really need to clear the field. There really has to be the broom through the closet, otherwise we will continue. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u24	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u25	And congratulations to you, too, because you've been in the Chamber as long as I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yeah, but I'm in denial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u27	You were gonna make me a list pusher. I wouldn't have even gotten into the room. It's not your fault I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u28	Your time is up, Mr. Graus. Well, Mr. Mulder, try to get over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u29	Every contribution by Mr Graus is once again unique. Let me put it this way, Mr. Chairman. Everyone here congratulates each other on anniversaries and everything. I'm gonna talk about this minister for four years. That doesn't make you very happy, Mr. Chairman. Four years ago, everyone was very happy with this minister. Farmers and fishermen would finally be given their own ministry and a minister with a heart for farmers and fishermen. The farmers' organisations were also enthusiastic. The Minister said that when she took office, she said: "As Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, I want to offer farmers, growers and fishermen a perspective. And I want to strengthen the international leadership of the agricultural sector and at the same time improve the economic position of our farmers." Improving the economic position... Mr. Chairman. We've been here almost four years. Four terrible years for the peasantry. There is nothing left of this minister's support for farmers and fishermen. Nothing at all. A study in March 2021 showed that even farmers who normally always choose ChristianUnion now go for another party. And that was before it became known that this minister had to figure out how to expropriate farmers as quickly and cheaply as possible. Expropriation. In this Chamber, it seems to be forbidden to use the word "criminal." But I find the "expropriation" of ordinary, hardworking farmers sound much worse and scarier. The hard truth is that this minister is trying to destroy the peasantry. Broken it to solve an invented problem. It cannot be said often enough: there is no nitrogen problem! In the most extreme case, some extra nitrogen causes a different plant growth: still plant growth, still nature, but another. Nowhere in the Natura 2000 sites the soil becomes toxic or unusable by nitrogen. Well, that's not gonna happen. The so-called nitrogen crisis is therefore a paper crisis, a theoretical crisis. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands had 66% more nitrogen emissions 30 years ago. I challenge everyone in this Chamber to tell us what natural disasters have been caused in the Netherlands since 1990 by too much nitrogen. Name one. Anyway... Mr. Chairman. The people in the Netherlands are being fooled. They're being deceived. Read what the Planning Office for the Environment says about this Minister's nitrogen policy. Firstly, they say that even if we achieve all the targets set, so all the targets set for reducing nitrogen emissions, it is still not certain whether anything will change in relation to today's situation, in relation to today's nature. Two. There is no guarantee that the figures and assumptions used are correct. And this is a very nice one. They say: because scientific consensus is always temporary. And to finish: in many areas the critical deposition values are already exceeded by the deposition from abroad. Mr. Chairman. It's really unreal. The figures and assumptions on which this minister bases her entire policy are therefore very debatable. Because, as it is said, scientific consensus is always temporary, so we can just change it all again later. In some areas these critical deposition values are always exceeded. So even if we remove all the farmers, all the animals, all the cars, all the farms and all the people from that area, there is still too much nitrogen according to the targets set. Then it comes from Germany and Belgium. And what is the solution of my colleagues and this minister? Are we going to deport millions of Germans or something? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. We're in a nightmare. However, the facts are clear. Firstly, in the Netherlands air and water have not been so clean in decades. And of the current 110,000 hectares of nitrogen-sensitive nature, 80% is perfectly healthy in the Netherlands. Thirdly, Dutch farmers are the best in the world and have the lowest environmental impact in the world. They're the best in the world. They are not the best in Europe alone, but they are the best in the world. Mr. Chairman. Tough years are coming due to the policies of these ministers. Farmers and fishermen must be destroyed. See this Minister's Seventh Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive, with all the first steps towards expropriation. See its support for the Brussels Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. And see her answer to our questions, which state that there is no lower limit to the agricultural area. We are dealing here with a minister who simply says that agriculture can leave the Netherlands. With the disappearance of farmers and fishermen, another piece of the Netherlands disappears. Solidarity in rural areas, employment, association and living conditions will disappear. And what do you get in return? Solar panels where cows graze now. Windmills that destroy life on and under the water. And we get a lot of people from Africa and the Middle East, people who don't contribute anything positive to our lives, our culture and our prosperity. I wish this minister strength when she looks back on the results of her policy in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Grinwis. Keep it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u31	The contribution could also have been played with a cassette tape here, because we know the string of fellow Mulder. I'm not curious to hear about that whirlwind, but about the answer to the question of how Mr. Mulder, how the PVV, had complied with the 2019 ruling of the judge of the Council of State that the PAS approach on nitrogen did not meet and that nature permits are needed if you want to feed cattle outside and if you want to fertilize?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u32	It's a little easy. This gentleman has also seen a number of other debates and is talking about a string, but I have only been spokesperson on this file for a year. I'm talking about a budget for the first time. So he made something up, and it doesn't make any sense. Let me now turn to judgments of the judge. The judge shouldn't interfere with politics. That's the beginning of a lot of misery in this country. We don't have political discussions anymore, we let the extreme left seize power, and these kinds of crazy things are being devised. It's just theory and on paper. Another good example is your support for biomass. Biomass is worse than anything. Biomass has three times as much emissions as gas and one and a half times as much as coal, but yet you are voting for it. Because on paper, theoretically, biomass has zero emissions. That's when everyone knows the emissions are there. We're gonna pretend there isn't one. A judge's ruling on that doesn't make it true yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u33	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u34	I have one final question, one final point. The fact that Mr Mulder is only a year's spokesperson and that it already sounds like a piece of cake in our ears is something to say. But my point is: what is Mr Mulder's plan to comply with the judge's ruling? He can stand here with the message that it's political and that it's left, but that doesn't mean the judge's ruling is gone. If Mr Mulder were to sit at the minister's place, he would have to comply with that and would not get very far with his feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u35	No, this is total nonsense, because the rules have been imposed on ourselves in the Netherlands. It is at the top of the EU's demands. That is why there is no nitrogen problem in many other European countries, because they simply have different values. And yes, the Christian Union has become very left-wing. It is scandalous that the former farmers' party is now only trying to break up farmers. My colleague was quite right to say that there is still a great deal to be done in the area of animal protection. I want to make sure, together with the PVV, that in four or eight years' time we have to make this kind of contribution about farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u36	I would also like to hear from the PVV and Mr Mulder. Apparently there is no climate problem, apparently there is no nitrogen problem, apparently you can make nature walks on the Veluwe without seeing the oaks die because of the nitrogen problem and apparently the judge cannot say: there is a law and the government has to abide by it. That's why there's another question. Mr Mulder also referred to the Seventh Action Plan for the Nitrates Directive. It's about clean water. There are drinking water companies in the Netherlands that say: that plan must be implemented properly, otherwise we will no longer have clean drinking water in this country. I see Mr Mulder dismissing that seventh action plan as 'yes, that's even more bullying of farmers'. Our drinking water must be clean, but the drinking water companies are concerned that there is too much pollution and that this means that we no longer have safe drinking water. That's what's going on. Does the PVV agree with the Labour Party that we need to ensure clean drinking water and therefore ensure that the pollution goes down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u37	Of course, we need clean drinking water. The water in the Netherlands is cleaner than ever. Only, with these stupid rules again, we are now trying to reach the level of a Swiss mountain stream. That's not possible. Let me make it very clear: the way we farmers in the Netherlands and how we deal with our land and our water is an example for the whole world. In all those retarded cultures the PvdA is so proud of, there are the problems. There they go with a flat fishing boat to the sea, catch three fish and then the whole village dies. And who is she supposed to come and rescue? And who is she supposed to help with food? That's us, in the free West. That is because farmers here handle the available resources in a good way, with respect for nature and for the people. The water is therefore very clean in the Netherlands and there is no problem anywhere. At least there isn't in practice. But that is on paper, because we have to meet certain standards that are set.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u38	So I note that the PVV is throwing away both the climate problem and the nitrogen problem and the judge. And now she's waving away the drinking water companies, who really say that we have something to solve with our groundwater and our surface water, otherwise the safety of our drinking water will be compromised. That's pretty dangerous, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u39	Do you know what's dangerous? If on the one hand you act like you're talking about nature and on the other hand you're plundering millions of people in our overcrowded country. That does what with the land, that does what with nature, that does what with the amount of water, that does what with everything in this country. That's a very dangerous thing to do. Bringing in people who don't contribute anything positive, who just cause a lot of misery and a lot of pollution. It was a lot more convincing if the left were to argue against biomass, against windmills and against those terrible fields full of toxic solar panels. It's hypocritical. That is why our solution is the best one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Van Campen from the VVD group for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u41	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we live in one of the most fertile, densely populated deltas in the world. Our own ancestors have won the land in which we live, work and live, from the water. Thousands of Dutch people earn their living daily on that delta as a farmer in the stable or in the field, as a fisherman on a cutter, as a ranger in the forest or on the heath. Today I am a Member of Parliament for exactly eight months and I am allowed to have the debate on the LNV budget. Even though I grew up in the Achterhoek, I live my whole life in the east and am a big fan of modern country music, that really doesn't make you a specialist in the field of agricultural policy. I have therefore spent as much as possible of the time that I did not have to be in The Hague, in many places in the country, the farmland well understood. Even though I am very grateful to the Minister and to her official organisation for the letters and plans that are shared with us every week, the real lives of people for whom we do it here are not in ministries or in parliament, but in the stable, in the greenhouse, in the field, in that fish coopter and in that forest. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture represents a major transition. The challenges are also great for fisheries. Nevertheless, all those meetings I have had as agricultural spokesperson in recent months give confidence that we are going through this transition, that transition, and that this change is, of course, exciting, but will ultimately make us stronger. It is those meetings that inspire me daily in making choices and making decisions on this portfolio. It's those people I see before me when we talk today about our assignment for the coming year. I will continue to see them before me every day, so that I am constantly aware of the effects of our decisions on everyday practice, on their work, on their lives. Mr. Chairman. This practice of everyday life is being put to a considerable test today. Every day farm families rise up with concerns about the future of their farm. More than 3,300 companies acted in good faith and reported to the province an extension or renovation. They relied on the promise made by the government that they did not need a permit for this and that the government would give them security for the future. Reality turned out to be different. For many farmers, great uncertainty has arisen after the Council of State immediately drew a line on that promise with the PAS-pronunciation. The VVD considers that the government has an obligation to these families to fulfil that obligation and to make their expansion or conversion with retroactive effect legal. This process is slowly starting, but it is still too slow. We would like to hear from the Minister when she sees that all 3,300 farming families have clarity about this. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to gardeners, who are currently holding hands in their hair because of the nitrogen impase. This is a sector that has always been on its best side and has always been flexible with new requirements. Yet this group of entrepreneurs seems to be falling apart. Glastuinbouw Nederland indicates that probably even 75% of gardeners will soon be subject to a licence. Here are companies that were obliged to do so, but which have never been referred to by governments. Subconscious and in good faith. This also means for the VVD here that the responsibility lies on our shoulders to provide their clarity and security. Does the Minister recognise this percentage of growers? And can it indicate how greenhouse horticulture works towards business security? Mr. Chairman. Not only farmers and gardeners are confronted with the nitrogen crisis. The whole country has stopped. We've slowed down. Companies are not authorised to make necessary investments. Weaving and maintenance are in the fridge. And housing projects are on the way, while so many young people are looking for a starter's home. There is a nitrogen and environmental improvement law that is less than a year old, but successive court rulings show that that law is not enough. To get the country back on track, we need to find the balance between agriculture, economy and nature. This requires farmers to think about how their business fits into a particular environment and it calls for a cleaner industry and a cleaner way of driving, so that vulnerable nature can recover and flourish. How we are going to achieve this necessary balance, I will go into more detail in a moment. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is celebrated worldwide for its important agricultural sector. Our flowers, our meat, our vegetables and our dairy products are particularly popular in Europe, but also outside. During a visit to a Frisian company in international cattle transport I spoke to Geert-Jan. He told me that as a driver he drives very far into Russia. Even there, they know us. He told me that sometimes you have some problems with the language, but that they all know one name: Wageningen University. It shows how innovative, creative and entrepreneurial our agricultural sector is when we are known to the most unexpected places in the world. The VVD is proud of that. This strong position of agriculture has a rich history. After Holland had gone through the darkest time in its history, that was World War II, there was a great shortage of food and drink. Under the motto "never more hungry," the Social Democrat Mansholt first established the Dutch and later the European agricultural policy. From the importance of food security, he focused on modernisation, mechanisation, increasing production and increasing the scale of agriculture. That vision has brought us a great deal for a very long time, but we need a translation into this time. We must create, with the same ambition, vision and drive, an agricultural sector that is ready for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u42	A question from Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u43	What we share is our love for modern country music as well as our hometown. Kid Rock is great! But that's where it keeps...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u44	Why don't we talk about that some other time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u45	Well, I thought everyone congratulates each other and talks about personal things...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u46	Why don't you take pictures and stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u47	...so I'm gonna join you. But that is not desirable. I won't do it again, Mr. Chairman. But I was just about to say that's where every connection, I think, ends. The VVD just mentioned that it is good that we drive less and drive less fast, because then nature can bloom again. I'd like to know what nature will bloom again if we drive less fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u48	First of all, I will give Mr Mulder access to my country-spotify playlist. But let me answer his question. That slower driving is, of course, a very distasteful, very annoying, very difficult measure. I agree directly with Mr Mulder that we are not going to get out of the nitrogen bypass with that slower ride. But the fact is: at the time when the Council of State ruled on the Approach Programme, we were in favour of the choice to do something, because important road projects and housing projects were on the way. Let me be very clear: that reduction in the maximum speed is really not the prospect for the future to emerge from the nitrogen crisis. It's gonna take a lot more than that. And that's what we're gonna look for as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u49	I didn't ask if the VVD likes to drive slowly or not. Literally, the VVD said that if we slow down, nature will bloom again in the Netherlands. My question is: what nature will bloom again if we drive slowly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u50	This measure is not enough to eventually get out of the nitrogen bypass. This also means that you cannot say overnight that certain types of nature have been directly helped by this measure. I will come back to this later in my contribution, because there is indeed fragile nature that needs to be taken into account. It was only apparently enough to say to the judge at that time: let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. That was necessary then, but that is not enough for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u51	I note that the whole paragraph in the text is incorrect. So the gentleman knows no nature that will blossom again if we drive slower. That's what I thought. That is why I keep asking: call me a major natural disaster in the Netherlands since 1990 which has been caused by too much nitrogen. It'll always be quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u52	I also said that it is not enough to get out of the nitrogen bypass. We see this every day, because permits are still on the way or are not being issued. At that time it was enough, but it is not enough for the long term to get the Netherlands out of the nitrogen crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u53	Still nice to hear that according to the VVD it was not enough to get out of the nitrogen crisis. We also heard Prime Minister Rutte this year saying that we had solved the nitrogen crisis a little too quickly. I read in the leaked pieces on the train that we've been having a nitrogen crisis for two years. I think we've had it for several decades. At least it's good to hear you say that we need to do something more. But isn't it true that, at the time a little bit of nitrogen space is released, we don't have to spend it again, but first of all we have to come to nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u54	I am afraid that I do not often agree with Mrs Vestering that I should agree with her here. I think that the CDA and the Labour Party, when they amended that Programme Approach Nitrogen in 2009 in the Crisis and Recovery Act, did so with the best of intentions, because they thought that they were also serving nature. We tried the same thing last December... today is 1 December. I believe that the nitrogen law was discussed in this Chamber on 20 December. Even then, the parties thought that would be enough. But it didn't turn out to be enough. I will deal later with how I believe more space can be created so that peace can be restored in agriculture, but also in nature, and the granting of permits can be restarted. We need to get out of talking about those little margins, like we do here in the Chamber. That only leads to tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u55	I note, however, that this reaction is mainly blamed on other parties. I think that is just a way of saying: we would not have wanted it to be that way either. Can Mr Van Campen reflect for a moment on this whole nitrogen crisis, on the PAS, which is not working at all and has never been conceived to protect nature, on the fact that today we are facing a huge biodiversity crisis and housing distress problem, which the VVD has always voted for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u56	Let me correct immediately that I want to shift it to other parties. I think I am referring above all to the fact that parties that have contributed to this over the past 15 to 20 years, which have wanted to do with the best will in the world, by putting people and entrepreneurs in the neck as little as possible. But my party also agreed to that nitrogen bill last year. I think we have all done our best, but this turned out not to be enough. That is why it is now important to come up with an approach that does work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u57	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr. Chairman. I realise that a large part of the agricultural policy is being defined in Brussels, including a number of major challenges for the sector. It is too far-reaching today to go into the European agricultural policy very deeply, but you know my position. The VVD will always review Brussels proposals on two principles. Are proposals feasible for farmers? Does it contribute to the conversion that agriculture stands for? Mr. Chairman. When I think back to the farmers and the farmers I spoke to recently, there was actually no one who refused to think about the change that is coming towards agriculture. Farmers are entrepreneurs. Good entrepreneurs are used to responding to change. Dairy farmer Aleid from Werkhoven, for example. He gives his cows only his own grass, fresh and dried, without artificial additives. Such a good diet balance has a direct effect on, for example, methane and nitrogen emissions. I think that's a form of craftsmanship. Because the balance that works for Aleid does not automatically work for a dairy farmer in Salland or the Brabant Kempen. How do we ensure, I ask the Minister, that regulations do not hinder the experimental space for farmers? How, for example, do we ensure that feed suppliers co-operate on what is good for the animal and our environment without continuing to deliver automatically what they have always provided? In short, the farmer cannot do it alone. Can the Minister tell us how we are going to ensure that parties go further in the chain alongside the farmer and also contribute to that conversion? How do we ensure space in laws and regulations for experiments, such as the Fertile Circle Achterhoek and Liemers programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u59	I don't know if the nitrogen block is over yet, but I was thinking about the following. We have the budget treatment LNV here. We heard the judge's ruling two and a half years ago. Mr Van Campen has made a very good speech about the fact that much more is needed to solve the nitrogen crisis. My question to Mr Van Campen is: what are we going to do next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u60	That's a very good question. Let me say on this point: the future of our country is being discussed at the formation table. So unfortunately, although I would very much like to do so, I cannot say anything about that, because I do not know. I can tell her how, on behalf of the VVD, I look at the problem of how we settle down on the farmyard and how we get to the start of the licensing process. Mrs Bromet can ask me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u61	But we are the House of Representatives and we are here with 150 members. I have had this debate five times in five other budgets and I have always doubted: shall I go home or not? We need to adopt a budget law here and we need a majority in the House of Representatives and the Senate. How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u62	Mrs Bromet is right about the technique of the budget, but we are talking today not only about the budget but also about the ideas for a very important sector and for the Netherlands. Those ideas aren't from today to tomorrow. I'll take it with me in the years to come when I'm standing here as an agricultural spokesperson. If there is agreement on a plan for the Netherlands, then I will have the debate with Mrs Bromet straight away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u63	I want to support Mrs Bromet's anger and frustration. I have also had debates here for weeks, on the housing budget, on the deep housing crisis. We all hear nice talk, but eventually when it comes to voices, there will be no change. Is there really no room for coalition parties to change anything? We're facing so many crises. Then what are we doing here if you really don't want to change anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u64	I hope that Mrs Beckerman will listen carefully to my words and how I look at agriculture, nature and the granting of permits in the Netherlands on behalf of the VVD. I would very much like to put a few sturdy posts together for that, but the reality is that a formation is taking place at the moment. And I would like to have the debate in this Chamber as soon as possible after they are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u65	That's the problem. Eight months ago, we were all re-elected MPs. We can beat poles or put picket posts somewhere and that sounds fantastic, but that doesn't help us at all if we don't make that policy. And we can arrange that today. Why move everything to that formation table when you're chosen? You have an assignment here, not just to tell stories, but to actually make life better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u66	I believe that the cooperation between opposition and coalition in this Parliament will be more important than ever in the coming years, especially on this important major issue. I would also very much like to look for this cooperation with Mrs Beckerman, but I would like to do so from the point of departure of what a majority of this Chamber proposes as ideas for the Netherlands. Let us start from that point of departure which hopefully lies very quickly, because it has indeed been going on for quite some time with each other to have that debate and to seek that cooperation. At least I'm very willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u67	I really don't get it. There's a PBL transfer that shows us how to solve this problem. It costs between 14 and 31 billion. How can we start with this budget in the next year when that amount is not being set aside and we are not really getting to work with each other? Apparently, your reasoning is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u68	No, Mr. Van Campen's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u69	Mr Van Campen's reasoning is indeed correct. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, Mr Van Campen's reasoning is that we still have to wait for a new government. Then I'll go to the other big problem, the climate problem. Agriculture also contributes to this, about a fifth. There's an Urgendavonnis. This also applies in 2022. 25% CO reduction is not achieved. Where are the VVD's plans to make sure we make it? Or can the government just ignore the judge's ruling? And can I do that too? A second point. There's a climate note. It also states that the fact that the cabinet is outgoing does not mean that they do not have to take additional measures. We have a climate law that says: if you don't achieve the goals, you'll need additional measures, including in 2022. So it doesn't matter that the government is a missionary. What's the VVD's plan to make sure we do what's in the Climate Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u70	Today we are talking about the budget of Agriculture, Nature and... Food?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u71	Food quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u72	Food quality, indeed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u73	We need to keep the minister friendly for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u74	The climate is, of course, an incredibly important part of solving the problem of nitrogen. I agree with Mr Thijssen. However, I would suggest that the climate debates and the Urgendavonnissen, in which he was much better introduced than I was, should also be discussed with the right rulers. I do agree with him that, in the transition and conversion of agriculture, we should not just look at nitrogen anymore. He's quoting that PBL report. That report is also very high with me on the pile at the station. Look not only at nitrogen anymore, but at its width. I have heard Mr Thijssen very well. I feel the same way he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u75	It is true that this minister is not the coordinating minister in the field of climate. It is true that agriculture accounts for almost one fifth of greenhouse emissions in the Netherlands. And it is true that this Minister must also ensure that the Urgendavonnis is complied with and that we comply with the Climate Law. So I would like to ask the question: what should this minister do according to the VVD in 2022, so that we reach the Urgenda goals and comply with the Climate Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u76	I said what I said about that. I do not think that the nitrogen crisis should be seen so closely. We need to look at them in the broadest possible way, and we also need to look at how we can solve the climate problem. We need to find solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u77	I would like to come back to what Mr Van Campen just said to my colleague, Mr Beckerman, about the fact that cooperation with the House of Representatives will become more important than ever in the coming years. All kinds of fine words have been said about this by the leader of the VVD, Mr Rutte, such as a new administrative culture. But what do we buy for that? You're gonna sit in a back room and make a deal, and then we can talk about it. This, here and now, is the time to change something. Take responsibility! I really can't reach it. You did not want to sit at the table with GroenLinks and the PvdA to talk about the content, but if an agreement is reached later, we may... Well, I don't know what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u78	I think that the goal is to look with those four parties at how we see the future for the Netherlands, as we are doing now. It is a good parliamentary custom in this country to build coalitions. It concerns four parties that really think differently about certain things, so sometimes you have to have the right conversation about that. That's happening right now. And when the result is on the table, I would very much like to have the debate on this with Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u79	That conversation's been going on for so long, but it's not gonna get us anywhere. We're still violating nature-quality targets. We keep breaking the law. We're still empty-handed. So I really want to ask the VVD: if you are supposedly reaching out to the left-wing opposition by saying that you really want to work together, why are we not seeing it again? Why does the VVD say if we are not here in the plenary room: "You know what? As LNV's committee, let's only meet once a year, during the LNV budget. And I don't care what you have to say for the rest of the year. After all, we are a coalition and we decide for ourselves." Why do you say you don't think these committee debates are important? As far as I am concerned, this is not a testament to the attitude of the VVD to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u80	I am very much looking forward to many more contacts and debates with Mrs Vestering in the Committee on Agriculture. They are going to happen in the coming years. I think it will help if there is a missionary government, with a plan for the Netherlands, so that we can have the debate on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u81	It is clear, and I hope that will finally get through to the VVD: no matter how left-wing it is, it is never enough for that part of the Chamber. You're talking about changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u82	Mr Van Campen talks about changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u83	Yes, that's what I'm saying, Mr. Chairman. Through the chairman I say that, damn it. It's not about change anymore, I tell my colleague. The policy is based on reducing the number of farmers. Also the planning agency for viability says: all that talk about new earning models; don't give them false hope, they have to leave. That's the story. If you know that Dutch farmers are the best in the world, in the area of the environment, in the area of ecological footsteps, in all areas, and if you know that the world population is growing and that food is needed, what do you think will happen if you drive away more farmers together with this minister and they come back to Albania or Romania? Do you think that'll make the world a better place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u84	Then we are indeed shifting the problem, and that cannot be the intention. Let me be very clear: reducing the number of farmers or reducing livestock should never be the key to getting out of this problem. I fully agree with Mr Mulder. But on which I also agree with the PVV, I believe that Mr Graus tabled a very nice motion in 2020; the Minister wrote to us last week about this is the search for a fair income model for middle-sized farms or small family farms. Mr Graus added in his motion that there would be a reduction in intensive livestock farming. I think the VVD thinks that there will and will be places in the Netherlands where that is still possible. So, no, we shouldn't shift problems. I agree with Mr Mulder. But in that changeover, I think the PVV and the VVD can go a long way together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u85	Improving animal friendliness is a completely different story; then you insist that farmers should deal with it better. But those buttons, which you say are not being turned on, are being turned on, I say to my colleague. I don't know where he's been for the last eight months, but all that's going on is to make farmers and fishermen disappear. That may sound harsh, but it's damn right! Do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u86	That motion was really about improving the earning capacity of farmers and strengthening their position in the chain. It really wasn't just about animal welfare. I also hope to hear good ideas from the PVV to find a good solution for our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u87	It is to be appreciated by colleagues that they are trying to resolve the climate crisis in the context of the LNV budget this year. I respect those efforts and also the efforts to resolve the nitrogen crisis. But perhaps it is also a little too much in the context of budgetary treatment. I would actually like to decorate it more practically. I have heard with great interest and appreciation the statement of the VVD Congress that instead of the large budget for buy-back, we need to increase the budget for innovation and reduction. Now we have tabled a modest amendment to that effect. Is that the line which the Socialist Group can support in the context of the budget debate? Can we work towards strengthening the position of small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector? They must be sustainable and innovative. Can we support them in this way, in order to ensure food safety and security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u88	I shall come back to that in the course of my speech. I hope Mr Bishop will allow me to keep that story. Then I will find out whether he might have a follow-up comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u89	Yes. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u90	Mr. Chairman. For the farmer, his animal is the engine of his farm. He earns his bread with very narrow profit margins on milk, eggs or meat. Most dairy farmers indicate that they are not married to a certain number of animals in the stable. The problem is that the entire business model was built around that number of animals in the stable. Think of the payment of the milking robot, the loan on the stable, the arrangements with the milk and meat factory. When the farmer comes to the bank and asks for a loan because he wants to make his stable more sustainable, he is told that he only gets that funding when he expands his livestock. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Banks and companies that continue to process the products also have a responsibility in terms of the VVD. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. I have already spoken with Mr Bisschop about this: improving the sustainability and improvement of stable systems can make an important contribution to the prospects for agriculture as far as the VVD is concerned. Ten minutes from my parental home I looked in Velswijk in the stable of farmer Jan-Willem. In his stable, he uses a very simple but clever technique that separates thick and thin fraction, poop and pee. I didn't bring up my group. Anyway, Jan-Willem separates it directly under the tail of the cow when she makes her need. We know that this causes significantly less ammonia and nitrogen. I saw the same example with farmer Ad, who uses a high-quality technique in Bleskensgraaf with his 190 cows that separates urine and stool and converts it into organic manure. What a nerve to run ahead like that! The VVD sees opportunities in these innovations, but wants the farmer to have legal certainty, so that when he makes those investments he is not subsequently challenged by legal procedures. This is what we saw when the Central Netherlands court destroyed 17 agricultural holdings and a slaughterhouse in Utrecht. It cannot be explained that farmers have made large investments in their stables, acted in good faith in accordance with the rules which the government has imposed on them and are then brought back to uncertainty by a court ruling. Then this is also the government's move. Can the Minister explain how she is going to improve legal certainty and the legal guarantee of the ammonia and livestock regime so that farmers are no longer faced with such surprises? Only in this way will all these beautiful innovations be able to make a real contribution to the conversion of agriculture. Mr. Chairman. Most farms have often been in the hands of farming families for generations. I still speak tough and courageous young farmers and farmers who want to take over their parents' business, but that is no longer a matter of course for everyone. The barn is locked forever by 3% to 5% of farmers every year. Whether it's because of the lack of a successor, because of financial need or because of tight laws and regulations, it's always a deep, emotional and heavy consideration for farmers. Last Friday I stood on such a deserted farmyard in Delden. I must say that it was best impressed: the extinct stables, the wiped-up yard and the icy silence that just doesn't belong to a farm. The VVD is concerned about the consequences of these quitting farmers. How do we keep our country habitable? How do we prevent depravity of the rural area? How does the Minister view these concerns? How can we prevent the countryside from falling prey to neglect? The farmyard in Delden I talked about was part of the beautiful Twente estate Twickel. Here they make the need a virtue and use the land released for further intensification: making agriculture more sustainable in that area. Rentmaster Egbert Jaap suggested that I draw attention to the possibilities in the so-called Natural Law. It offers tax advantages in order to make it easier to maintain estates, which have long ceased to be owned by one wealthy family. The good thing is that, if not by definition, the land released will be owned by an organisation that manages the site, but that local or regional communities, together with farmers in the area, will be able to take responsibility for the maintenance of the rural area. How's the minister looking at this? It's not just ruining the countryside that's an assassin. As has been said, farmers and fishermen do not always have it wide. Non-safe criminals are all too happy to take advantage of this, with the result that serious drug criminals can establish their drug lab in empty barns or become fishermen a toy in the drug trade. In the General Political Reviews, money is reserved for extra monitoring in the countryside. The VVD continues to follow critically whether this is being used correctly. I'd like a vision from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. In order to restore peace in agriculture and to re-launch licensing, we need to work on the broad balance between agriculture, the economy and nature. Because nature could use a little support right now. Together with forest ranger André I went on the Veluwezoom, to see for myself how our nature stands at the moment. On Monday morning we went on the road with old sneakers and a thick coat. André took me over the heath, which from August to October should be so beautifully purple in bloom. He showed on brought cards how heavily the heath has declined over the past decades. And indeed, indeed, I could see with my own eyes, under my feet, how vulnerable heath in the field was oppressed by the so-called pipe straw. That's grass that thrives on a lot of nitrogen. It is true that the country is currently locked because of the nitrogen pronunciation. It is only behind that, of course, that binding agreements are being made in the context of nature conservation in our country. We're gonna have to pull a leg with that. Only sometimes it seems that those who advocate the improvement of nature are automatically opposed to agriculture. Or the other way around, of course. The VVD just doesn't believe in that. Boer Hans uses his Jersey cows on the edge of that Veluwzoom, where he milks his cows but also earns an income with nature management. The VVD believes in this approach in which agriculture and nature can strengthen each other, and which differs in every area in the Netherlands. As the extensive farm of farmer Hans fits in the vicinity of the vulnerable Veluwe, common, more intensive farms fit back in other parts of the country. Mr. Chairman. Not only on land, the future is being considered, but also at sea, the challenges are also great. With increasing wind farms, the North Sea Agreement and the Brexit, fishing is currently struggling. In addition to the ban on pulse fishing and the established landing obligation, the fishing sector has suffered a severe blow from the lockdowns. Closed restaurants lead to a significant reduction in the decline of more luxurious fish species. In addition to these uncertainties, the challenge for the sector is to make it more sustainable. Shrimps are required to apply for a nature permit by 2023, but they already know that they do not get it without investing tons in a new cutter. There's just no money for them in these times. How's the minister looking at this? Because fishing, like agriculture, is not just an economic sector. It is a sector with which culture, identity and history are connected. Fishing has already conquered high waves in history. The VVD wants the cabinet to work on new fishing techniques, close cooperation with the UK, with firm agreements on a level playing field to prevent unfair competition for our entrepreneurs. How is the Minister going to ensure that, in addition to the increase in wind at sea, there is also a perspective for fishermen to continue their work? Mr President, I will conclude. In times of food scarcity, Mansholt set up an agricultural sector that was ready for the future. We as consumers have all benefited from these low prices in the supermarket, at the butcher's and at the cheese farmer's. It is now up to us to balance agriculture and horticulture, fisheries and nature with that same ambition, vision and drive, so that peace and perspective can be created, farmers, gardeners and fishermen can earn a good living in the coming decades and we can continue to enjoy tasty, fresh food from Dutch soil and the beautiful nature that our country is rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u91	Thank you. There is a single question for you. Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u92	Mr President, perhaps we can conclude the first question now. I had hoped for some clearer statements on the point I raised. This is about the budgets available for buy-back, or innovation and reduction, and so on. There is a specific amendment from us. How's the VVD in there? Is the VVD prepared to support the sustainability of the sector in this way as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u93	I must give Mr Bishop the uncomfortable answer I have just given to Mrs Bromet and Mrs Beckerman. For I have read his amendment and I think that the purpose of his amendment is going to help us get out of that nitrogen bypass, to get some rest on the farmyard. But by doing what Mr Bishop's amendment proposes, we are taking it away from the jar that may have helped stopping farmers again, people who have no successor to the farmyard or who are at the end of their career. I think we should do both. In the idea of the VVD it fits by area and you have to look at what is needed, this includes innovation, but also giving space to help farmers with a good arrangement to stop when they do so. That is also the purpose of the regulation. That is where we will have to work together over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u94	Of course, that's a big task in the coming years. I would just like to point out that it is not either or, not even in that amendment, but that there is a slight shift, a limited shift in the whole budget, which will enable you to achieve greater effects in the sector in the short term. So the contradiction 'it is going to cost' is not there; I would ask Mr Van Campen to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u95	Again, I support the goal. With the cure, it's a little more difficult. But I would like to say to Mr Bishop that I am going to listen to the Minister's good answer, but I will also take a closer look at that amendment myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u96	You have that commitment, Mr. Bishop. Mr Wassenberg. Oh, Mrs. Van der Plas, that's fine with me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u97	Well, look, very nice words. I know Mr Van Campen as someone who is genuinely involved in the agricultural sector. Although he is only a short while away in the Chamber, I am impressed by that, I must honestly say. They are very nice words, but the VVD can simply put them in a coalition agreement. I wonder what the VVD's bet is. What's in the coalition agreement? Is Mr. Van Campen going to lie down hard before expropriation? What guarantees can Mr Van Campen give farmers and fishermen for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u98	I said earlier that I would find it incomprehensible if a government were to drive up the farmers' inheritance with the expropriation papers in its hand and give the farmer the consideration to sign on the cross. As a government, you don't deal with entrepreneurs and people. I believe that we should move towards an agricultural sector in which there is a farmer's inheritance, but which is in balance and in harmony with the environment; I have also tried to explain this in my contribution. I have experiences from discussions with farmers in which I also hear a lot of perspective. I hear a lot of good ideas from farmers who want to contribute to it, but say: help me; support me in doing so. I cannot, of course, anticipate the coalition agreement, as I have said before, but this is the VVD's vision of providing rest on the farmyard and a perspective for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u99	To sum up, can I say that the VVD does not lie down before expropriation of farmers? So isn't the VVD going to guarantee that farmers aren't expropriated? Or, at least, is that Mr Van Campen's input? You're the agricultural spokesperson, so you're bringing that in, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u100	"Expropriation" is a very heavy word. I've also read the papers in the paper and I've also read the plans. That would give me the creeps as a farmer, really. I really want to give that to Mrs Van der Plas. At the same time, it is an instrument in the toolbox of governments to reach a certain goal. It can also be approached legally in a very sec. A farmer who wants to quit is sometimes better off with such a procedure if the expropriation instrument is chosen. But that does not mean that I think it should be the cabinet's commitment to drive a van into the farmyard with the expropriation papers in the suitcase and to have farmers sign by the cross. As far as I am concerned, that can never be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u101	I have a question about something that is outside Mr Van Campen's contribution. I've been watching the VVD's "Together to Work" election program. Mr Van Campen probably knows it; at least I hope he does. On page 93 there is something about the health and well-being of pet animals, namely: "We maintain the ban on breeding for harmful external characteristics. In addition to the breeding ban, there is also a ban on the trade and import of these animals." So these are animals with sickening appearances. I understood from the Minister that it is not easy to ban a race, for example to ban a race with short snouts. But you could of course see if you can ban certain characteristics, so for example dogs with such flat muzzles that they can't breathe and die prematurely, or nude cats that get all kinds of skin infections. I would like to table a motion on that, if necessary. I will talk about that in my contribution. Is Mr Van Campen prepared to join me in this, so to get to work together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u102	I look forward to the motion, because I believe that the Animal Party has a good point here. It cannot be because of aesthetic beauty points and shows that animal suffering is being done. So I'm gonna take a good look at his motion. We're going to study that motion. We want to work together with Mr Wassenberg for this; you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u103	I have listened very carefully to the argument about balance, peace and also balance with nature. I have the following question. Mr Van Campen went over the EU proposals rather quickly, but that is precisely where there is a lot of peace and balance. An additional advantage is that we from the Netherlands naturally operate missionary in Europe. So we do not have to wait for a government agreement there. My question here is: are we going to argue with the VVD for ambitious and enforceable objectives in the "Fit for 55" package and the revised new green deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u104	We have recently had the debate in this Chamber on the distribution of the resources of the common agricultural policy. We have said of this: we understand the greening of European agricultural subsidies, but do so in a way that allows the farmer to experience it. I have also indicated that I would like to assess proposals from the European Union and the European Commission along this line. There are a lot of concerns about the "Fit for 55" package at the moment. Mr Bishop of the SGP has tabled a fine motion on this subject, with the question: what does this actually mean for farming? We want to study them very carefully first. We want to go to that transition. I tried to tell that in my story, but in a way that you take that farmer and not rule him out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u105	That is a very good plea, to bring people along, but it is precisely in the taking that is also: to provide security in time. It is not as if we in the Netherlands are merely reacting, but rather by means of the outgoing cabinet and also the next cabinet acting. I believe that the VVD can play a major role in this. If we are already going to pursue certain objectives and communicate about them, we are taking people with us better. But then there must be that ambition first. So my first question is, is that ambition there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u106	I have seen in the Farm-to-Fork strategy, the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy of the Commissioner and the European Commission, all these binding percentages on, for example, organic farming. We are going to talk about it and we are going to ask the Minister, but I sincerely wonder if that is the way to do it. I also come to very common farms which are at the same time very nature-inclusive. They may not have that little sticker "organic," but they are very busy with nature including farmers or making the environment more sustainable. I am therefore critical of this, but let us see how we can find a way in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u107	I just heard a lot of crazy things, which really made me frown the eyebrows very high. But I also heard something beautiful, so I'd like to build on that. My colleague Wassenberg from the Animal Party just asked: can we work together on an import ban for sick animals? Your answer to that was yes. My request to you is, of course, that you cooperate with me on an export ban on sick animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u108	This is easy to claim profit, because I didn't quite say that. I have heard that Mr Wassenberg wants to go for it, and he has even studied our electoral programme in order to put an end to the abuses in the breeding of pet animals. I'd like to take a look at that with him. I haven't seen the Animal Party's proposal yet, but that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u109	That's a wonderful answer. If you say 'the Party for Animals has a good point there; let us not import sick animals', will we please stop exporting sick animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u110	I don't think anyone's goal is to import or export sick animals. This is certainly not the case in our election programme Together. I also believe that the NVWA has a very important role to play in this and must approve it so that imports and exports are done properly. Mr De Groot had previously interrupted Mr Graus. To ban exports in advance... I know Mrs Vestering as an active politician, I refer to the Animal Law, but this is going too fast for me. It's too big an impact. In doing so, let us not want to be at home too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u111	I was going to ask Mr Van Campen first, well, not first, because I asked all the VVDs if he could agree to go on a visit with me to the animal police and veterinary forensic team. I've invited the Minister and other MPs. The VVD promised it with every budget treatment, but they never did. I hope that you will be the first and that you will keep the promise. I'd really appreciate that. But I want to talk about the carcass transport. We would like to go to carcass transport. Mrs. Vestering was just talking about the transports. I had it examined: most misery, such as leg fractures, occurs during loading, unloading and transport. There is a great deal of animal misery. It is not for nothing that we have come up with these mobile killing units, which unfortunately are now being abused. And we want to get to carcass transport. We also want to get rid of those miserable animal transports. How's the VVD in there? Can you support possible investigations and can you help us as a major coalition party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u112	I'm gonna find it in a completely different corner. I was visiting a poultry farm and the poultry farmer indicated that they would reduce the number of transports of those animals by delivering the eggs to the farmyard in the stable. That was close to an extra animal transport. This is an example of how innovation exists in the sector itself. Those mobile killing units, to which Mr Graus rightly refers, are such an example. Of course, we always look closely at the possibilities that exist for this. The NVWA must be a supervisor who maintains abuses at the time of slaughter or transport. My colleague Valstar is a spokesperson... No, my colleague Strolenberg is now a spokesperson in the field of animal welfare. I think he, with me, would like to go to work with Mr Graus to see what is going on there and what can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u113	You're pulling the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u114	Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u115	We are going to listen to Mrs Beckerman from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u116	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks I have taken part in various budget debates: housing, the environment, part of the Tax Plan and Groningen. I must say that was a frustrating matter. In all these areas, we face very, very serious problems. There is a housing crisis, the disaster in Groningen is dragging on, and there are major environmental problems. But the real decisions are being pushed forward by the cabinet, in the budgets themselves, but also by the majority of the Chamber, which will form both the old and probably the new coalition. This is the last budget we will be discussing here this year. There is also a great deal to be done in the areas of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We're in multiple crises and there's a threat of new ones. Today and tomorrow's big question is: do the coalition parties dare here? In fact, I am frustrated that that question has already been answered by Mr Van Campen. He indicated that that will not be the case. Mr. Chairman. I did sympathize with Mrs Bromet, who then asked: do we really have to start this debate again, or should we run away? I am going to try, of course, on these major issues but also on concrete progress. We're still in the middle of a nitrogen crisis. The climate crisis is following and a water crisis is threatening. There is still insufficient response in this budget. It is necessary to speed up the process of strengthening nature, accelerating that area-based approach, a future for farmers, clarity and opportunities to continue building, so that the housing crisis is addressed. Mr. Chairman. We also want to make a relatively small but very concrete proposal, which almost the entire Chamber is enthusiastic about: the food forests. At the moment, there are a few dozen. Some are not yet mature, but the concept appeals to many. It also appeals to farmers themselves, who see in this a good alternative and an interesting earning model. In my opinion, we can take some very important steps to achieve more food forests in the Netherlands and thus make more farmers a switch. We need resources for that. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I'd like a reaction to that. We are already hearing that farmers are stuck and just waiting for the Empire's support. Mr. Chairman. "An animal is more than a piece of meat." That is the first sentence of the Socialist Party's party song, as the chairman always says so beautifully. And so it is. The current system is broken, and humans and animals are the victims of this. The SP believes that animals are not only of economic use. We can and must deal better with the animals. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to try today to take two concrete steps forward. And I would like to return to an earlier adopted proposal. Let me start with those reptile fairs. Snakes rolled up in bami dishes, sloths, meerkats, dragons that can't move in tight plastic boxes, and armadillos and porcupines that panic at their cage and scratch. This is just a nasty impression of a reptile fair in Houten. In my view, it is time to seriously curb this type of practice. I'd like to hear a response. World Animal Protection research shows that 81% of Dutch people find it unacceptable that reptile fairs are still being held in the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister what is the state of play on this issue and how she looks at it. How many of these bird and reptile fairs are organized each year? We're getting some very disturbing reports about these fellowships. This is important not only from the point of view of animal welfare, but also because of the risk of spreading animal diseases. Mr. Chairman. Only two inspections were carried out over a period of one and a half years. This also affects the major problem of deficits in NVWA. Both inspections identified serious infringements. Animals were impounded. A trader was apprehended. Does the Minister want to make haste with much better control or simply ban these animal fairs full of animal suffering and risks of infection? I come to the specific point about the transport of cattle to non-EU countries. They were prohibited because of the lack of a system that allowed the NVWA to verify compliance with the rules. The SP was really proud of the Minister, also because she is doing her best to ban this type of transport at European level. But then there was a rather harsh lobby plan from Vee & Logistics Netherlands, where Helma Lodders is now waving the scepter. And now the Minister wants to allow those transports again. What's with the knee trap? With the plan of Vee & Logistics Netherlands it is also a bit like the butcher is again judging her own meat. The NVWA was not able to guarantee animal welfare for these bizarre distances. And now Vee & Logistics can report to the NVWA and the Ministry that everything is fine. That really is a step backwards in our eyes. In this context, the expert group's report on zoonoses strongly advises against approving this further. We can just make three wins if we ban this again. We reduce the animal suffering, we reduce the risk of spreading animal diseases and we can be considered a precursor in this area. I hope the Minister can take away our concerns. Otherwise, we'll consider a motion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, our beloved cocks. In June, a motion was adopted by myself and Mrs Vestering calling for a ban on the killing of cockroaches. In our country 40 million people are killed every year, mainly by grinding them alive. The Minister has indicated that he is now presenting a steering committee, with a broad representation from the poultry chain, the Animal Protection and the Ministry, but can she not be a little more precise about when the steering committee to investigate this is ready and sends the results to the Chamber? Because there is already a lot known about the alternative techniques. Germany and France are already shutting down. It could care about millions of unnecessarily killed animals if we did the motion quickly and properly. Mr. Chairman. My frustration remains about how we treat budgets here. Every time we try to come up with concrete alternatives. We will continue to do so, but with so many crises at the same time, it is really important that the Chamber takes its task seriously, regardless of whether it is coalition or opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u117	Thank you. I call Mr Tjeerd de Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u118	Mr. Chairman. My Uncle Tjeerd and Aunt Klaasje had a yard in Heerenveen. In their spare time they always went to the Workumerwaard to watch birds there. Just yesterday, my aunt told me how the meadow birds disappeared from our beautiful Fryslân. There are fewer and fewer kemphanes, gold plovers, chicken thieves, larks and grutto's "skries" in the Frisian language. Yn santich jier wanen se has allegearre fuort; in seventy years all these birds have disappeared very slowly. When I look at the country myself, I see why. Grepples are muffled, you see traces and puddles of heavy tractors used to take the corn off the land. And besides, it's a lot of grassland. My aunt and uncle saw nature with their own eyes. Over the past 70 years we thought we could separate food production and nature, but this turned out to be a mistake. We must respect nature again and integrate it into our food production. That's a profound transition. Mr. Chairman. I am going to talk in turn about nature, the farmers, the animals and the people. First of all, nature. Nature's so bad, the judge locked our land. Our nitrogen emissions must be reduced first. If we really give nature another chance, it will help us to cope with the consequences of climate change and healthy food production. Half of the nature in the Netherlands is outside nature reserves: the pike in the ditch, the sparrow in the garden and the blackbird in the park. The Minister has started a course of Basic Quality Nature. Is she willing to expand this? What about the monitoring of our nature, even outside Natura 2000? Do we know well enough how these individual areas are doing? What will the Minister do to further strengthen monitoring? Mr. Chairman. If we work with nature, it will help us to get to a healthy soil and the soil will be more resistant to extreme drought or precipitation. Natural warriors and pollinators also continue to live. Biodiversity begins with the soil and forms the basis for the crops and grass. There is a beautiful initiative by farmers and nature conservationists: the Grutto Attack Plan. Recently, the Chamber adopted a fine plan to spend much more under the European agricultural policy in the second pillar: rural policy. Is the Minister prepared to finance the missing funds for the Grutto Attack Plan? Mr. Chairman. Not only meadows, but hedges are also a nice place for birds. Will hedges also be included in the common agricultural policy as a landscape element? Can the Minister now guarantee that the registration by 2023 is actually arranged? How will the Minister finance the construction of landscape elements? Then there are four natural points: drug waste, the Wadden, our beautiful Carieb and the national parks. What about the increasing dumping of waste in nature? For drug waste there is a fund: then you get €25,000 per incident. But what if it's more or just garbage? Can the Minister indicate why human hours are not reimbursed? Then nature on the Wadden. Can the Minister indicate, with reasonable scientific certainty, that there are no negative effects on the Natura 2000 site of the Wadden Sea, both on the extraction of gas at Ternaard and on the cable at Schiermonnikoog? Then nature overseas, in the Caribbean. On Saba and Sint-Eustatius there is no form of waste water treatment. On Bonaire, only 14% of the waste water is treated. These are Dutch municipalities; it is unimaginable. The coral has deteriorated so rapidly that around 2030 there is only 1% of the original cover. As early as 2020, the Caribbean Netherlands Nature and Environmental Policy Plan should have entered. That still hasn't happened. Will we finally get the implementation agenda this year? Then the national parks. Four years ago, with a small impulse, a very large effect was achieved. D66 would like to give such an impulse again, so that the energy that has been released is preserved. Especially now, in corona time, we can do a lot of people a favor with a walk in nature. How does the Minister look at this and can the Minister provide a working policy framework from this ongoing evaluation, so that there is more clarity for all those areas that want to become national parks or areas that no longer belong to them? My colleague Wassenberg will talk about the Crown Domain, but that is of course also an area that people want to enjoy, especially in this time of Corona. Mr. Chairman. If you work with nature, you'll have to respect her, too. After all, you cannot win from nature, but you can lose from it. We will lose to her if we do not restore biodiversity in the Netherlands and if we do not restore our nature policy in many areas. Mr. Chairman. Our farmers and gardeners. I've been talking about my Aunt Klaasje, who I called yesterday about the meadow birds. I asked her if I could share how in the eighties the gardening had gone down. She said don't. After 40 years still a deep wound, because it is not only nature that is the victim of our agricultural policy. Farmers have been working much harder over the past decades for less and less money. Many farmers and gardeners are falling into the trap of scaling up and intensification. This trap is set by the processing industry and the retail sector and trap farmers and gardeners in a network of cost control and increase in production. Everyone deserves this intensification, except the farmer. A dairy farmer still gets €0.30 to €0.40 per litre of milk, as much as 30 to 40 years ago. A pig farmer receives only 10% of a pig's yield; 60% is for the feed supplier and 30% for the butchery. The farmer is the earning model of pesticides vendors, fertilizer and cattle feed, banks, contract workers, the processing industry and retail. Not farmers, but these parties are responsible for the damage caused by our food production every year, which has been calculated by the PBL at some EUR 7 billion per year. Meanwhile, as a policy, we are trying to remove the sharp edges of this damage with all kinds of rules for sub-items: phosphate, climate, nitrogen, water, groundwater. For each policy area, there are other rules, which all fall down on farmers and which also contradict each other. We have recently experienced the low point in the Seventh Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive. We've had a manure policy for 40 years and we're still not achieving the groundwater targets. On the other hand, farmers are plagued by the rules that this entails. The question I would like to raise here is: should we still want such a derogation? D66 does not pose this question for nothing, because the way we regulate it now is actually untenable, for nature, for water and for farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u119	Derogation. That was a term I had never heard of a year ago, but it is very important for a lot of farmers. Mr De Groot is now calling it into question. Why is he questioning the derogation here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u120	Because I see it's the end of a failed manure policy. In 1984 Minister Braks was the first to say: the manure policy is not going to work, we must try to reduce the number of animals. Later on, there was European legislation to lead to clean groundwater, clean drinking water for all of us. And then you have to say: seven action programmes further, we have not yet succeeded in achieving the nitrate standard. The policy therefore simply does not have sufficient effect. There have, of course, been improvements. But on the other hand, the farmers are angry about all these rules. Well, then we have to ask the question here: do we still want this derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u121	At the same time, we see that derogation companies are doing much better in terms of groundwater quality than other companies. Manure is extremely important for farmers. That's their brown gold. In my opinion, what we should want is for farmers to drop their own manure on their own land, in their own environment, and to prevent them from using fertilizer. They want to, but that's where the laws and regulations are at the moment. Does Mr De Groot not agree with me that we are much better at resolving these oppressive laws and regulations than flushing the derogation down the toilet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u122	Two comments. First of all, it is very strange that you are obliged to carry out animal manure and to land fertilizer. The idea is: the animal manure is so poor in quality that it simply washes out to the groundwater, so use fertilizer. We need to improve the quality of that manure. I find it a bit strange to say that groundwater quality is better among derogation farms. If that is the case, let us, without Europe, look directly at what is needed in areas to achieve groundwater quality. We do not need Europe for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u123	Finally. Look at it and see how it can be done better, that's what I'm always for. I would really ask Mr De Groot to look at a time horizon that fits in and do it in a way that farmers can experience with their farms, not from one year to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u124	I fully agree with that, but it seems to us like D66 to have a debate on whether we want to continue with the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u125	I agree with Mr De Groot that the whole derogation system is a very crooked thing. Why is it crooked? Somewhere a standard has been set for quantities of nitrogen or fertilizers that are allowed to land on land. That's an average. Each species needs its own quantities. You can determine that exactly to the kilogram. If you do that, you won't need that whole derogation system. Is Mr De Groot prepared to consider, together with the SGP, whether we can reform the system in that direction, so that we end the biennial circus of derogation and that we at area level can integrate this with nitrogen policy and call it all what is admissible, without being washed out but just looking at what the ground can handle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u126	I think that's a very good idea. If we get the targets, we can go by area and see what we can do. I would like to add that you must have the courage to take far-reaching measures. For example, and I will come back to that: no excrement-sensitive crops on excrement-sensitive soils, on sandy soils, because they are vulnerable in terms of run-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u127	That is clear, but that is also part of the current derogation policy, at least to some extent, to combat run-off on löss and sandy soils. But in thinking of such an approach, you can just let that be a part of it. So who knows what beauty still blooms between D66 and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u128	At least I thought it was a very constructive contribution, so maybe we can get rid of this nasty policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u129	Fine, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u130	Mr. Chairman. The farmers get the bill. Processors, suppliers and retailers remain silent, except when it came to fund those first farm protests. Some companies did that with a figure of five zeros, because they saw their earning model go down. If we want a transition to circular agriculture, we will only be able to improve the income model of farmers. That starts with all the parties around the farmers, parties that are only working on their own making as much money as possible. So what's the change to circular agriculture? Four things. The first is: use agricultural land as much as possible for the production of food for humans and not for animals. So no deforestation for soy and corn as feed. Two. Allow the soil to guide the choices for good agricultural practice, so no run-off-sensitive crops on run-off-sensitive land. I told you. Three. Let soil biology guide the cultivation of your crops. Therefore, firmly reduce the use of pesticides and fertilizers. Four. Stop... Stop... stop... stop... stop... stop... stop... That is literally the source of all emissions of ammonia and methane. Mr. Chairman. On the first point, deforestation, we still have a long way to go. Because the Netherlands is still Europe's largest soy importer. There is now a European proposal to prevent soya imports. Is the Minister prepared, as the Netherlands, to adopt the position in Europe that this bill should also apply to derived products containing palm oil and using soya in animal feed? You're trying to keep the chicken from coming from abroad. And two. Can the bill be extended to other vulnerable ecosystems, such as savanna, grasslands and wetlands? It concerns these two questions. Mr. Chairman. After nature and agriculture I would like to talk about the animals. The way we keep animals in Europe, in the Netherlands, is finished with the animals. I think 20 years from now, when we look back at how we're going to hunt animals through the system, it's going to appear shameless on our jaws. It's made me vegetarian, and it's not because I don't like meat. We slaughter 18 million animals a day. Most animals never see daylight, never come out and sit in cages of concrete and steel. We're transporting animals over hundreds of miles to slaughter them. Young calves, baby cows, we take them from all over Europe to breed them here in the Netherlands, because it is more efficient. D66 asked the Minister to extend the mandatory surveillance to export collection sites. The minister says that's an option, but why doesn't she just do it? It's time to get to animal husbandry. Recently, the Animal Affairs Council sent an interesting report on this matter to the Chamber, containing the steps needed to achieve such an animal husbandry. Can the Minister reflect on that report? Eating less meat can also help to reduce the pressure on slaughterhouses and the farming system. Chicken meat could help with that. Does the Minister assist in getting their dossier accepted in Parma as a novel food and in organising tastings, as requested by the Chamber at the initiative of D66 and with the support of the VVD? Then the people, Mr. Chairman. Our agricultural policy concerns all people. Last week we received the VGO report on goat farming and chickens. It is becoming increasingly clear that it is a major risk for local residents to live near a goat farm. Think pneumonia. I know the proportions. I know the provinces are issuing the permits, but that has to stop at the places where it is still possible. For example, in parts of Friesland it is still possible. Is the Minister prepared to make an urgent appeal to the provinces to stop issuing new permits? Speaking of health risks, what will the Minister do with Bekedam's report? There was also a clear plea about the vaccination of chickens against chicken flu. The Minister has started a vaccination test. When can we expect the results? Then the neighbors. Can the Minister reflect on the massive yellow colours of grasslands due to the use of satsumas? According to the European Commission, the legislation provides sufficient room for Member States to prevent stacked use. Surely the Minister should be able to ban the spraying of grasslands? That has nothing to do with weed control unless she sees grass as weeds. How does the Minister view the authorisation procedures for pesticides? There is a plausible but no causal relationship between certain pesticides and diseases such as parkinson and Alzheimer's. Shouldn't the delay in working through that scientific knowledge in the authorisations require extra caution in those authorisations? I'd like a response. With nitrogen we always talk about the negative effects on nature, but the health effects of nitrogen are underexposed. Every year we have 10,000 deaths in the Netherlands due to bad air. We actually accept that from year to year. Can the Minister indicate how many of these deaths can be related to ammonia emissions and related secondary particulate matter from livestock farming? Finally, as far as food policy is concerned, we are actually doing far too little about that. If you look at the people affected by corona, it's mostly men over 50 who are a little thicker than average. Shouldn't we also consider agriculture as food and health, so that our farmers ultimately stand for our health? Mr President, I see a lot of colleagues on the interrupting microphone now, but I am going to the conclusion. Earth doesn't need our people, but we do need the Earth. We're gonna have to save a lot of money on that beautiful blue ball. We can do it. D66 is an optimistic party. Jan Terlouw once suggested that each meeting should have an empty seat for future generations. That's the chair I want to put the peasants and nature on. If we really want to give them a future, then we really need to take far-reaching measures, now that we have to turn around and provide long-term clarity. This is very difficult in our political constellation where a constant polarization of facts takes place. Other parties particularly stress the impossibility of doing so. But let's look for what we can do to work together with a warm heart for the modern farmer, with an open sight and respect for the nature that we're going to integrate into our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u131	Is this the whole story of Mr De Groot on the 2022 budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u133	We've known each other longer. With Mr Bishop, we are the only ones left from the old Committee on Agriculture. The story that Mr. De Groot keeps here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u134	Don't forget Mr. Graus. He's having his anniversary today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u135	Excuse me, Mr. Graus. At least there are a lot of newcomers and I am listening to Mr De Groot's story and think: it's like a story from 2017. In any case, it's a story before June 2019, where there was the nitrogen statement on 29 June and Mr De Groot put on big pants and said: we're gonna halve the livestock. Is there anything left of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u136	As Mrs Bromet knows, we are on the same side when it comes to protecting our nature. The first steps have been taken. The Minister is now in the process of doing that. As you also know, we are currently in the process of forming a new coalition, and that will, of course, be about nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u137	So in the old coalition with the same parties, Mr De Groot talked about a 50% reduction in livestock and in the new coalition with the same parties he did not repeat that. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u138	Yes, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u139	So we're going backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u140	We shouldn't want that all of us. Mr Thijssen, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u141	Well, I'd like to respond to it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u142	You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mrs Bromet is very angry right now, but it is no secret that D66 would have liked to see GroenLinks sitting at the table because it might have gone much faster. Unfortunately, that has not happened, and that is a fact. GroenLinks can talk to himself about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u144	I'd like to respond to that again. GroenLinks wanted to rule and D66 chose to sit down with the Christian Union and the other old parties. We wanted to talk, but the parties that are currently negotiating with D66 were not prepared to discuss the substance of the matter with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u145	But you can't blame D66 for that, can you? I would ask GroenLinks to take a more politically mature stance on this, as your group chairman did in the Upper Chamber, who said yesterday that it is part of the whole game. GroenLinks would have liked to be there. D66 would have liked that, too. We fought for that too, but at some point you have to go on. GroenLinks made choices, which eventually led to you not sitting at the table. Your group chairman in the First Chamber says that this is part of the reality. So perhaps you can take that to heart, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u146	It's a bit old, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u147	I think it is D66's choice to talk to these parties and she cannot insist that GroenLinks would have been at the table. But there is another big difference between GroenLinks and the Labour Party on the one hand and D66 on the other, and that is that we are not in the coalition on the other. You keep a wonderful story and I hear a lot of D66 electoral rhetoric, but in the meantime you keep this coalition in the air for four years and we do not solve the nitrogen problem, we do not solve the climate problem and we do not solve many animal welfare problems. And now there's a budget that's not gonna solve that either. So I assume you do not support this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u148	I assume that Mr De Groot does not support this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u149	I assume D66 does not support this budget. The PBL has also calculated that billions are needed to make the vision that Mr De Groot has shown us possible. So this budget is going out the window. I assume we're going to fight for those billions so that we can actually go to nature-inclusive agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u150	You can indeed count on D66: we are going to fight for those billions to restore nature and give farmers a future. Let's hope that comes as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u151	I would like to fight for that with Mr De Groot, but you now have the choice whether or not you allow this budget to go through. Or are you making a statement? You can say that this is totally insufficient to achieve the D66 ideals, so we are not going to approve this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u152	I do not see any reason to do that, because in the end we will have to go on. There are also issues in this budget that are extremely important for the objectives for which both the PvdA and D66 stand, namely to start this nitrogen approach and to improve the prospects for farmers. I would therefore ask the PvdA to support this budget and have a little patience. I also say to the PvdA: it would have been nice if you had sat at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u153	I guess I'll start by saying we're not at the table either. But we are fighting together for all the challenges we face: the nature crisis, the biodiversity crisis, also for animal welfare, the climate crisis. And then I see a budget before us which the cabinet asks the House of Representatives: would you please agree to a budget that does not have a budget to meet all these challenges? And now I hear D66 says they're gonna agree. But isn't it true that the Chamber is missionary and we now have to do everything we can to comply with the law now and now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u154	There's no such thing as a missionary chamber. That's a very strange construction of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u155	Sure. But I would like to say that at least the cabinet is now decommissioned and we are on the move. We have the responsibility and now we have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u156	We sure do. That is also why D66 chooses to cooperate with other parties. We want to see if we can get a majority, precisely in order to achieve our own ideals. In addition, it is appropriate simply to approve this budget, because there are also things in it... Look, it's also about the first euro we're going to spend on the nitrogen approach. We are going to fight for the last euro, but the first euro must now be spent. We need to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u157	I'm really worried about you right now. Mrs Bromet has not even noticed me in recent years on the LNV Committee. I hope I'm not infected with the gray mouse virus, but maybe it has something to do with my modesty and my inconspicuousness. It could be!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u158	You get that a lot, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u159	If you'll allow me, I'd like to use Mr. De Groot as a vehicle towards the minister. I'd like to sacrifice an interruption for that. Mr De Groot, Mr Wassenberg and I recently received a petition with over 80,000 signatures on Tommie, a dog who was tortured for an hour by people from a special intervention team. With those 80,000 signatures, we have to do something. I want that from my heart for that one animal anyway, but we really need to do something with this. Could you also address this to the Minister so that there is a response to that? The petition was addressed to the Committee of Justice and Security, but also to the Committee of Agriculture, Nature, Food Quality and Animal Welfare. So I'd like to get a reaction. Perhaps you'd like to ask for it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u160	It's a drama that happened to that dog. He was assaulted by police officers. That's also captured on camera footage. I'd be happy to direct your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u161	You're not the pissed either. It's appreciated. Thank you for your contribution. Oh, there's another question from Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u162	Two things. I hear Mr De Groot saying "grasfalt." I would like to have a definition of that. Because I know that it is, and I think Mr De Groot knows that, that research has shown that there are actually more bugs and soil life in agricultural land than in natural land adjacent to those plots. That's an investigation by a young man or a gentleman, Joachim Deru, of the WUR. So I want to know what "grasfalt" is. The second question concerns the VGO survey on goat farming. There is still no causal link between those pneumoniaes and the presence of goat farms. I would like to know what Mr De Groot thinks about that. How many more studies does he want to have where it's found out that it's there, when we don't find a causal link? How many more tests do we have to do? When's that gonna stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u163	Two questions. The first one was about grassland. English rai grass, with a high protein content, is actually a monoculture of grass. If you look at what is possible with grass, with herbal grassland, a celebration of biodiversity, you can say that English rai grass is the opposite of that. As far as the research is concerned, perhaps you will have to look more closely at the research. If you look in those soils, you can see that it is indeed choking on worms, but that's because they have to reproduce very quickly because they get that acidic manure on their heads every time. So they live in some kind of permanent stress. Biodiversity in natural soils was much larger than in agricultural soils. That's what that investigation says. So maybe you should read the research properly. Then there's goat farming. I'm really freaked out by what the BoerCitizen Movement is suggesting here. There have now been a number of population surveys which show very serious results for people in the rural area and indicate a serious impact on health, for example by pneumonia in humans. Those are people you claim to represent, citizens in the countryside. It seems to me that we should use this suspicion, which is confirmed every time, to say: goat farming is growing in any case; we should put a stop to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u164	Of course I am in front of those people, but my point is that it is detected and that it is then said: we still cannot really indicate what exactly it is coming from. The VGO research is about livestock farming and health residents. It therefore only examines livestock farming. But in what areas is that? How much traffic is there? How much industry is there? You should take all that into account, in my opinion, to find a good cause. It is not a question of trivialising it; it is a question of closing down an entire sector on the basis of an investigation which is still unclear. I would like to see some sort of search made for exactly what that is. Because we can always use these studies to shout: you see, goat farming only causes diseases. But in the end, the goal is that you keep people healthy, not that you lock down sectors by assumptions and suspicions. I assume that Mr De Groot agrees with that. That can't be the target, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u165	I'm sorry. I'm really freaked out. Goat farming has caused a terrible disaster in the Netherlands: the Q fever, with more than a hundred deaths. And now I hear a plea for this... Time and again we get the suspicions confirmed that goat farming really causes serious problems for the citizens of rural areas. Then I am shocked to hear Mrs Van der Plas of the BoerCitizen's Movement plead here for even more research. It's kind of like the denial squad I've got here on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u166	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u167	No, the Q fever... It really is a huge, false contradiction that Mr De Groot is creating right now. The Q fever is caused by a bacterium, not a virus. It's just been a bacteria. So you can't compare pneumonia to what happened to that horrible Q-fever and terrible that definitely happened. I can tell you, and I have said this here in the Chamber before: my brother has had Q fever. I really don't play games at any time. But just to call in the Q fever to confirm an unclear investigation, that scares me. It is also suggested that I do not care about citizens' health. That's not true at all. My question is correct: should we not look much more specifically at what exactly is going on before we take all kinds of rigorous measures? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u168	The FarmerCitizen Movement wants to dampen the proverbial well when the calf, or rather the goat, has drowned. That seems very bad for the neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u169	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Thijssen from the Labour Party. He's gonna address us for nine minutes. Then we have Mr Boswijk, Mrs Bromet and Mr Grinwis and then I'm going to suspend for lunch. Then we go for dinner for half an hour and then we have a short vote on the Energy Council. Then we're gonna listen to the Party for Animals. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thousands of farmers in this country work very hard every day for a fair income and for healthy food. They do this by looking at which crops they can grow best on their land. They harvest them, they make food from them, they give them to their cattle, and the rest streams bring them back to that land. Furthermore, these farmers have flowery field edges. They have several crops on their field. That's how they get nature back in their fields. Then once a aphid comes along, there is also a ladybug to nip that aphid in the bud and make sure it doesn't become a plague. In this way, organic, nature-inclusive, soil-bound; these are all words that you can give to them; an agricultural system is put in place to farm with nature rather than against nature. The Netherlands is actually the perfect place to figure out how to do that. In the Netherlands we live in a very fertile delta. In the Netherlands we have a lot of well-motivated farmers. We also have a lot of highly educated farmers. In the Netherlands, we have a number of institutes that are world class when it comes to this, for example Wageningen University & Research. The Dutch delta is actually the place where we can get that we have a nature-inclusive agriculture. That is agriculture that does not produce greenhouse emissions, but which causes CO to disappear into the soil and perhaps become climate-positive. That is agriculture that no longer causes an endless amount of nitrogen pollution, but brings all the nitrogen pollution back. That's agriculture that might even give us space, so we can build houses in this country again. That is an agricultural system where the farmer can earn his food in a fair way and provide good and healthy food. That is the view of the Labour Party on our agricultural model. That is the vision we have of where it should move with the great problems of our time. We note that the current budget, as it now stands, is totally inadequate to achieve this. For example, the Netherlands is locked because no permits can be issued. That is because there is far too much nitrogen pollution and our nature is in a terrible state and is threatened. Greenpeace, for example, intends to summon the Dutch State and wipe the entire nitrogen policy off the table. I wonder if the Minister thinks this is a good opportunity. We've got a lot more problems. We have a climate problem. We also have a ruling from the Supreme Court on the Urgendavonnis. The Netherlands should also emit 25% less CO in 2022. The agricultural sector can make an important contribution to achieving this. There's nothing in the budget about that. How does the Minister see that? Why is agriculture not going to make its fair contribution to ensuring that the state abides by the law? Or do the citizens no longer have to comply with the law? There is another aspect of climate: the Climate Law. That law came through because of my party and GroenLinks. This law was finally adopted by a majority of this Chamber. The Climate Act states that it is very good that there are climate targets, but that if these targets are not met every year, additional measures will have to be taken. It doesn't matter that the cabinet is outgoing; it just needs to happen. I have read an opinion that was made very clear. For a moment, I thought it was Greenpeace's, but when I looked, it turned out to be the Council of State. The Council of State uses truly unprecedented language here to say: it does not matter that the cabinet is outgoing; there is a need for additional measures. That's what the climate bill says. That's just gotta happen. Why doesn't the Minister do that in this budget? Then there are two other problems. There is a seventh action plan for the Nitrate Directive. This is there to ensure that the water in the Netherlands is clean. And we already know that if that plan is implemented, we won't have enough clean water in 2027. Then how can we agree to it? Why is that not fixed in this budget? We are going to spend hundreds of millions of European agricultural subsidies every year. And they are not being used enough to solve all these problems. In this way, this budget for the Labour Party is very problematic. According to the Labour Party, at least three things really need to be adjusted significantly. First of all, a conversion fund is needed to help farmers who are not now farmers in a nature-inclusive way, to go into farming in a nature-inclusive way. The PBL has made a calculation for this. We also know the Minister knows this. It would take between 14 and 31 billion. Mr Bromet will be tabling the biggest amendment ever on my behalf to regulate this conversion fund. We can't wait any longer. We are in violation of all kinds of laws, and we really need to make that vision possible. The second is that if that transition has taken place then, there must be a earning capacity for the farmers. In this autumn, in a broadcast by Zembla, the Minister said that she sees something in a levy. That is a tax on unsustainable food, and that money must then be redirected back to farmers who provide sustainable food. I would like to know exactly how this levy works and why it is not in this budget. What is the Minister's view of the introduction of this levy? That levy may make food more expensive. The Labour Party is curious how the low and middle incomes in the Netherlands can still make ends meet. How does the Minister see that? There are a lot of families in the Netherlands who still have a month left at the end of their money, and they would get a tax for their choice. Then there is the third point that really has to be changed. That's also in the PBL calculation. We must not only create a large conversion fund, but we must also create many more trees in the Netherlands. We need much more forest, much more strong ecosystems to make sure that nature in the Netherlands gets on top of it. We also see far too little of that in the current plans. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Humanity is running very hard against the borders of its planet, and the Netherlands is running very fast against the borders of the Netherlands. Because the government does not respect it and does not intervene, society does. Through people, through all kinds of NGOs going to court. In the end, the judges are gonna take a hell of a lot of action. This budget ignores those statements. This is unacceptable to the Labour Party. We would like to have a debate with the Minister on the major changes that we believe are necessary, and otherwise we will not be able to support this budget, which is a pity. Because, as I outlined earlier, we have an unprecedented opportunity here in the Netherlands to put these farmers in their power and to make sure that we in the Netherlands are farmers including nature. Mr. Chairman. There are two other points. The first is about Wadden Gas extraction. We have a very large nature reserve in the Netherlands, the Wadden Sea, which is also UNESCO World Heritage and that is threatened. There are all kinds of countries in the world that have said: The Netherlands, you want to win gas under that Wadden Sea, please don't do it, this is a unique nature reserve, that you must protect. An additional legal analysis of the Wadden Union has also been requested by this Chamber to see if that permit cannot be stopped. And what does it turn out to be? That analysis of the Wadden Union shows that this area is indeed very vulnerable and that the Minister of Nature can, or should, stop this permit. Because there is a good chance that this Natura 2000 site will continue to deteriorate due to the Wadden Gas extraction. As a result, this Minister, today or perhaps tomorrow, can simply promise not to issue the permit for gas extraction. I'd like a response. Finally, my final point, concerning the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority, which we had a report last year that 100 of the 152 supervisory tasks cannot be carried out. I would like to emphasise that we are dealing here with food safety. But it is also about the balding of forests and the import of illegal timber. It is about overfishing of our North Sea and the threat to the natural system there. But nothing really happens in the budget, when we do have a very big problem here. Why don't we take out more resources for it? Why don't we raise fines? Why don't we make more clear standards so that the NVWA can monitor more easily? Why? What's the Minister waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u171	Was that your contribution? Yeah? Thank you. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u172	Mr Thijssen talks about farmers. I actually wanted to explain this in more detail. What does he mean by "farmers"? Does that mean farmers from family farms? Or does he mean the whole agro-industrial complex? What exactly should change and who should change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u173	What needs to be changed in the whole of the complex of rural areas must be helped by the conversion fund, but also the ability to earn money is that there are tens of thousands of farmers on the market where the farmers are going, but that all that food, as the PBL has made clear to us, goes to five purchasing offices, to a number of supermarkets and then to those 17 million consumers. What you learn from this is that those purchasing offices and those supermarkets have unprecedented power to get the best out of the farmers, and that those farmers actually have no resilience towards that kind of big parties. It was a while ago that Albert Heijn had an accounting scandal and then said to the farmers unilaterally: we are going to lower prices; we are not asking; we are telling you that. We have seen it at Unilever, a very large food company in the world, which even dares to say to our Prime Minister: if we do not have lower corporate tax, then we simply leave this country. That is what the farmers are dealing with, and that is why we need to ensure that these farmers are given much more market power and are resilient against these kinds of companies, which are only going for short-term profit rather than the welfare of the farmer or the planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u174	I listened with interest to the story of the PvdA, by Mr Thijssen. I largely agree with that when it comes to what is needed to ultimately put nature in a good condition. You say you will not support the budget. I think that is remarkable, because is Mr Thijssen aware of the fact that a formation is taking place at the moment? If anything comes out of that in a few weeks' time, how does Mr Thijssen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u175	Well, as I said in my contribution, the PvdA looks at it as follows. There are a number of court rulings and a number of major problems which the Council of State also says we cannot wait for. That is why, together with my colleague Mr Bromet, I will make a proposal to ensure, for example, that the funds for the conversion fund are now made available so that we can stand alongside the farmers and say: we are going to help you to farm in a nature-inclusive way, to continue to practice your profession, without being taken by the hand of these large companies and run into climate and nature boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u176	We look forward to this with interest, but I would point out to Mr Thijssen that at the moment there is a formation where the same subjects may be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u177	Then there is a question from Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u178	Actually, I'm a little freaked out about this, too. The basis for this budget is extremely important. It will not be enough for Mr Thijssen.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u179	I often say this to people, but I think that the problem we encounter with climate and nature is not a traditional political problem where we say: the PvdA finds this, the VVD finds that and we come out somewhere in the middle. We're running hard into borders. We have to respect those limits and otherwise those limits will correct humanity. The Netherlands as it currently exists is threatened by climate change, by sea level rising. Society as we know it is threatened by the enormous consequences of climate change. For that, we need a strong nature. That nature is protected, too. So we can't say it's 5% better, so we're gonna vote for it anyway. It needs to get 100% better. We really need to make a change in thinking about this and much, much and much more needs to be done. So no, the PvdA can't say: well, there's a little bit more to it here and there, so it'll be okay. There must be a change in the agricultural system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u180	So if Mr Thijssen's amendment and Mrs Bromet's amendment cannot be accepted in the Chamber, then the Labour Party will also say no to all the natural investments in this budget? Then it is not right for Mr Thijssen to be right. It is a pity that nature is not a bacon buyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u181	No. The PvdA is entirely for nature-enhancing measures and for all things that go in the right direction. We only have a number of boundaries to respect. This means that we really need to get to grips with a plan in the foreseeable future to reach the limits indicated by science, the judges and the NGOs, including with regard to human health. We must ensure a strong nature and a safe climate, and we must ensure that farmers can earn a fair living.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u182	But then I conclude that there is a budget that works towards achieving these limits and restoring nature, but that the Labour Party itself would rather be right than to contribute to nature, whatever those steps are and however much the Labour Party would have liked to see those steps bigger. That's too bad for nature in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u183	Then I wonder which budget Mr Van Campen saw, because I did not see anything in that of a conversion fund that the PBL proposes between 14 and 31 billion. So I do not know what budget Mr Van Campen is talking about, but this budget is not going to solve the problem of nitrogen, strengthen nature and make agriculture climate-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u184	Fine. We are going to listen to Mr Boswijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a few days ago, I was standing up to my ankles in the snow at a cemetery in Williamstown, Massachusetts. After a long search, I finally found the grave I was looking for. On that stone was written in Dutch "Here is buried Cornelis Treur" and "Here is buried Catharina Verboom." Between these thousands of graves this was a very special grave for me, because these were my great-grandparents who died two days in a row from the Spanish flu in 1919, which made my grandfather an orphan. After visiting the grave, I went looking for the farm, because Cornelis was a farmer. This brought me to several farmers in Massachusetts. That was really nice to see. I didn't mean to. What struck me was that farmers in Massachusetts actually face many of the same challenges as farmers in the Netherlands. Farmers in Massachusetts must compete with farmers in the Midwest and California, where there is a great deal of expanse and they do not suffer from mountains and nature, which they do have in Massachusetts, as our farmers have to compete with farmers in eastern Europe and we are here with urbanization. Those farmers in Massachusetts have therefore all chosen to create short chains. The farmers' markets are much more settled in Massachusetts. Three times a week there's a farmers' market in Williamstown. That's where all the locals come in. A number of farmers have organized farm shops and people drive 15 to 20 minutes through the snow to do their shopping. Supporting farmers is embedded in their culture. We cannot bring about a cultural change in the Netherlands by means of a motion or an amendment, but we can do so occasionally. Some time ago, a proposal was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber on regional food strategies. Can the Minister give us an update on the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, we have made a number of proposals that have tried to give farmers a better future. The motion on the agricultural test requires that legislation and regulations be examined in the light of farming practice. We have seen the added value of the National Strategic Plan. In the seventh action programme, we have seen that we have missed this test enormously. As a CDA, we also see opportunities for farmers to be more involved in nature management and the development of nature, and to reward them for that. That is why we have put forward a few proposals to give farmers long-term contracts here in particular, so that it can become a earning model for them. We have also put forward proposals for developing a third type of agricultural land, a kind of intermediate between hardcore agricultural land and hardcore nature. We have also tabled proposals, which have been adopted, to improve the protection of high-quality agricultural land. Together with Mr Bishop of the SGP, I advocated focusing not only on nitrogen, but above all on the broad nature objectives, which was also recommended by the PBL. Could the Minister please take us into account what has happened to these proposals over the past period? What steps have been taken to make the new perspective for agriculture a reality? In order to offer our farmers a perspective and to maintain their livelihood, it is very important that they receive a fair and better price for their products. My predecessor as spokesman for Agriculture of the CDA Group was Jacco Geurts. He's always worked for that in the past. Following a motion by Geurts, quartermaster Ferd Crone presented a report last week on how to improve the market system in the agricultural sector, in favour of the primary sector. We have heard many times today that the whole chain actually benefits from it, but that the primary sector does not really benefit the farmer, the fisherman and the gardener, for decades. What action is the Minister taking in response to this report? Another important part of the perspective in the agricultural sector is company succession. Two thirds of family farms have no successor. In October I already asked for attention to support young farmers and gardeners through a knowledge centre on agricultural farm succession. I held a motion on the financing of this knowledge centre at the time. I would like to hear from the Minister what the state of the finance is now and what progress has been made. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, there are already more notifications than the budget allows for the existing buying-in scheme for farmers. When farmers choose to stop and be compensated for this, unfortunately, they often come across surprises when the Tax Administration knocks, for example, on inheritance, gift or transfer taxes. The CDA recently tabled a motion along with the SGP on this issue, in particular to see what tax bottlenecks exist, to better identify them and to see if we can remove the thresholds. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. What major negative effects can have a lack of perspective, we also see in the fisheries sector. More and more families are being approached to smuggle drugs, because they are in major financial difficulties. Can the Minister explain how she, together with her colleagues from JenV, deals with this problem? How is it going to ensure that fishermen are no longer in this position at all? Then there is another big point in the agricultural sector. The Central Netherlands court destroyed the permit for the construction of new stock houses. This is because there would be doubts about the low-emission stables. Mr Van Campen referred to it just now: these are mainly systems which have been approved by the government and which have often been applied by farmers in good faith. Farmers are getting over their heads in debt with the idea that they are doing exactly what the government is asking them to do. But in the end, it turns out to be different with the judge. This is why the Task Force Acceleration Innovation Process Stalsystems issued the opinion in February to establish a management organisation. What's the status of this agency? This task force has given a number of advice to accelerate the recognition of innovative systems. What is the situation with regard to the follow-up of these opinions? Could a review or a supplement to that report help to keep the innovative barn systems still recognised? Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question about the Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas, the so-called IBAs. These have been updated recently. This was last done in 2000 and again in 2019. At present, the Ministry is looking together with provinces at what follow-up steps should be taken for these areas. Many of these areas are meadowbird areas where farmers have sometimes adapted their own operations on their own initiative for decades, so that the birds can thrive. And that's a success. Now I just feel that we are going to want to protect these areas better, which is suddenly threatening the management of these same farmers, while it has been proven that agricultural grazing bird management is very successful. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I would like a response from the Minister, who can reassure these farmers, who are setting the right example. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, I was in Friesland on a work visit. There a young farmer, Pieter van der Valk, told us about a beautiful project in which agriculture is used to process residual flows. Twelve farmers process vermmaisel and fence specie from the municipalities into compost in a project called Agricycling. They see the soil as some sort of intestine. If they were to succeed in further developing the circular agriculture on the basis of these projects, where perhaps even human manure can be used as food for our plants and soil, then the agricultural sector will provide maximum value for society. By translating these social results into an economic value, these farmers can at the same time create a earning model. Is the Minister aware of this initiative? Is it also aware of the obstacles to the processing of green waste streams for agricultural use, in particular as regards legislation and regulations? What is she doing with my colleague at IenW to remove these obstacles? Mr. Chairman. The Limburg entrepreneurs with turnover losses and the agricultural entrepreneurs in the floodplains along the Meuse are still in uncertainty, more than four months after the floodplains. Can the Minister clarify to these entrepreneurs who have been in uncertainty for so long, about compensation or about turnover losses? Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that there are quite a few sounds in this debate that match. I think we're all pretty much the same. That makes me optimistic. Finally, I would like to say that our task must be to balance agriculture and nature and to create a relaxed outdoor area. There must be relaxation in the farmyard, so that it is no longer every time or very often when I visit a farmer, about financial concerns or about policy uncertainty. But there must also be relaxation in the landscape. There must be room for nature and biodiversity there. At the same time, it must be clear that farmers can play a role in this. This should perhaps be seen as an addition to their earning model and not as a threat anymore. I'm optimistic about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u186	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u187	I would very much like to touch on the end of the speech. Mr Boswijk said that there seems to be quite a lot of agreement in the Chamber. At the same time, part of the Chamber is going to block a lot of that progress for the time being. That is what the parties of the previous coalition and the new coalition are doing. Is that frustration shared by the CDA spokesman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u188	I think we're all frustrated. A child could have been born almost since the election. I sat down yesterday...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u189	What did you do that night, Mr. Boswijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u190	This is currently my only point of reference at nine months, but perhaps I will think of another point of reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u191	You've lost all your attention. We're all on a different track now. Excuse me. Would you just like to start over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u192	Well, my strategy works. But I totally understand Mrs. Beckerman's frustration. I was on the plane last night on my way here, and I was sick of thinking again: oh, it's gonna be a few weeks longer. Because I would also like us to be able to stand here and have a good substantive debate. That has to be about: how are we going to shape agriculture in the coming decades? This must also become clear to farmers, because they are, of course, constantly being attacked by all kinds of shredded news in newspaper reports. That causes a lot of pain and unrest. So it would also be in their interest if we could get there very quickly. But agriculture is not a separate component. It's a big financial impact. Other tasks, such as living, also have a large financial impact. Then all these things crochet together. We can't, as much as we'd like to, cut it all loose. So we can't just deal with agriculture here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u193	If the CDA says it wants to rest on the farmyard and that it wants a better balance, then we in the House of Representatives also have our own task. I find it difficult to hold very serious debates here for months, and you also have a well-prepared speech to have a sort of anti-climax vote. Let me ask a very specific question. We are both... We have even been on a job visit after Mr Boswijk's first answer. Is Mr Boswijk prepared to support our proposal to make extra money available so that farmers who want to switch to a food forest will also have that opportunity? That is a good earning model, but time goes by, namely seven years. We can fix that. At the same time, we can ensure peace on the farmyard, or at least on a number of farmers' heirs, and a better balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u194	Indeed, that work visit was incredibly fun and for myself really an eye-opener. In some cases, it can actually complement the earning model. I'm about to read your amendment and judge it properly. I totally agree with you. You're a food forest promoter. I really want to give you those credits. But I'm gonna take a look at that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u195	I hear Mr Boswijk sighing and supporting and saying that the farmers are in uncertainty, but the farmers sigh and support because the CDA itself caused these enormous problems. I think it's important to reflect if we're going to look forward. Look, for example, at investing in stable techniques that we know do not work, and which Mr Boswijk recognizes is also putting these farmers under pressure. So we should not go on in the old way. Can Mr Boswijk indicate that farmers can now count on the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u196	Farmers have always been able to count on the CDA, and they still can today and tomorrow. I honestly believe that innovation can make a very big contribution, but innovation is not blissful. We need to look at more facets. If an innovation system doesn't work demonstrably, we shouldn't use it. That's how honest we have to be. But I do not think it is fair for farmers to be advised "you should use this system, because it works," after which they go to the bank to close up funding and then it does not stand up in court. Then everyone made their money, the one who sells the floor and the bank, but the farmer stays with the misery. I just don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mrs Bromet's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u198	Rest on the farmyard is a bit the theme of this day, especially of the VVD and the CDA. These two parties have caused incredibly much unrest in the policy sector over the past period. I wonder how Mr Boswijk is looking at that himself. I hear him saying all the things his predecessors used to say. The issue of innovation, in which there is still a great deal of confidence, I thought was very good. But the key question, which is about the fact that we have too many cattle in the Netherlands and we can't make it strong with all that manure, remains unanswered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u199	Sorry, I'm really throwing away from me that the CDA and the VVD wanted to cause unrest on the farmyard, because that's just not true. There has been a situation in which, as a political party, we all have a responsibility in the past 20, 30 years. In the end, we have ensured that this situation has arisen. On the one hand, we have an agricultural sector in which the whole world comes to see how wonderfully we have arranged this. Let's not forget that either. On the other hand, we must conclude that the balance has been lost and that it has not brought the farmers what we had hoped would bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u200	Thank you. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u201	Yeah, I'm gonna go over the rest of the farmyard anyway. If we approve the 2022 budget, is it over? Will we stop spreading more rules on the farmyard? Or are there going to be a lot of new things next year that farmers will suddenly have to meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u202	I'll tell you much stronger than that. I don't want to create any illusions here. Once we have completed the formation, have had a debate on it and clearly have the dot on the horizon, I think that will be a great improvement. But is there gonna be rest in the yard today or tomorrow? No, I don't expect that, even if I wanted to. No one here can promise that, neither can you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u203	That was Mr Thijssen's seventh interruption and this will also be the seventh of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u204	We only did six, didn't we, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u205	Yeah, I was way too soft again. Just scratch behind the ears for a while. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u206	I wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u207	No, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u208	I can, of course, ask four questions in one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u209	No way José.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u210	Mr Boswijk says farmers can rely on the CDA. The CDA supports this minister. This Minister says in response to a question that there is no lower limit to the agricultural area in the Netherlands. Does the CDA support the minister in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u211	I just asked a question about that. As a CDA, we have tabled a motion on better protection of high-quality agricultural land. By this I mean that we have to look at certain areas which are very suitable for, for example, arable crops or which we need very much in the protein transition, perhaps we should say that we do not have windmills there... well, windmills are not so bad yet. That we don't allow solar parks or urbanization there. We have tabled a motion on this matter ourselves. It's accepted, too. I have just asked the Minister in my speech how she looks at the implementation of that motion. So we can also ask her how she sees that remark in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u212	Fine, it's beautiful. Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Bromet. I call Mr Grinwis. In about half an hour, all together, I'll suspend for lunch. I call Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u213	Mr. Chairman. When I was an employee here in the Lower House, we used to do something festive with the budget. So I thought: I'm wearing my glitter shirt today, although I don't think it's very festive so far. But we are going to do something, even though this is a frustrating debate, as we have already discussed in interruptions. The formation simply takes too long, while the shortest coalition agreement you can conclude in the area of LNV is actually so simple: we are going to comply with the Water Framework Directive, the water is clean in 2028, we are going to meet the internationally agreed goals of Paris, not only in 2030 but also in 2050, and we are going to solve the nitrogen problem. But over the past five years it has been with the same parties as the parties who are now making a new coalition agreement, not at all that these tasks, which we have already agreed on, have been fulfilled. The Minister went to Brussels to see if the Natura 2000 policy could be abolished or watered down and whether nature reserves could be relocated. A Nitrogen Act was passed which GroenLinks already knew would not satisfy, which the rest of the Chamber is now behind. Agreement was reached on CO emissions from agriculture until 2030, but no one knows what to do after 2030, while the challenge for agriculture between 2030 and 2050 is immense. I actually feel sorry for the Minister, who over the last four to five years has been mangled between four parties who could not agree on the direction that agriculture should take. What did I do? I made an own-initiative paper on the soil decline in the peat meadows. My question to the Minister is in which area the water level has been rising. I made a national tree plan and a motion was adopted to give protected or special trees a monument status. The Minister didn't carry out the motion. I made a note with the CDA about greenery in the city. But there has not been much of that either, because a lot of parties are afraid that adaptation of the Building Decision will lead to higher costs, although industry itself says that this is not the case. We supported D66's motion to stop pissing on grasslands, but everywhere I drive I still see those yellow fields. That really is a thorn in the eye; I can get so angry about that. The minister hasn't been able to stop that. I made an initiative law to solve the nitrogen problems, according to the recommendations made by the Remkes Committee: 50% nitrogen reduction. The SP helped the coalition get a majority in exchange for the community care homes. Those neighborhood care homes are important, too, but are they there now? The budgetary treatment is always something I really want to sit down for. Over the last few years, there have been a lot of ideas that I have embraced in the budget process. Last year I advocated making all the vermen in the Netherlands nature reserve. What happened to that? I've also talked about leaving nature alone, more wildlife. Has that led to changes? I don't think so. Maybe I'm too impatient, because there are also things that come to fruition. One example is the farmers on Schiermonnikoog. I made this point three years ago in the budget debate. The Minister picked up a piece of cheese. The farmers there got rid of their cattle and started a cheese factory. I went to Schiermonnikoog with the I&W committee the other day. We all got a piece of cheese home from the mayor of Schiermonnikoog. That's very nice. But what will happen to the lessons we learned on Schiermonnikoog? Are we gonna roll them over the rest of the Netherlands? Another constant feature of the debate is the need for fewer animals in the Netherlands. D66 didn't want to make any more statements about it. But if you look at the animal numbers, it's a fact that more and more goats have come. The provinces intervened. But why didn't the Minister of Agriculture intervene? The Minister is listening to this debate today, but she is actually already on her way to the exit. That is also difficult in such a debate. On the one hand, there is a group of MPs negotiating a new cabinet and on the other hand the minister is on his way to the exit. And we are full of ideas and ideals that we want to achieve. GroenLinks is a party that always wants to fix what is broken. That is why we have already made an amendment to my colleague from the PvdA. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. But I have also devised a course of action which I think the Minister or her successor should really think about. It concerns two problems in agriculture. The one problem, which Mr Boswijk has just mentioned, is that a lot of farmers are going to have two thirds of them without a successor. The other problem is that we have too many animals. The solution lies in an existing law. At first, I thought we should make a new law, but we don't have to. We have a law: the Preferable Law Councils Act. If you as a government say "we want to solve the problem with nitrogen emissions and the numbers of animals, we want to see it escalated, we want nature expanded, we want young farmers without a father who is a farmer to have the opportunity to start a farm, we want nature-inclusive farmers not to feel the heavy financial burden of the land on themselves," then as a government you can just say to farmers who are going to stop saying: okay, you stop and you offer your land to the government first and then we look into those regional processes in the provinces or it can be useful, whether we can bring one of the goals closer. We'll pay those farmers well for that. That's gonna cost a lot of money. That is what the amendment is about. Together with the PvdA, we want to amend this budget by 12 billion. That amount is not taken out of the sky. That is, as the PvdA has already put it, and as it emerges from all studies, necessary to shape the agricultural transition. We don't have the pleasure of doing that. I have also had a lot of discussion about this in my own group: are we going to reserve so much money to clean up damage? I am not talking about farmers, but I am talking about the policy of decades, which we have been calling for all these years that it cannot be done within the environmental limits and that has been pursued. All these farmers were indeed going to innovate with these stable systems, took even heavier burdens and had to earn them back with milk, but could not earn them back. And now it's time to go up against all the borders and buy up farmers, and that's gonna cost a lot of money. As GroenLinks, we believe that we are a rule of law, so we need to compensate the farmers who operate within the boundaries of policy. But we do it with pain in our hearts, because we saw it coming. We've been watching a disaster in the making. That's painful, but we'll do it. We also believe that it is the Chamber that has budgetary rights, not the formation table. We are discussing the LNV budget here today. We feel that as a very heavy responsibility. We can only say no. That is our right. But we can also come up with ideas. So the first idea is: as a government, we are going to use the first right of sale. And the second idea is: we're going to set up a fund to buy up all the farmers who have to go. Finally, Mr President. I told you, GroenLinks is a party of repairing what's broken. This summer we had a farewell with the old Committee on Agriculture, in my garden. The minister was there, too. It's been a lot of fun. Many of the heavy debates we have had here have been laughed off. We have spoken with understanding of each other's views. That was a very different setting than here in the House of Representatives. I would like to conclude my speech with an offer to all the agricultural spokesmen here and also to the new Minister, perhaps he is among us; we do not know. Let's not do something cozy at the end of the cabinet period, but just at the beginning. Probably helps things a little bit better. I'm available to invite you all to my house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u214	Well, that's nice. I see Mr Boswijk already has his agenda on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u215	First of all, I would like to say that Mrs Bromet does indeed look beautiful. I hadn't noticed, because you always look beautiful. But seriously. You have tabled an amendment, a very substantial one. What did you base the 12 billion on? How's that gonna be broken down? How is that substantiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u216	The aim is to set up a fund for the transition in agriculture. Actually, that's what I read in the train pieces. This fund is outside the budget as we normally know it. We're borrowing that money at a low interest rate. Frankly, that 12 billion is a little bit of a cup of coffee look, but it's from our bill. We think it is necessary for the transition to use the 12 billion. I understood from the figures in the PBL that they are talking about 17 to 30 billion, but we also want to handle public money very carefully. We do not want to set up a fund of 30 billion now because the PBL says so. We want to buy out what is necessary and we want to pay a good price to farmers who have high ammonia emissions, but we do not want to throw it over the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u217	Clear, but it seems very short to me. You're saying it's a little bit of a coffee pie. I think it's a good thing this is happening in a good way. I myself think buying up alone is not entirely the solution. Then you empty or wipe the areas, but they still need to be managed. Who's gonna do that in the end? I would have liked it better if there might also be a role for farmers in the future, so that they do not necessarily have to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u218	Let there be no misunderstanding about that, because that is not the intention at all. If you are a government owner of land, you can sell it to a farmer who says he wants to farm including nature. As a government, you can set conditions for that. You can do that at a low price. You can also sell land to a quitting farmer's neighbor. Then you say, "You'll get the ground, but you have to make your business more extensive." You can also say: no, we want more nature in this area, because of the very great nature values at stake here. Then the farmers can manage that nature. So it is not the intention at all to wipe all farmers off or to empty land. It's meant to direct space. You're the owner of this company. Nor is it the intention of the government to hold all the land. You can simply sell it carefully at the moment when it meets our goals in the area of clean water, the Paris climate agreement and the resolution of the nitrogen declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u219	Clear. This reassures me somewhat, although I must say... We have made a calculation for our own agricultural vision, which we presented before the summer, and then 12 billion is really very little. Surely you can do better at once than you reserve 12 billion and then come to the conclusion that maybe more money is needed, which might make you more expensive in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u220	Well, that is what the amendment provides for. We say we start with 12 billion and then we see if it should be more. In doing so, we take into account the transfer of the PBL, which goes up to 30 billion. If it is well-founded, we would also like to go on to 30 billion, but be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u221	Mr Thijssen's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u222	I hear in Mrs Bromet's words that it is quite something for GroenLinks to do this, because GroenLinks would rather repair than reject something. You say you have to do this because that budget is so problematic. Can you elaborate on that? Then where exactly is that pain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u223	GroenLinks has looked at all budgets. We always handle that very carefully. Because it is true that when you reject a budget, you actually say no to all the things that are in it. If a budget is rejected in the First and Second Chambers, that means that the previous budget remains in place. Then there will be no new budget law, but the old one is still there. That is actually the case with this agricultural budget. We have a budget bill here that is not going to add anything for next year. So, no, it's not true that we're doing nothing for nature. We'll do the same if we vote against it. We simply do not think it is enough to stick to last year's budget, as the cabinet proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u224	At first, I was a little shocked by Mrs Bromet's plea, by her 12 billion fund, by buying out stoppers and by the announcement that farmers should stop. That sounded pretty boud. In the meantime, I have listened to the interruption debate that she had with Mr Boswijk and it is therefore a bit more nuanced. I would therefore like to ask her: how does she look at these forms of agriculture in the various parts of the country? Does that ask for a straight forward approach from The Hague, or is it prepared to look at what fits into which place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u225	No, I think that this is an area-oriented process. We have nature reserves in the Netherlands that need to be better protected. That is the basis of the nitrogen problem. One nature reserve is not the other nature reserve and one nitrogen cause is different in one area than the other. The provinces are working on it. I also asked the provinces: does it help you if you can make pace? Because that's what I'm trying to do with my idea of using the preferential right of municipalities, so that you don't spend the whole time with a whole group of farmers babbling about who does and who doesn't want to. The peasants who want to stop, stop. Now the land goes to the neighbor. My proposal is that the country should go to the government first. And the government doesn't always have to say yes to that offer. The government can say: in this area we don't need it, you go quietly to the neighbor. We want more direction. One more thing. It's not a bounty proposal at all. It is actually a very nice proposal, because it focuses on the farmers who are going to stop. It does not focus on expropriation of farmers who have a whole life ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u226	Let me also say that this interruption really corrects the picture I had at first. We have also included in the Nitrates Directive a number of elements that are very territorial. Certain problems are not the same everywhere in this country. I think, but let me ask Mrs Bromet once more for confirmation, that she is prepared to really look at what form of agriculture suits certain areas in the country. This is an area-oriented approach, which requires nuance and care. Did I understand that so well from her words?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u227	GroenLinks always has very careful and thorough proposals. I have also submitted this proposal to someone who specialises in the right of expropriation to check that this is a good idea. He confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u228	I heard in the speech that we share the same concern, namely that we are not going to meet the targets for the future by 2030. I wondered if Mrs Bromet could explain how the European objectives, including future objectives, will be achieved with this amendment. How does that make any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u229	We have agreed in the framework of Natura 2000 that nature in Natura 2000 sites should not deteriorate. It'll happen now. That is why the whole problem of nitrogen has arisen. That is why we have to clean up a lot of damage caused. It's gonna be a search. It's going to be a race against the clock, because we have appointments that include years. In 2028 the water must be clean, while the water is dirty everywhere in the Netherlands. That's a hell of a job. We all have to put our shoulders on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u230	Actually, I'd like a little clarification. If I understand correctly, it is precisely this amendment that would work towards achieving the European objectives and thus triggering this acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u231	Yes, of course. The good thing is that the solution to all these problems that countries on the farmyard are the same everywhere. It's about more nature. It's about less cattle. When you arrange that, you have less CO emissions and less nitrogen and cleaner water. You've solved three problems for the price of one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u232	To be honest, I am a little shocked by the primal socialist principle applied by Mrs Bromet. I thought we were getting a little over that. I would have liked to have checked the following, so confirmed or preferably denied by Mrs Bromet. What Mrs Bromet is actually doing is actually applying a system of collectivisation of agricultural land. The government has the right of preference. The government exercises that. That law exists, but for very specific purposes. Now GroenLinks is stretching that indeterminately. Every farmer who stops has to offer it to a government first. Is this really the plan, the proposal, the idea of GroenLinks: to redistribute the soil through the process of collectivisation? Is that really true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u233	Mr Bishop can use all kinds of communist terms against them, but I do not use them myself. We have a problem that is not solved by the free market. It's obvious. Those are the peasants who are all here on the Malieveld. They run counter to the principle of the free market and the environmental requirements that we must abide by, including as a government. That's a collision of interests. My plea is actually that the government can take the lead by indeed redistributing the land. That's a perfectly normal thing to do with the right of preference. You have a collective purpose. That is the purpose that we all have here. I just mentioned the agreements we made internationally. Whether Mr Bishop agrees with it or not, those agreements are in place. That's the goal. There's got to be more nature. We just need property for that, too. That's not forever. We can even help the farmers with it. We can sell it cheaply. We can fix it. There are all kinds of variants possible to help the farmers further. So there is no need to startle Mr Bishop. We have the best interests of farmers and of the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u234	Yeah, but that's what everyone here in the room has. Now it's just a matter of how you put that into practice. GroenLinks then chooses the path of collectivisation. I also find it annoying that it is a term that fits communist thinking, but I can't change that. That's a fact. I note that GroenLinks' proposal greatly increases the application of the Preferable Law Act to municipalities and, in fact, uses it to get control of private property as a government. That is alien to Dutch culture, so to speak. In addition, there is another way. I don't hear GroenLinks about that. GroenLinks says: the free market does not solve it. Yes, the free market certainly solves that! If we invest these euros in supporting innovation and sustainability, it will generate five to six times more returns than if we do it by means of collectivisation. Those are just the sober calculations. Does Mrs Bromet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u235	No, because you don't have to look at calculations. All you have to do is look at the past few decades of agricultural policy, which has led to the situation we are now in. Those are years in which innovation has always been relied upon that did not come. Those are years in which farmers have always been encouraged by the government to invest in stables that the judge disapproves of. And the victims are on the farmyard. They say: yes, but the government had to do it anyway, and look at that! We, GroenLinks, have been watching it all these years. I also don't like being right so many years after that, but I do hope that the new decisions we make will improve. I'll come up with a plan. That doesn't have to be the only plan. But I'm trying to move the peasantry forward. I'm trying to improve nature. And for standstill, doing everything the way we already did, you don't need calculations for that. Then you can just see how it's been over the years. And that has not solved the free market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u236	Finally. I find the way in which Mr Bromet has put the sector away as if he has not put a finger on sustainability in recent years. They've been working on it all the time. And they're still working on that. Look at what the government lacks, where public policy is inadequate! Let's start with just measuring. We don't even know, we sail in a complete fog. We do not even know what is actually happening here and what is effective. We do not know whether the policy with all the billions we want to invest in buy-outs and so on is really effective. The Planning Office for the Environment indicates: even if you do, even if you clear your entire areas, then still! That is the problem, Mr Bromet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u237	I will not be blamed for accusing the sector of something, because I am not accusing the sector of anything at all. I am talking about the past few decades of agricultural policy which has been conducted by the Chamber and which has led to this situation in which farmers are now sitting. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about what farmers did wrong. I know there are a lot of farmers who want to do it right. I hope that we will formulate policies that will enable many farmers to build and work including nature, and also make a good living with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u238	Speaking of sandwiches, I'd like to go to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u239	Then I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. It's nice. Sure, you have to invest a lot to get agriculture on a different track. I think D66 and GroenLinks agree on this. I only have concerns when you say that the 12 billion is a little bit with the wet finger. My question is: how are you going to spend it in such a way that it actually has an effect, so you are not going to buy it haphazardly or give it to the provinces or the municipalities? That's not entirely clear to me. If you're gonna pay for something, you're gonna have to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u240	Sure. A fund is so furnished that you don't have to spend the money if you don't have good plans. A fund alone does not solve the problem. That's part of policy. That includes measures. I have suggested one measure, but there are still a lot of measures to follow. I want to fight that it's wet fingering. It is clear to no one here in the Chamber, not even to the forming parties, exactly how much billion is needed to solve this problem. I just said this. The PBL says 17 to 30 billion. We start with 12 billion, so we start on the cautious side. Do you need more? Then we'd like more to be added. But if we need less, we don't have to spend the 12 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u241	Clear. Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to Mr Grinwis before I suspend for lunch. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u242	Thank you, Mr President. This weekend I started the beautiful new book by Louise Fresco, the plant hunter from Leningrad. I can recommend it to anyone. It tells the story of the brilliant Russian botanist, Nicolaj Vavilov, who, contrary to the political discourse of the Soviet Union, intended to prevent famines in Russia from now on and to feed Russia by collecting thousands of wild varieties of edible crops. He already realized that it is not the adaptability of a species that determines survival, but the quantity of varieties within a species. His ideas were only snowed under by the pseudo-scientist Lysenko, who talked to Stalin and his regime and promised golden mountains, causing famine and millions of deaths. The book tells us that the treasures of the Hermitage were secured by Stalin during the siege of Leningrad in World War II. A few blocks away was the institute of Vavilov with 400,000 plant samples, but Stalin was not interested in that. The employees of Vavilov protected the seed bank with their own lives with 40,000 varieties, while one by one they died of hunger. They saw, like the enemy at the time, the actual value of Vavilov's collection. Hunger death or life for entire societies, for whole peoples: it was there in that store. Meanwhile, we are much more aware of what our real treasure is, which is more valuable than art, silver or gold. Deep in the mountains on Spitsbergen lies the world's sofa, safely cold in the permafrost. There are 1.5 million different seed samples of all crops stored in all varieties in thick, impenetrable vaults, safely in the cold. North Korea's are next to the U.S. Brotherly. The importance transcends war and politics. This is about guarding the survival of humanity. The Netherlands has a unique position when it comes to producing these treasures. We are leading the world in the fields of plant breeding and agricultural science. The University of Wageningen already came to this debate. We have a real Seed Valley in North Holland. When reading The Plant Hunter from Leningrad I had to remember a visit earlier this year to the vegetable processing company Rijk Zwaan. That's a few miles away, in De Lier. And with how much care they watch over their gene bank there. Cooling cells where thousands of different accessions, many thousands of different kinds of vegetable seeds, are stored. Without Vavilov's research and material, which he had to pay with death, he was cruelly starved by Stalin, it wouldn't all have been there. For breeding new breeds, with new resistances and other important properties, the detection and collection of wild species around the world is extremely important, exactly what Vavilov did tirelessly. Back to budgetary treatment here and now. It is good that, in the current budget too, additional money has been earmarked for crop processing, for CGN, the Centre for Genetic Resources in Wageningen, namely EUR 4.2 million instead of the EUR 2.1 million this year; I think there is enough reason to vote in favour of this budget. That's great. This is also how we secure the legacy of Vavilov. On the farmyard, on the farmland it comes together, the knowledge of science, the farmer's experience in producing food, but also the policy, written by the government. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go back to the concept of the Seventh Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive, which contained sentences about an upper limit sowing date for catch crops as from 1 October, the infamous calendar agriculture, and "by 1/1/2023, the nitrogen use standard for greenberries which are not grown as main crops on all types of soil', with very serious consequences for farming practice. Every farmer knows that after the cereal harvest the next year of cultivation actually starts with the optimum care of the soil, the underworking of the chopped straw, the application of compost and the sowing of the right mixture of green fertiliser, appropriate to the main crop of the following year. And every farmer knows that that chopped straw and compost for the fertility of soil fertility needs nitrogen to digest. Moreover, that digestion process is not synchronised with the optimal growth of the green fertiliser, the catch crop, which also requires a little nitrogen. And every farmer asks himself in such a sentence: who made that up? To which water quality target or nitrogen target or CO target does this contribute? Has the creator ever walked on a farm? Of course, I also understand that the Minister is caught between the judge's hammer and the anvil of the European Commission and that it must therefore make and negotiate with one hand on the back, with a divided sector, with also conflicting interests. But still, policy must bring the goal closer and be enforceable. And yes, legal sustainability is a prerequisite. And yes, we have to comply with the increasingly stringent Brussels rules. But aren't we all so busy working on this that we are losing sight of the farmer and the naturalist, and that doesn't unintentionally widen the gap between The Hague and the countryside? Of course, this gap between policy and practice is not just a matter for LNV but for many ministry. For example, for exactly the same reason, I have recently asked strong questions to Minister Hoekstra about the Wwft, the law on money laundering and financing terrorism. In practice, it works very badly for SMEs and for banks. Exactly such an example. Luckily, this minister and her ministry were not deaf to the many views and the motions in response to the concept of the Seventh Action Programme. There is now a much better plan. But still the question of whether the Minister recognizes this analysis and this struggle about policy and feasibility in practice. Shouldn't policy officials who work on the same file only for a few years be more likely to just be in practice? Excellent experiences have already been gained in the Ministry with practical days. Good, but a day is very short, of course. A few weeks working on a farm or at a nature conservation organisation brings with it an enormous amount of practical knowledge and experience, which improves the quality of policy. Next time you think twice to write that the harvest must be well before 1 October of the country because by that date the crop should have been sown. By the way, just a few questions about the follow-up to the Seventh Action Programme. Following Mr Van Campen's motion and he indicated to the Minister that she asked the Committee of Experts on Fertilizers Act, the CDM, for the preparation of a list of winter crops. We welcome this, but is this opinion for the final adoption of the Seventh Programme of Action for Nitrates, assuming that it is adopted? Is the arable sector sufficiently involved in the preparation and preparation of the CDM's opinion? Will the Minister keep the Chamber informed of this process and of the outcome? Mr. Chairman. It has been a few months since the ESC came up with its recommendations for a broad agricultural table to respond as a whole to the challenges facing the agricultural sector. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this table should be drawn up as soon as possible in order to come together as a chain to answer the question: how can we achieve a fully sustainable agriculture for farmers and nature? What exactly is the situation with regard to the purpose of such an agricultural table? What are the contours? And when will the Chamber be informed about this? The ESC specifically mentions the lack of product shelves as a barrier to a broad agricultural agreement. How could this gap be filled? Do we need some kind of cooperative agro-authorities? How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure good soil management, farmers need security and a long-term perspective. That sounded a lot today. It starts with the ground. Investing in soil can only be done if the landowners who sell their land give farmers room to invest and to earn back these investments by offering long-term contracts and giving farmers a discount on the sustainable use of the land. Fortunately, more and more market players are beginning to see and push that forward. For example, look at a.s.r., which recently joined existing certifications that give farmers a discount on sustainable use of the land. But one village stands bravely against this green movement; I don't mean that as positive as it sounds. In search of the last dime return, this organisation still uses annual leases on a large scale. That's the National Real Estate Company. I have already broken the staff on this government real estate magnate in residential and energy debates, and today, unfortunately, I have to do it again. For example, I heard about a farmer in Brabant who has been renting a piece of the National Real Estate Company for almost twenty years, each year with an extension for only the following year. He took good care of the soil and invested thousands of euros in a new drainage system. And suddenly there was a letter on the mat saying, "The lease has expired. It was just one year each time. We're gonna sell it to the highest bidder from now on. You may participate, but you do not have any additional right to the ground." Legally, it may be true, but morally, of course, it isn't. It is, of course, an extremely harsh and undigestable message. Unfortunately, this example is not on its own. The government should have an exemplary role, but the government real estate company doesn't seem to care about farmers or soil. Let me stop talking about it, because if I talk about this practice any longer, I'm just gonna get angry. But it has to be clear that the National Real Estate Company has to stop spending annual leases and that as a syringe eleven it will still join the green fronters. Can the Minister call on her colleagues Knops and Hoekstra to do this, so that it really happens? Corona has been bad news in many areas for many sectors. Fortunately, there are also a few bright spots. One bright point is that many people have found peace, space and time to be more aware of the origin of their food. On a much larger scale, an errand was made locally, directly at the farmer's. The number of country stores has grown from 2,400 to almost 8,000 in a decade, everywhere in the Netherlands. In the corona crisis, their turnover has more than doubled. That's news to be happy about. Now, of course, it is important that we continue to buy directly from the farmer. Buy local goods, and we'll help each other! A better connection between farmers and citizens, a better price for farmers, fewer food kilometres and therefore more sustainable food: buying locally from the farmer has many advantages. We therefore welcome the Minister's commitment to the Short Chain Task Force, which supports such initiatives. Mr Boswijk has already spoken about this. I have a small supplementary question here. Does the Minister agree that regional food strategies are much more important than short chains, and that they are also about connecting farmers and citizens in other areas, schools working with farmers or food forests, more conscious consumption, i.e. eating according to seasons, and sustainable local food production, in addition to sales alone? Mr. Chairman. I almost traditionally conclude my contribution with the notion that agriculture and nature go hand in hand. In our centuries-old cultural landscape they even become one regularly. We must be careful with the space we have and we must be careful with the beautiful agriculture and fisheries sector in the Netherlands. We should not allow both of us to be left out for things that seem to be more valuable in the short term, but not in the end. There is a bright future for the agricultural sector, if we can secure it. In this future old and new come together, just as Vavilov used ancient races to give a future to Russia. Old as in the return of braid hedges, meadow birds, old crops and animal breeds. And new as in food forests. When we talk about agriculture, nature and food quality, our most important treasure is not silver or gold, but the wealth and variety of creation and the people who are allowed to manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u243	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman's fifth interruption. Actually, I'd really like to go to lunch by now. The Party for Animals is through its interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u244	I would also like to go to lunch, but still a question to Mr Grinwis, who spoke so beautifully about Vavilov and the world's seed bank. It's also called the Doomsday Vault. That Doomsday Vault was flooded in 2017 due to climate change. He should be self-sufficient, but had to be protected 24 hours a day. This means that we need to do much more against climate change. Does Mr Grinwis agree with me and is his party prepared to go beyond what is now laid down in the budget and not wait any longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u245	Those are two very different questions. Of course, the Christian Union is prepared to go beyond what is now laid down in policy. We have a climate agreement. The aim is to reduce CO by 49% in the Netherlands by 2030. We have a Climate Act, which eventually adds up to 95% by 2050. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we need to step up our efforts. In the end, that should also be countries in the LNV budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u247	Perhaps Mrs Beckerman would also like to comment on the issue of food forests. She'll have to save it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u248	No, we'll do that in writing in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u249	That's right. We're all hungry. After a story about hunger, of course, that's a bit harsh, but I get the signal from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u250	Very good. You have half a word; that graces you. I'm suspending until 2:00 p.m. Then we have a short vote and then we listen to the Party for the Animals for hours. Certainly Mr Wassenberg wants to be on the stomach again and again, so I think it would be better to suspend now. Nothing personal, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-01-tweedekamer-2.u251	I'm suspending until 2:00 p.m. Then we will vote and then move on to part two of the agricultural budget.
