ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of legislative proposals 35042, amendment of the Media Act 2008 in relation to tightening up the new services procedure, modernisation of procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernisation of governance and clarification of the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, inter alia, in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner, and 35453, amendment of the proposal for a law amending the Media Act 2008 in relation to tightening up the new service procedure, modernisation of procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernisation of governance and clarification of the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, inter alia, in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is only recently that we debated the Media Act with each other. That was a nice debate, where we have also been able to take steps to further strengthen public service broadcasting in these turbulent times. During this debate, we also discussed the importance and value of independent media. In this connection, we are appalled by the fact that we are increasingly seeing journalists being obstructed in their work. In the meantime, this obstacle has become even more frightening. Last week we were able to see how journalists were attacked during riots and even pounded with stones. 34 journalists have already reported threats, abuse and intimidation at Platform PressSafely. Terrible numbers. I would like, on behalf of my group, to express our disgust in the hope and, knowing this minister somewhat, the legitimate expectation that he will do the same as Minister for Media, in the strongest possible terms. We would also like to hear what measures the Minister is going to take to protect the free press. Then to today's topic. Today we are discussing a number of amendments to the Media Act and de novelle. My group welcomes a number of elements in this law. I will be brief about that. We support the amendments to governance. These are justified tightening up of the appointment procedures for members of the supervisory boards and directors of the various organisations mentioned in the law. It is good that the Minister should be placed more at a distance and that appointment procedures should be brought more into line with the general principles of good governance. I can also be brief on the novella: we support it, with tribute to those colleagues who were so keen to ask the Council of State for their opinion on the amended amendment Aartsen/Van der Molen. In doing so, the importance of the First Chamber has been underlined once again. So much for the good news. There are two elements that my group is critical of. Firstly, this is on the new service test. A second point of criticism, I think that the Minister will feel that coming is about the legislative process. I would like to dwell on this a little longer, especially at this time, when the importance of the purity of action and the provision of information to the government is more important than ever. During the discussion of the bill on the future of public service broadcasting at the end of last year, I considered the need to provide financial and legal support for public service broadcasting in order to strengthen the position of public service broadcasting in the international force field. A central element in this is manoeuvrability. Resilience is needed in order to compete with other players in the media market. My group is therefore concerned about the increased testing of services. With the proposed procedure for the Minister's agreement with a new or significantly modified channel of national public service broadcasting, my group believes that flexibility is being reduced rather than increased. I have a number of specific questions for the Minister. The steps which the government is adding to the existing procedure are not required by European legislation. The question then arises as to why this was chosen. What problem does the Minister consider to be solved by adjusting this procedure? Where does the need for the ACM to carry out a market impact analysis follow? There will be an additional time within four weeks for interested parties to express their views, while a six-week period will also be used at the end of the procedure. Why do we have to do this at two times? What's the ratio behind this? Or did the Minister wish to respond to the wishes of other stakeholders in this field? What makes the Minister think that the procedure with these two additional steps could be completed in six months, while in practice it has been shown that without these increased steps it will take at least one year and in one case even two years for the Minister to take a decision? What makes the Minister expect the weighted test to take place faster than the current one? I'd like a response. The NPO and broadcasters have pointed out that the new service test leads to more regulatory pressure and bureaucracy, and less manoeuvrability. The Minister replied that there will always be room for experiments. But when we asked about this, the Minister said that the experimental clause cannot be used to start in advance of an application procedure with a full supply channel. At the same time, the Minister says that if the experiment proves successful, the broadcaster can choose to continue the supply channel. My question is what the reality is now. Can the public service broadcaster start an experiment with a new channel, then make an application and, if there is permission, continue the channel of supply? Or can't I? I would like a concrete answer from the Minister. Now I come to an essential point of concern for my group, namely the way in which the government has communicated the amendment of Article 248a of the Media Act. This will remove the indexation of Star revenue. It begins with the fact that this change was hidden in the explanatory memorandum under the heading "other technical amendments'. I do not think that is right: this change is a change in the budgetary system with substantial consequences. For this reason alone, it is not a "other technical change'. Next, the explanatory statement states that the amendment is a clarification, while the Van Dam amendment, on which this Article member is based, was crystal clear in my view: both the state media contribution and the Star revenue had to be indexed. It is also reported that such an intention would not have been explicitly explained by the legislator. But that too is not correct, because it is literally stated in that explanatory statement. I quote what it says: 'It is therefore, for the sake of clarity, the resources that the Empire makes available through the media budget, which is filled by the state media contribution and the income of the Star'. In my view, the explanatory statement does not satisfy the requirement of care. During the debate in the House of Representatives, the Minister has repeatedly repeated his words and these are literally his words: "it was perfectly clear" that indexation should only take place on the state media contribution. It was just a matter of changing the law so that it would be clear to everyone. But I do not think his reading was entirely clear at the time. There was a lack of clarity. At that time, the broadcasters and the NPO took action on exactly that subject. That procedure was not mentioned in the Chamber throughout the course of the proceedings, at least I have not been able to find any mention of it. I also understand that during that debate the Minister had to insist that it was merely a technical clarification. There was a procedure, and admitting that it was a substantive change would undermine his procedural position. But my question is: is that pure? In the meantime, the Central Netherlands court has irrevocably ruled that the provision is clear and that both amounts should be indexed. In response to questions from the committee, the Minister also finally said that the draft law before us was indeed not a clarification, but an amendment. But what does this mean? Does this mean that the conclusion is justified that the House of Representatives has not been properly informed? In any case, the debate was not conducted there on pure grounds. It was not a question of whether we would agree to a cut in public service broadcasting by removing that indexation, which was precisely intended to ensure continuity of financing. Because under the line, of course, that is what this is about. The indexation of Star revenue is about several millions a year and in the longer term perhaps about EUR 25 million, an amount that can be made up of a lot of beautiful programmes. The Minister states in the note following the report that the ruling of the Central Netherlands court does not mean that more resources will be available. That is, of course, remarkable, because if the Minister had correctly interpreted the Van Dam amendment, it would have been clear from the outset that this meant that money had to be added. That's exactly what I was supposed to do. The court also finds that Article 248a of the Media Act has its own regime to determine the media budget. The Minister did not reserve that budget because he interpreted the law too narrowly. But the fact that there is no budget cannot, of course, be an argument for pushing the law in a certain direction. That's the upside-down world. My group's conclusion is that this legislative process has not gone well in terms of state law. The government is based on an incorrect explanation of the law and the government has wrongly supported the amendment to both chambers. Professor Bovend'Eert has come to the grave conclusion that the government has wronged the two Chambers of the States-General. Does the Minister agree with this conclusion? If not, why not? If so, what will the Minister do to fix this? The question is, after all, whether there is a proper justification and a pure justification for this legislative proposal in such a way that the two chambers have been able to form a balanced opinion. Bovend'Eert concludes that the necessary care has not been taken in the explanatory statement and I agree with him, as I have already explained. Back to what now? The question is whether this will prompt the Minister to return to the House of Representatives. I am making a specific proposal on behalf of my group. Is the Minister prepared not to allow this article to enter into force but to include it in the next amendment of the Media Act, with the explanatory statement being amended and a substantive debate taking place, so that the House of Representatives can still consider this substantive review of the method of financing the NPO? In my group's view, this is the only right thing the Minister can do to restore the purity of the process and thus also to serve legal certainty and confidence in public transactions. I'll finish up. It is clear that the government was not happy with the Van Dam amendment. The government is free, of course, to propose an amendment, but let us ensure that we debate with each other on the basis of pure arguments, that we call the animal by the name and do not use euphemistic indications to avoid the substantive discussion. I believe that because of our constitutional role we should be keen on this Chamber. We must stand for an orderly legislative process, and it is up to us as a Chamber to decide whether or not to make any impact on the incorrect interpretation and explanation of the handling of this bill. That's why I've been thinking so much about this. I'd like to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mrs Veldhoen rightly points out that the Minister must protect freedom of the press. My question to Mrs Veldhoen is whether she also understands the provision of information via social media. Then I think of news blogs from, for example, Joost Niemöller, which are often defined as disinformation. Does Mrs Veldhoen also include protection of the free press from the provision of information via social media?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u6	It seems clear to me that freedom of expression applies to everyone and that the Minister must stand for it. So this applies to all kinds of expressions, where the limit is, of course, if other rights are at stake or if there are criminal acts. But in principle, the Minister must stand for freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u7	So if I listen to you very carefully, Mrs Veldhoen, I say through the chairman, you are not only arguing for public service broadcasting when it comes to the freedom of the press, but also for the provision of information via social media?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u8	Information via social media, yes, but with the limits I have just mentioned, so the limits that apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives by Aartsen/Van der Molen on the incompatibility of supervisory and administrative functions in the media organisations and political functions has not been incorporated into the legislative proposal before us. I am aware that in its opinion the Council of State considered the amendment in question to be contrary to our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. In itself, the PVV Group can accept this opinion if it does indeed safeguard fundamental freedoms and journalistic professional standards. After all, the amendment tabled at the time in the House of Representatives was not put forward for nothing. However, I must say that the practice is unbearable. It has already been discussed in the House of Representatives. There is not enough distance between politics and the media. But in our view, it goes much wider. Indeed, there should be more political distance in the procedures for the appointment, suspension and dismissal of public service broadcasters. However, practice shows that there are too many like-minded people at administrative level. This results in an undesirable one-sided journalistic norm and programming, while diversity, pluralism and independence should be the starting point. The PVV Group notes that there is not always a case of pluralism and heterogeneity in governing and in line with this, in the journalistic norm and programming. For example, at the NPO we see a tendency that projects political ideals of ruling power in both the journalistic norm and in programming. The public service broadcaster, and in particular the NPO, sees the PVV group as a state broadcaster, the extension of the State. A great deal of attention to diversity, anti-white racism, inclusion, exploitation, fighting dissenters, climate obsession, so you want climate socialism and gender neutrality. No Black Pietjournaal but the Ramadanjournaal and glorification of the Sugar Feast. The Great Climate Change and glorification of especially left activism. And when we look at how that happened, we quickly arrive at the board of the NPO, consisting of Mrs Rijxman van D66, Mr Martijn van Dam, formerly Rob van Gijzel, PvdA, Adriana Esmeijer van D66, Ton de Jong, head of energy transition at TNO. In practice, therefore, the NPO Board and the Supervisory Board are anything but politically independent. Mr. Chairman. This disproportion, as noted by the PVV Group, is intended once again to bring to the attention of the Minister in this Chamber. The Minister indicated that he shared with the PVV Group that the role of public service broadcasting was to give a balanced picture of society and to reflect pluralism of people's beliefs, views, interests in the social, cultural and philosophical spheres. My question to the Minister is therefore: can the Minister explain what concrete measures he is carrying out and monitoring this task of public service broadcasting in an appropriate and successful way? Because it turns out that those guesses can't do that or that that doesn't come out quite well. Mr President, my second question. In law, the word "function profile" is replaced by "profile sketch." The question is whether those profiles include candidates who are not activist left, but who have a sober view of reality and who only express scepticism about immigration policy, EU policy or climate policy, for example. Can you indicate what exactly is the difference between "function profile" and "profile sketch" in practice? Mr. Chairman. The stronger role of the NPO led to the inclusion of additional safeguards in the 2008 Media Act, with the law of 26 October 2016, which would improve the independence of the public system. However, the reality is that the so-called left-liberal elite is overrepresented at the NPO and that the political agenda of this elite is brought to the public's attention unilaterally and disproportionately through public broadcasting. To clarify this, let me give you an example. Recently there was a documentary about list leader Sigrid Kaag van D66, a documentary funded by the Dutch Film Fund, chaired by Thom de Graaf, also from D66, under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture, Mrs Van Engelshoven, also D66. PVV-Second MP Martin Bosma has already highlighted the scepticism about the broadcast of this documentary, so shortly before the elections. The appearance of conflict of interest is emerging here. The boards of directors and supervisory boards are therefore anything but independent and objective. Otherwise there would certainly be much more pluralism of the media supply at the NPO: the NOS, the NTR, the RVU and the RPO. The media, especially the public system, have an important controlling function within our society. That is why media must be able to operate independently and freely, and we must ensure that the government, the politics, cannot influence the appointments of directors and supervisors of media organisations. It is certainly also up to the board and supervisory boards to consult themselves. The PVV Group regrets that the Minister is apparently powerless to enforce the Media Act. A left-liberal elite controls the media. Their will is law. Unfortunately, this is confirmed every day in programming and in journalistic standards. Mr. Chairman. We are assuming that we have a free press in the Netherlands that is free from political interference. In my speech, I indicated that the PVV Group questioned this. We hope that the Minister and this Chamber will consider this, because is an independent public service not an essential part of ensuring a democratic rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I would like to ask Members to focus as much as possible on the legislative proposal. We are not here to judge individual directors or other directors. They can't defend themselves here either. I'd like you to stick to that a little bit. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Hands off the press. I also heard Mrs Veldhoen say it, and I would also like to express disgust and disapproval on behalf of my group, the SP Group, about the attacks on journalists, because violence against journalists is no place in our democracy. That's the thing before. Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, we don't like collectible laws. We have even adopted motions for resolutions on this matter. Why? Because it makes it impossible to make a decisive judgment on parts of such a law. We cannot vote against parts of the law, as has just been brought to our attention by the President and the Registrar. It may be a little late to point that out to this minister, but I'll do it anyway. After all, repetition is the power of advertising. So we don't want collectible laws here. I can be brief about the novelle. Part of a law which is in breach of Article 57 of the Constitution, Article 8 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms does not, of course, belong to any law. But the amendment with the disputed passages did receive the judgement of the Chamber in the House of Representatives of the Minister. That makes me curious what it is like to advise the Minister; perhaps that is a point of reference. Is there no one who has pointed out to the Minister that there may be a conflict with these articles? Against the Constitution, the advice given to the Minister should be noticed. Or is advice focused on political desirability rather than technology? That would be undesirable in itself. Can the Minister, now that we are living in new times of openness, as we understand from the Prime Minister, indicate how this could have happened and what is then learned from it? Mr President, then the legislative proposal itself. The House of Representatives discussed this bill in April 2019. That was almost two years ago. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether there have been any developments in the last two years that call for nuance or adaptation in the interpretation of the proposals before us in this collective law. That's just an open question in advance. Has anything else happened in the last two years that the Minister says: if I had to do it now, perhaps I would want it to be different? Mr President, then there is the new service procedure. The question remains why the Authority has been designated to carry out a market impact analysis. The Minister said in the House of Representatives: "The ACM simply has powers, capabilities and tools, also to obtain information properly, and "that's their quality "to make very sharp analyses." But that also gives me some concern, because my question to the Minister is then whether the objective, namely the analysis which the Minister wishes, is to legitimise the ACM in order to make use of the powers conferred on the ACM. Is this data collection allowed for this purpose? This is very precise because this could jeopardise the whole procedure if the ACM were not legitimised for this purpose, so my question is how legally hard this data collection is for this purpose. For the maximum period of six months, the Minister keeps repeating that he thinks it should all work out, but he says that so often that this in itself raises doubts. Because if the six-month period is the maximum period, the aim should not be to take six months. Does the Minister agree with me? I can see this myself. The other day I had to arrange something with a municipality, not in my own hometown, but in another municipality, and I called to say that the time limit of eight weeks has almost expired. "Yes," they said, "but not quite yet, and it takes us eight weeks." That's not quite... I know this from my own board experience, too. It is said very quickly: yes, but it stands for six months. That doesn't mean it takes you six months. Does the Minister agree with me that you should actually assume that you still have a margin within those six months, and not that everything might be possible just within those six months? And is there a plan B in case it turns out in practice that those six months are not being passed? Mr. Chairman. What is the legal status of the Minister's ultimate judgment? What if the parties disagree with the Minister's final judgment? Are there any legal options left? That did not become quite clear in the debate. I would therefore like to hear that again from the Minister in this debate. Is that simply an administrative decision against which there is still an open objection and appeal before a final decision is taken? Because everything is now being arranged at the front, about who is allowed to submit an opinion at what point, and so on, but what about that? If I may make a comparison with the Environment Act, it is clearly agreed that participation does not stand in the way of being allowed to follow legal procedures afterwards, even if you have not submitted an opinion. It doesn't waste rights. I would like to make that quite clear. I assume that there will be another opportunity to challenge the Minister's judgment. If so, what is that? If not, does the Minister consider it justified, given the far-reaching consequences? With some surprise I followed the debate on this in the House of Representatives, because it seemed there that the Minister filled it out very informally. So I would like to have some clarity about that, because "everyone can find something, but we don't record it," was about the Minister's line for the process at the front. I do not understand that very well because procedures are necessary, but that is probably what the lawyers are meant to provide. Not to record a favor, but to establish a right. Mr. Chairman. Let me make a few comments on the governance of the Star. In the Lower House, the Minister described the current situation on the basis of Twynstra Gudde's report as "no longer of this time." "No distinction between governance and supervision," but in fact that is just a one-tierboard in terms of governance, and that model can work well if everyone is aware of and adheres to its role. It is a monist model of governance in which executive and non-executive directors are present. The advantage is that there will be better information for regulators at an earlier stage. I do not argue for that, understand me well, but it is not that it would not be of this time anymore. We passed a law just in 2013 to make that of today's era in the case of e.g.s and nv's. So I think that's a bit weird. A one-tierboard can also operate effectively, but that does require clarity from everyone and awareness of everyone's role and position in such a model. Why hasn't this happened before and why hasn't it been pointed out before? The fact that a two-tierboard is now chosen in governance terms will not solve the problem automatically. If the role of this new model is not respected again, then we will have the following problem. My question is therefore for the Minister how forceful this new construction will be if it is not clear that people must keep to their role and be aware of it. That was the demise of the previous model. How will the Minister ensure that it will work in this new model, that people become aware of their role and that this will also lead to good implementation in practice? Mr. Chairman. I would have taken a few minutes to answer the question of indexation, but in view of Mr Veldhoen's extensive speech, I can fully endorse it without having to repeat it. I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. Violence against journalists is unacceptable. That is what the VVD thinks, and I mentioned it in a debate in December. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is critical of this law and that is especially in its implementation. On the one hand, my group believes that the law on the appointment of supervisory boards and boards is an improvement. Governance and the legislative proposal are more in line with the current tense. On the other hand, the VVD Group believes that there may be an undesirable delay in the legislative proposal, because under the current law you already see that the six-month period for applying for a new or significantly modified channel of supply is exceeded. That deadline was exceeded when applying for the NPO Soul & Jazz channel via the analogue cable, and when applying for NPO Knowledge. Mr. Chairman. According to the VVD Group, this delay can occur on two points in the legislative proposal. First of all, the legal anchoring of the role of the ACM. The VVD asks the Minister whether there are also situations in which a market impact analysis is not necessary or unnecessary. Secondly, the additional round of participation of commercial parties early in the process, namely before the Minister asks for advice from the Media Commissioner and the Culture Council, and before the Minister asks the ACM to carry out a market analysis. That round of participation was already there, after the Minister's draft decision, and it will continue to be so. This can also lead to delays in the VVD's vision. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the VVD Group has a question for the Minister. The Minister indicated that the earlier and additional possibility for interested parties to express their views would allow these views to be taken into account in the opinions and analysis. The VVD Group asks the Minister whether it will not be washed up. Is this not an unnecessary bureaucratic process set up? If you are already giving interested parties an additional round of participation, is it not obvious that stakeholders can be assured that their views are involved in any event? Mr. Chairman. Mr Aartsen and Mr Van der Molen have tabled an amendment to the House of Representatives on combating conflicts of interest. The amendment stipulated that the broadcasting services should not combine administrative and supervisory functions with political functions and functions of political parties. The aim of the amendment was to prevent too much political involvement in the media system. Imagine, a member of the House of Representatives wants to start a new offer channel. There may then be a conflict of interest, because the Minister must judge on the application for such a new channel of supply. The novelle has now removed the amendment from the legislative proposal. How will the Minister ensure that there is no conflict of interest in these and similar situations? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of whether or not to index income from Star advertising. A lot has been said about it. The bill does not aim to index Star revenue. Star revenue is not indexed in the current fiscal systems. It has appeared to the VVD Group that, as regards the non-indexation of Star Income, after the ruling of the Central Netherlands court, there is no longer any question of repairing an ambiguity, but that there is a change in the law on this point which the government would like to see amended. The VVD Group can imagine that indexation of Star revenue has an undesirable effect. The government does not consider it desirable because the costs, the budget to be made available, will increase significantly without the introduction of the legislative proposal. Indeed, if the legislative proposal is not adopted, revenues from the market, Star revenue, should be increased annually by an additional contribution from the public authorities, which the VVD Group does not consider desirable. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the VVD Group asks itself two questions which it would like to put to the Minister. Has the House of Representatives been able to speak enough about changing the law now, rather than clarifying it? Two. Can public service broadcasting prepare itself sufficiently for this change of law so that the policy can be adapted accordingly? The VVD Group asks the Minister to clarify both points. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mrs De Blécourt rightly asks the Minister to ensure that there is no conflict of interest with public service broadcasting. That's perfectly right. That's what we care about. Only my question is to Mrs De Blécourt: does the VVD also consider there to be a political conflict of interest in public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u17	I find that a difficult question to answer. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to ensure that this does not happen. That's his job. First of all, I would like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Van Kesteren. No? Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the other Media Act, which deals with strengthening the future perspective of public service broadcasting, we have almost all discussed in detail the importance of public service broadcasting for our ever-changing society. The PvdA Group has therefore spoken with appreciation about the imperfect, pluralistic order we have in the Netherlands. There is no perfectly organized public broadcasting, or as I always say at home: a clean desk is the sign of a sick mind. Nevertheless, today we are discussing the proposals for a tighter organisation of our public service broadcasting: the Star, the NPO and the tasks of the Media Commissioner. Those are good changes. My predecessors in this debate have already mentioned this. Our group has no comments on this. An amendment has been tabled in the House of Representatives. Colleagues De Blécourt and Janssen have already discussed this in detail. That turned out to be unconstitutional. This Chamber has indeed done its job. The amendment has been returned. The Council of State has said: unconstitutional, not good. I agree with Mr Janssen's question: what about the Minister's advice during the debate in the Lower House? We do not need to treat the novelle further, because it looks good. The PvdA Group does, however, have comments on two parts of this law that are not going to improve public service broadcasting. We are also dissatisfied with the way one of the parts has been presented. Mr. Chairman. The members of the PvdA Group are, when I say it neatly, grumpy. For months now, we have been ping-ponging the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA groups across the street, with the Minister on a so-called technical change in the indexing of the budget. It is only after a court ruling that the Minister admits that this is indeed a change of law and not a clarification. Only then will the monkey come out of the sleeve: the minister had not reserved enough budget. Mr. Chairman. We have seen from this government so many times now, also in other cases, that information comes too late or is leaked prematurely to the press. This is another case. This amendment was discussed in a debate in the House of Representatives. The Minister insisted that the Chamber had meant something different than the Chamber itself had said. In the end, a judge had to be involved. But in concrete terms, this change will lead to a cut in the budget. Why is the Minister doing this? Why was this necessary? Why, as Mr Bovend'Eert says, did the Chamber have to be misplaced? Why hasn't the Minister been open-minded from the start: "Dear Members of Parliament, I'm changing the law because I haven't made enough reservations"? Then the House of Representatives could have talked about this and could have taken a balanced decision. The House of Representatives also has budget rights. On second thought, does the Minister consider that "on second thought" is a very nice piece of teaching in this Chamber that should have been different and could have been different? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the fact that my group is displeased with the way things are going, she believes that the austerity that this legislative amendment means de facto should be reversed. Public service broadcasting has already endured a great deal of austerity in recent years and they have often been passed on to employees as regards the quality of contracts of employment, flex contracts, as happened last year, and thus also on the income of the creators. Our public service broadcasting makes a lot of good programmes for relatively little money, especially when compared to the BBC or German public service broadcasting, which we often like to compare to. We all do it very economically, for little money, but of good quality. If our Dutch public service broadcaster is to be able to compete well with new media, especially all new video on demand, then you simply cannot cut back further. We also discussed this in detail in the previous debate. For a common idea about what the Netherlands is in all its pluralism, I say to the colleague of the PVV, which is true and not true, for a good debate on facts and especially for good investigative journalism, in which people have time to check facts and hear and hear, you need a good public service. Then it cannot be that for an apple and an egg journalistic programs are made. In response to the court ruling, the Minister says that he is following the judge's ruling, but only when it comes to the definition. It's not a clarification, it's a change. The Minister admits this, but he does not follow the Minister's statement that indexation on both the share of the State's media contribution and the share of the Star contribution should take place. He says he doesn't have enough money. The PvdA Group simply disagrees. After everything that's happened, the government just needs to index the whole amount. It is estimated to be between 0.5% and 1% of the public service broadcasting budget each year. That is what we at home call a nibble-squeeze, which we have also experienced with the interest rates of the banks, but it is still a cut. Mr. Chairman. We know the Minister as someone with a warm heart for public service broadcasting and for pluralism. Does he agree with the PvdA Group that yet another cut, no matter how small, simply cannot be reached? This cut will increase to several million in the coming years. In the Lower House it is estimated at 25 million euros. That's just a lot of money for broadcasters, where all the fat has already been cut out. Suppose this bill is passed, is the Minister prepared to still draw the money the NPO was entitled to according to the original meaning of Article 2.148a, second paragraph, i.e. indexing on the basis of the whole amount, including Star revenue? I understand that this has happened in recent years. I would like to have a commitment from the Minister. The Ministry's sleeve often shakes a surprising amount of money, especially when shaking hard. If the Minister does not wish to do so, does he agree with my group that the House of Representatives should have been able to hold an orderly debate? Mr Veldhoen van GroenLinks has already asked if the Minister would like to take the law back. Or does he, as state law scholar Bovend'Eert suggests, wish to amend the explanatory statement? It is a strange figure, but if the Minister really wants to be consistent after his recognition that this was a change, then he should discuss it with the House of Representatives. Or, and with that, I actually agree with the Minister's comment on the nature of the Star Income which is changing rather; in fact, I think they are going to change even more in the future. Is he prepared to think about another basis for indexation and to compensate for any decline in Star Income? Such a new basis could give public service broadcasters more certainty about indexation. A new government can then work with a well-developed proposal from this minister. We hope, of course, that the new government will be made up of parties which share the importance of a strong and pluralist public service. My second point of criticism concerns the limitation of the freedom of movement for public service broadcasting. We continue to question the provisions on the new service procedure. The colleague of the VVD has already asked a number of critical questions about this. We simply do not understand why the government wanted this extra test. We understand that the D66 Group in the House of Representatives made a comment on this in 2014. We have seen in the explanatory statement that, as far as the European Commission is concerned, we are in line with state aid procedures. What exactly is the reason for making this more complicated and slower? Whose interests are served by this? The consultation shows that mainly commercial parties are happy with it. I'll give them that, but is it necessary? Has the government also provided extra FTE for the ACM? It has previously indicated that the ACM does not give priority to such questions. The colleague of the VVD has already said that this can lead to endless delays. The PvdA Group does not see how this law, as it now stands, can contribute to the agility of public service broadcasting because of the additional test of the ACM and we do not see how it can contribute to the financing of public service broadcasting because of the deletion of the additional provision in the indexation. The other amendments can, as I said, count on the agreement of the PvdA, but they are not so pressing and necessary that they can make up for the deterioration that this law contains. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with the PvdA that this law contains two deteriorations for public service broadcasting, namely the nibble economy and the extra bureaucratic and unnecessary hurdle? If so, will he then consider improving the law within the possibilities he has and possibly adding extra money to the NPO? If not, will he consider with us how to reverse the austerity and find another basis for indexation? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group looks forward to the Minister's answers. We hope that together we can come up with solutions that will lead to improvements in public service broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mrs Vos says that preventing political influence is a matter of more money. That's what she's arguing for. Does Mrs Vos not agree that it is not just a matter of more money, but should also be a change in the direction of the NPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u22	No, not at all. I'm fine with running the NPO. I have often heard that remark from Mr Van Kesteren. Slide someone forward, apply. The same goes for the talk programmes. I understand that Mr Wilders never responds to invitations. It would help for the desired pluralism if your party leader would do so more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u23	It's not stuck on an invitation from Mr. Wilders. There's 1 billion available. It turns out that every day it is confirmed that the journalistic norm, the programming, is in balance and that the news provision, the other sound, is forced to present itself to the public via social media. Do you deny that? Do you recognize that? Would you care to think about that? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u24	What is your question about this law on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u25	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u26	What is the relation of your question to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u27	The question of this law? I believe that the public broadcasting authorities are often like-minded and that this is reflected in the journalistic norm and programming. I ask Mrs Vos if she recognizes this. The other sound must therefore mainly be presented to the public via social media. I'm asking if she recognizes this or at least wants to think about it as a senator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u28	Sure, I'll think about it. But there's one journalistic standard I think is rather sacred, and that's hearing and hearing again, check, double check. That is exactly what public service broadcasting does, and that is exactly what you need to do if the greatest possible nonsense is to be spread unchecked through social media. Especially when it comes to the corona debate and corona discussions, it sometimes hurts me what unverified nonsense comes to us via social media. Then I am very pleased that we have a public service channel with journalists who also have an internal code that has been checked and double-checked before they get into the media. That debate may and must take place. This is also happening in the talk programmes, and this is also being balanced through the news bulletins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Van Kesteren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u30	Then I would like to draw Mrs Vos' attention to whether she recognizes that too, I do not think, because she clearly defines social media as disinformation which, in a variety of lists of politically similar ones, is much more addressed by public service broadcasting. People with a counter-sound are invited and they are also mentioned, but this is often ridiculed or dismissed as disinformation. Last Sunday we saw in Buitenhof that there was an interrogation of a political movement. I would like to ask Mrs Vos if she would like to review the forthcoming broadcasts at Buitenhof, which include the other listers, just to be quite objective, regardless of political colour, just to look at and listen to what the question is like, what the atmosphere is like and what room other listers get there. I'll make that request to the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mrs. Vos, I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u32	Of course, I've already done that. I have seen that the former leader of the PvdA has also been interrogated. That was pretty critical. I have also seen complaints on social media about the nevertheless friendly treatment of some right-wing party leaders in public talk programmes. If you look at it very objectively, everyone will receive the same critical treatment and it would be a credit to Mr Wilders, your party leader, if he would also submit to the same critical treatment as other party leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group. May I remind Members that 1.5 metres away for your own safety is the norm in the Netherlands, if you really need to be functionally in the room. So for your own safety, I'd like to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the last parliamentary term of the First Chamber, we discussed the amendments to the Media Act, which the Senate had great difficulty with at the time. At the time, this was also particularly about the Aartsen/Van der Molen amendment, which makes it impossible for politicians to play an active role in the administration of public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u35	Excuse me, Mr. Arrowman, a moment. I see that some Members are too close together. If you cannot maintain the 1.5 meters, at least put on a mouth cap for your own safety. But it is preferable, if you have to be functional in the Chamber because you are taking part in the debate, which is of course your right, to keep at least 1.5 metres away for your own safety and also for the safety of your colleagues. Mr. Arrowman, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr President, I have just said that this was particularly about the Archangel/Van der Molen amendment which makes it impossible for politicians to play an active role in public service broadcasting. Eventually, the Senate forced a novelle, following information from the Council of State, which concluded that the amendment was contrary to both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. That's not nothing. Without the involvement of a number of members of this Chamber, a law had been passed that was contrary to the fundamental principles of the rule of law. That also leads me to ask the Minister to reflect on this situation. Did the then Secretary of State get the correct information from his OCW officials, or did he ignore the advice and give his own interpretation when he gave the judgment Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The submission of the novelle has been delayed until, among other things, the new service procedure has also been completed and the position of the Star has been clarified. In the previous debate on the Media Act, we discussed the indexation of the state contribution. I, too, am not getting away from talking about that. Was the Star outside, or is Star revenue falling within that indexation? Mrs Veldhoen, who worked it all out, then said: I accept the judgments of the judge. Star revenue is also indexed in accordance with the amendment adopted by the House of Representatives at the time. Now, however, we see in this bill that your article 2.148a only does that for 2020/21 but that you do not want to index Star revenue afterwards. You are explaining the Van Dam amendment to which it has been said that the necessary doubts can be raised. You do not provide the correct information in the explanatory memorandum. It wasn't a technical adjustment. It is therefore clear that I too am asking for clarification here. We are, I say in advance, not waiting for a cut in public service broadcasting. Mr. Chairman. Two reports on the governance of the Star have been published. I would like to hear again from the Minister the weighting of what he did and what he did not take over and what arguments he put forward. And then there's the second proposal. Others have also spoken about it. We're all getting to the same points. You will introduce the new service period and the Authority Consumer and Market ACM will be instructed to make a market impact analysis when applying for the new supply channels. We understand, probably under pressure from commercial broadcasters, that you are introducing this. But it seems to make the procedure more bureaucratic again and thus slow down the outcome of the procedure, while the deadlines for it are already far from being met. Six months stands for it, but in response to GroenLinks and the Labour Party you admit that this has not been achieved in recent years. You state in the reply that the new procedure will not lead to delays but to acceleration. I would very much like to clarify that. We can hardly imagine that. You indicate that the new service procedure leads to an increase in the regulatory burden among market participants, who, at the request of the ACM, then have to provide data for the execution of the market impact analysis. Well, then it's obvious that there's a delay, isn't there? I believe that a six-month application procedure has been fairly long, but to be fair if it were to remain in there. But for NPO Soul & Jazz this took two years and for NPO Knowledge one year. That is far too long if, as the coalition agreement says, we want public service broadcasting to be able to respond quickly to the new developments in the media landscape. This is also true because the media landscape is becoming increasingly international and therefore more flexibility is needed. Article 2.21 therefore also includes that experimental article. But that is of a temporary nature and cannot be accompanied by a direct application, because it is intended to determine whether there is market demand. Depending on the procedure, the experiment may be continued. Why not apply immediately and if it is clear that there is market demand right away? That could speed things up a lot. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate on public service broadcasting, we talked about new providers who want to enter the public service. Can the Minister give us the latest state of affairs? Who took the first hurdle? And are the current prospective broadcasters also within the order? Whoever followed the developments in recent weeks noticed two incidents around the aspirants who seem to have taken the first hurdle. The founder of Omroep BLART behaved very inappropriately in the studio of the EO; that promises something. And according to Pointer, a program by KRO-NCRV, the Dutch broadcaster Unheard published a 37-minute video report with 28 false and unproven claims about COVID-19. In his maiden speech last week, our colleague Ton Raven from the OSF pointed out the danger of disinformation. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister what guarantees the current system offers that disinformation will not be disseminated via public service broadcasting. We do not need a public order that spreads trumpian lies and thereby becomes unreliable. We need vigilance here, too. What means do the NPO and the Minister have at their disposal to ensure the rule of law standards and values in public service broadcasting? For example, can fines be awarded when broadcasters deliberately distribute disinformation? Do they have to correct that disinformation? The D66 Group would like to broaden the investigation into the security of journalists, which I was promised in the previous debate, with these aspects. Can the Minister promise us that? In all the diversity that characterises public service broadcasting, there is no room for willful lies. We therefore look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mr De Vries has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group, but Mr Van Kesteren has an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Pijlman talks about knowingly spreading lies and disinformation. He pleads for a heavy fine on that. Does Mr Pijlman assume that there are no lies or disinformation in public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u39	It's not really that interesting what I and you and even the Minister think as politicians. It's important what the public thinks. We have a public service channel and it has different tasks. The diversity of broadcasters makes it possible to express all kinds of views in the programming process. At the same time, the NOS and the NPO can provide as objective information as possible via the journal and journalistic products. You will also have read it; it is incredibly pleasing to see in the research of Motivation, which just came out this week, that confidence in that objective news of the NOS is extremely high. Two thirds of the Dutch appreciate that information and have the greatest confidence in it. Two programs jump out: the NOS Journal and the NOS Radio 1 Journal. It's a very broad investigation. Also, Nieuwsuur scores very high. Two journalists score the highest in that objectivity of the news. That's a huge compliment to that public service broadcaster. And then we will have to prepare ourselves for your great darling Unheard Holland, while I think that not everything in the Netherlands needs to be heard. But that's a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Van Kesteren, do you have a question about the bill? Otherwise, I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u41	Then I would like to reply to Mr Pijlman. That's in my opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u42	No, no, no. I would like to give you the floor for a question on the bill on the agenda, but this is not a policy debate on the media. So if you have a technical question about the bill, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u43	The bill deals with the influence of public broadcasting administrations on the journalistic norm and programming in the public system. My question to Mr Pijlman... You are right to talk about pluralism and the highlighting and highlighting of different positions. Experience has shown that public service broadcasting is one-sided, and that other views and opinions are called "lies"................................................................................................................................................................................................ Don't you agree that the public has the right to the widest possible information?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Pijlman, I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yeah, but that's a repeat of moves. So, the public also finds that the research of Motivaction is being objectively informed in our public order, better than through all the other media channels there are,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u46	We've heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u47	...and that's a big compliment. So you'll be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you. I'm going to end this discussion. Then we go to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. The current bill contains a number of amendments to the Media Act 2008 and was submitted on 25 September 2018. The draft law was then adopted unanimously by the House of Representatives on 9 April 2019. The novelle presented by the Minister was subsequently adopted unanimously in the Lower House on 9 June 2020. The novelle served to undo the additions to the bill by the amended amendment Aartsen/Van der Molen after the opinion of the Council of State. All in all, this legislative process has taken a remarkably long time; some of the previous speakers also recalled this. What our group is alarming is that the Media Act dates back to 2008. In the meantime we have not only been ten years further, but also the media landscape has changed dramatically. We ended up in a whole new media-era. New generations are, as a result of technological development, dealing very differently with the traditional media as we know it from the last century. It would therefore have been obvious if this minister had come up with a new, future-oriented media law. An attempt has therefore been made to do so by means of a previous amendment to the Media Act 2008 with a view to strengthening the future perspective of public service broadcasting on 7 December 2020. But, as is so typical of the approach of the Rutte cabinet, it has always been chosen to make an adjustment here and a change there. Kicking the can down the road, we call it. Mr. Chairman. According to our group, a major modernisation of Dutch media policy is urgently needed. In a democratic rule of law such as the Netherlands, an independent public media system is of great importance. After all, the media have an important controlling function within our society. In order to prevent the government from exerting influence on media content, there are constitutional safeguards for the media to operate independently and freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u50	I have a question for Mr De Vries about his party leader, Mr Otten. He said in an interview at the Forum for Democracy in his time, but perhaps he did not change his opinion that his political party was actually a media branch with a political branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u51	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u52	A media company with a political branch, indeed. I'll just say it right. Thanks for the correction. But how do you see independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u53	I think you're referring to an interview Mr Otten gave at the time when he just became a leader of the First Chamber on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. This independence must, of course, be guaranteed if you have an independent public service broadcaster in which you can take an objective approach as a broadcasting company. That has nothing to do with politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you. Mr. Janssen, any questions about the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u55	Sure, because I hear Mr Otten arguing for differentiation and that separation. That is what we are talking about here, including governance and how to organise it. But if we look at how boards etcetera should be organized, does Mr De Vries think that a media company should not have a political branch, in a government or otherwise, as it is now proposed, so that it should be separated and that it should not go together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u56	Now you make it a kind of plate of spaghetti by hustle everything together. I have never had the idea that a media company with a political branch is suddenly classified as a broadcasting organisation engaged in broadcasting programmes in the media. So I don't quite see your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u58	The Dutch Public Broadcasting is now a curious mix between the desire to have an independent public media system on the one hand and a multiform system with empty entry barriers on the other. This hybrid system may have worked in the last century, but in practice it is getting worse. What does the Cabinet do? It runs into all sorts of rules for appointment procedures and other details about the appointment of broadcasting directors. If we look at the quality of public service broadcasting, it is falling sharply. This is now also the subject of debate within public service broadcasting itself. Talkshows that are no longer about actual information, but create as much fuss as possible to be talkative and score ratings; ratings that are so badly needed to realize Star revenue, a sloppy 170 million a year. If we want to break this vicious circle, we should start by abolishing advertising in public service broadcasting. The programmers will then be freed from the ratings yoke and will be able to concentrate on content programmes, which add something to the existing commercial channels, and will also protect the viewer from annoying advertising interruptions. There is, of course, a considerable improvement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u59	I thought that was an interesting remark, but just that last sentence made me lose heart again. If the Otten Group feels that advertising no longer belongs to public service broadcasting, is it prepared to spend a little more money on public service broadcasting? That is what you need, if you want to create this kind of fantastic, independent programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u60	Exactly. I knew you'd come up with this, so I was prepared. No, on the contrary, I think that, in the face of not getting that advertising revenue, it should be said that there must be a major reorganisation, including the remuneration of the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u61	I know the Otten Group as good mathematicians. They also know that the reward is quite reasonable. I'd make so much money, too, but then you're gonna make it, of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u62	More than the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u63	Even if you add them up, the clean-up you're supposed to do isn't just about drivers. Then you will also have to fire many programmers, journalists and all kinds of people who are just makers. I cannot imagine that is the intention of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u64	I think a decent overhead has been created by the last ten years in this media landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u65	Last question. I would advise Mr De Vries to read the reports which have been published on this subject. If he then calculates, he will see that by abolishing the Star revenue you cannot achieve what he intends to achieve. If he has made that calculation and he comes to the conclusion: gosh, then we will have to compensate, is he prepared to actually pay more money or to support the spending of more money, to keep that strong public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u66	Finally, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u67	That will have to be demonstrated by the calculations. If it all goes as cheap as Mrs. Vos thinks it is going to be, is Mrs. Vos prepared to cut away parts where necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u68	Well, this was Mrs Vos' last question, so if she doesn't have another question of her own, I'd like to finish this little interruption debate. Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u69	We know the numbers and we can take a look at them together. Then we'll probably come to the same conclusion, which is that if you take off the Star revenue, we'll have to add more state contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'd like to take the invitation to look at that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u71	Well, look! It's gonna be fun. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr President, I will conclude. Our group very much hopes that, in setting up a new cabinet, media policy, which is so urgently needed for renewal, will receive the attention it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing the Media Act. Before I start, I must first tell you that I share this contribution on behalf of the CDA Group. Mr Atsma is ill and I wish him well from this place. You all know how involved he is in public service broadcasting. It is therefore an honour for me to speak on his behalf. The bill before us today contains several parts. I'll walk them down and start by modernising the appointment procedures in our public media system. Those who have been in the Upper House for a while remember the year 2016, with a strong discussion on this subject in the Senate. Because, yes, the minister of OCW is system responsible, but precisely in order to guarantee an independent public media system, politics and therefore the minister must have no direct or indirect influence on the appointments of directors and supervisors. The discussion at that time led to a clear broad Recognition Appointments and public media system. It is clear that the current appointment, suspension and dismissal procedures in the public media system comply in many respects with today's standards of governance and good governance. It is also clear that procedures can be tightened or formalised in some respects. That glove caught the government. The Christian Union and CDA groups support this approach. Following the advice of the Council of State at the request of the First Chamber, and I refer here to my colleague Mr Atsma with honor, it was also clear that the amendment in the Second Chamber, which saw that an administrative function or employment with a political party at national level was incompatible with administrative and supervisory functions in a broadcaster, was not effective. Moreover, it was, and this is a very solid note, not in line with the Constitution. For the lovers of the First Chamber a confirmation of the usefulness of this house, for those who do not yet see that utility: today you will notice anyway. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that our groups support the novella before us. Mr. Chairman. The second part I am considering is the modification of the procedure to be followed by the NPO in setting up a new or significantly modified supply channel. It is important that that procedure weighs whether the public value of this new or substantially modified channel outweighs the effects it has on the market. That procedure becomes more transparent, and the ACM has been widely seen in the field as the body best able to carry out a market impact analysis. Is this analysis also looking at the impact on the advertising market? What considerations are involved? Mr. Chairman. My third and final point is on the Foundation for Ether Advertising, known to all of us as Star. The changes in governance and the clarification in the position also follow logically from that report Reconnaissance Appointments and public media system. At the same time, it can be understood that the NPO looks with care at the declining advertising revenue. In December, we discussed the future of the public media system in this house. There, the Minister undertook to conduct an independent investigation into the possibilities and financial conditions under which public service broadcasting will be sustainably strengthened. A number of political groups, including those of CDA and Christian Union, highlighted in particular the funding and budgeting that should be involved. This is particularly important if the system is to be anchored in a sustainable way. In the light of today's debate on the amendment of Article 2,148 Media Act, this is an additional relevant commitment. There is certainly something to say that it is difficult to index Star revenue, at the same time this is the reading of the current article that the judge has used: both the state contribution and the Star revenue are included in the indexation. The government is canceling the Star revenue section of this bill. The question now is what financial impact the Minister sees in this respect for the NPO. Does this have material consequences? How does this relate to the 40 million previously released by this cabinet? In the light of the reduction in advertising that we discussed last December, it is particularly important that the long-term financing basis should also be designed in such a way that the NPO and the various broadcasters maintain sufficient financial strength. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The groups of Christian Union and CDA represent a pluralist public service. The present legislative proposal represents a slight improvement on several fronts in ensuring independence and strengthening a transparent process in case of firm change or a completely new supply channel. In this sense, we can support these legislative proposals. At the same time, there are a number of questions. We are, of course, looking forward to this Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mrs Bikker rightly says that the amendment is not included in the legislative proposal because it is not in conformity with the Constitution. But isn't it also true that the law should be enforced? Does Mrs Bikker think this is actually happening in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u77	Yes. I think we have beautiful public broadcasters who choose their own directors and organise their supervisory boards well. For the NPO, the rules have been firmly tightened since the previous debate we had in the Senate in 2016. I would advise Mr De Vries to look back on this, because at that time there was a strong debate on the new Media Act in the present time. At that time, these points were firmly understood, precisely because the impression arose that the Secretary of State might have too much influence at the time. Luckily, he didn't, and he didn't. It's legally secured, and I'm very happy about that. I am pleased that Mr Van Kesteren is helping me get that history back on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u78	Your opinion to Mr De Vries also extends to Mr Van Kesteren?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u79	I think he's just gonna take that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u80	Of course, a very nice story about how great public service broadcasting is and how the law is respected. But the amendment has not been tabled for nothing. There is therefore a concern in the People's Assembly about this. Can Mrs Bikker imagine that there is a debate in society as well as in Parliament about compliance with the law? However, public service broadcasting is left out in the execution. In practice, the intention of the legislation is not fully reflected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u81	But then Mr Van Kesteren will have to read the Council of State's opinion as carefully as possible. It has expressed itself very clearly at what times it is important that people are neutral and at what times it is right that we see that society is multicoloured, multiform. The Council of State has made it clear that it is precisely in public functions that people are neutral and that there should be no political link. That's important. In the case of neutral functions, we must be able to count on a person not to represent his party's interests, but to make a firm commitment to the function for which he has been asked for in the public interest. This is a different type of function. Get all the networks out there. We will find one more left together, and the other will find others more right. It is perfectly logical that people do, for example, the VVD's salary administration and are involved in the AVROTROS at the same time. I see no objection to that. I think it is particularly important that we be clear about this. It makes perfect sense since the emergence of public service broadcasting that, precisely because of the different interests that people have, they aim together in the deepest conviction that they have to set up a beautiful broadcasting society. There is absolutely no objection to that. It is different in terms of public functions, as the Council of State has rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr Van Kesteren, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u83	Another story, Mr. Chairman. It's obvious. The Council of State has beaten the picket poles and put the frameworks back in place. In this Chamber we must consider the feasibility and enforcement of the law. There are serious doubts about this from society and also from Parliament. It is our job in this Chamber to look into this and make a statement on it independently of political colour. In any case, we need to look into the reactions from society and from Parliament. I appeal to that, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u85	But I think we're going to keep going around a point that we explored extensively in December. I believe that broadcasting organizations can organise themselves as they wish in their deepest conviction. People who share that belief can join them. Politically, they often find instruments to express this in the interests of this society. As far as the NPO is concerned, you will always find me on your side if you think that the NPO should reflect the diversity of our society. But I don't share your criticism. I hear you always asking the question, but you do not make any concrete evidence of that, except that people are members of a political party. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you. Van Kesteren, any final comments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u87	Mrs Bikker invites me to give examples. The previous debate called for names and numbers. For example, the program M. The last two broadcasts have been spoken for a long time by the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren. Yesterday Mrs Sigrid Kaag spoke again in detail. These are things that I keep emphasising. Versatility and pluralism are simply not at issue. I'm gonna call attention to that. I know that you constantly refute that with "the pluralism of public service broadcasting is guaranteed." Well, I have serious doubts, and I'm not alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mrs Bikker, I would like to conclude by saying a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u89	I have such a beautiful picture of Mr. Van Kesteren, who sits with a notebook every night playing who's all on TV. I myself do not, so he definitely has a head start on me when we check which party colors have been at the table during the past week. I believe that our whole system is aimed at ensuring that the entire breadth of our society can be addressed. That is why we should not take one table as a measure, but the whole public order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u90	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
