ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security, 35925-VI: Adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Vos, who will also speak on behalf of Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Karimi has not yet been fully recovered, so I will speak today on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. As you know, we always do so with great pleasure. First, I'd like to say a few words about Ed van Thijn. Besides many other functions, he has also been a senator in this house. Ed van Thijn was a politician driven by what he experienced in his early childhood. As a child, you have to hide from soldiers who are ordered to hunt Jewish people. Scared to death in the closet you've been hiding in. Killed your family all the way. Van Thijn has worked in his adult life to fight against racism and for the fair treatment of those who had to flee. The PvdA is very grateful to him for his long commitment to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The images of people in need are still very clear in our eyes. People clinging to a plane and losing weight. Stuffed up in a sewer. To the bone-sucked kids. It is terrible that these human tragedies were also foreseeable. Or when it comes to people on the eastern border of Europe, who are cynically planned there by leaders who hope to destabilise our Europe. A reception crisis and a slow, slow response to a foreseeable flow of Afghan asylum seekers. And delays with the IND that could barely be caught up. These were the major subjects of the asylum policy of the outgoing Rutte III cabinet. For our group, the big question is whether the new government will respond in time to crises and whether the new government will introduce stable policies and funding for the IND and the COA. And whether the new government will uphold the rights of asylum seekers and promote a more realistic policy on labour migration. Today we are discussing the current status of Dutch migration policy, as expressed in this budget. In the context of self-reflection and the learning government, I will ask the Secretary of State for her assessment. What mistakes were made by the government? What can the next government do to prevent these mistakes? I will focus on the policy within the Netherlands as well as on the government's expenditure in the context of European migration policy. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with domestic policy. One of the most characteristic aspects of this in recent years is the so-called 'jojo policy'. In times of low influx of asylum, cuts are being made, which means there is insufficient capacity, and once inevitably a situation with higher migration occurs, there are deficits again. This is how crises arise that you could have prevented. This is very clear in the asylum shelter. The fascinating thing is that when you look at the CBS figures, there's been a steady flow all these years. On average, 25,000 people a year, and that includes the followers. Occasionally there is a peak due to war, a crisis or conflicts. The COA's capacity has been kept to a minimum for years. With a lack of flow from status holders to home homes, long waiting times for asylum decisions and an increased number of asylum applications from Afghans and Syrians, this quickly led to an overload of reception. Why did it have to come to the point where asylum seekers had to sleep on cots and chairs, at every conceivable location, and had to be moved again and again? Can you imagine what that's like for kids? To what extent does the Secretary of State consider that the current situation complies with the legal right of reception? In the present budget, another cut in COA is planned, of 128 million. When examining the proposal in the Lower House, the Secretary of State stated that it was because the budget was based on the Multi-Year Production Prognosis, the MPP, of February. She also said it would be adapted to the Spring Note. However, the calculation of the Secretary of State assumes that more than 11,000 status holders, who are currently awaiting their own residence, have passed through. How realistic is this calculation actually, also given the forecast that this would almost double the outflow by 2020? With this assumption, doesn't the government risk again a shortage of COA sites, if everything doesn't go according to plan? Very often things don't go according to plan. And why would you cut COA at all in these times? Is this not repeating the error that led to the current reception crisis? Shouldn't there be a general commitment to a larger capacity than what the estimated inflow requires? We'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The members of our two groups read that the budget for the COA's reserve capacity will be reduced from 21 million in 2021 to 14 million in 2025. Can the Secretary of State specify this decision? Surely reserve capacity must be sufficient to cope with situations such as these? It seems that the projections of the MPP lead to this yo-yo policy, which in turn leads to the miserable scenes in the shelter. Yet it was blindly relied on and saving is considered more important. Those who ultimately have to bear the consequences of this are the asylum seekers and the status holders. I therefore ask the Secretary of State: what should the new government pay attention to in order to avoid similar errors? And how can it be improved in the seemingly endless circle of under-assessing the influx and then overwhelmed by a predictable situation? Mr. Chairman. The criticism of the Jojo policy can also be made about the capacity to decide on asylum applications at the IND. Reductions in 2018 led to a lack of occupation and a accumulation of cases. The task force that was deployed to catch up with this delay worked with the necessary problems and is now being lifted. Again, the consequences were borne by asylum seekers, who regularly had to wait more than a year for a decision to be taken. How does the Secretary of State look back on this period? Can the Secretary of State give an analysis of the causes of these problems and how they can be prevented in the future? The IND is also being cut in the current budget, with a big leap down in 2023. Can the Secretary of State explain what these cuts are based on? Does this leave enough room for the inclusion of part of the task force staff in the IND's permanent staff file? That seems to us to be a good idea. And how will we prevent capacity shortages from re-emerging from 2023? Furthermore, the budget shows that 90% of asylum matters must be decided within the legal deadline. This is higher than the 79% achieved in 2020. Our groups therefore consider it important that the asylum seekers have a stick behind the door: the penalty payment if they do not decide on time. Can the Secretary of State explain why this penalty payment has not yet been re-implemented, now that the IND Task Force has eliminated most of the outstanding cases? On this last point, I would like to say: chapeau. And does the Secretary of State agree with our political groups that this penalty payment is necessary in order to balance the imbalance between government and asylum seekers? Mr. Chairman. We're going abroad as well as inland, by the way. People not only leave their homes because of the acute threat of war, but also because of poverty and hopelessness. We know that many undocumented people live in the Netherlands. They work in the cleaning, in the kitchens and in people's homes. They have no papers, but their children go to school in the Netherlands. With the lockdown we saw last year, they suddenly lost their jobs, their income and their rentals. But everything is better than going back to poverty in their own country. Can we imagine that you have to save yourself without a debit card, without a swipe, without a paper, without a health insurance, without any rights, with only cash money to walk down the street, because everything is better than in your motherland? Yet thousands of people choose such a life. This is where market forces work, the labour supply and demand market. Legal migration options would prevent a large part of this misery and meet the need for extra hands that we have in the Netherlands. The new coalition agreement contains a few sentences on circular migration. Very logical and I also think very desirable, given the need for labour and the need for a temporary safe haven for many people. The budget also states that work is to be done on the Bluecard. But why is the bluecard only for highly educated people? If we look at the vacancies in the Netherlands alone, it is mainly practical trained people who are asked. We have talked about this before, but has the Secretary of State taken initiatives to link the need for work with the development of the bluecard? Is she in contact with VNO-NCW about this? Mr. Chairman. Migration policy is by definition European policy. The Netherlands is not an island. We depend on the situation and choices in other Member States, but above all on European migration and asylum policy. We are very concerned about Frontex's actions. The agency has been under attack for a long time with allegations of human rights violations. Frontex is currently being brought before the Court of Justice by a Syrian family for a pushback. Nevertheless, the Agency's budget continues to grow and the Netherlands also contributes to it. To what extent are our contributions subject to conditions to ensure that the Netherlands does not contribute to human rights violations? In the opinion of the Secretary of State, were the problems unforeseen, or are they a symptom of a broader trend in European migration management? And the important thing is, how far do we go? I hope we will talk about this a lot later. Secondly, Belarus. In response to the influx of asylum seekers to Poland from Belarus, the Commission has announced measures. The registration period shall be extended from three to ten days to four weeks and the asylum procedure may be kept at that border for up to four months. These measures, in the opinion of our groups, constitute a serious breach of the right of access to asylum. What does the Secretary of State think of these measures as part of the principle of responsibility? Does the Secretary of State consider that pushing people back is a human rights violation? That 3 km no-go zone in Poland is European territory. Journalists and aid workers are not allowed to go there now. Can the Secretary of State speak out for the access of journalists and aid workers on that piece of European territory? Finally, the Asylum and Migration Pact. Our groups are deeply concerned about the proposal as it stands. Measures such as border procedures lead de facto to detention and cooperation with third countries also involve risks of human rights violations. A serious lack of guarantees becomes the norm. How does the Secretary of State view this development in the context of its term of office? How does the Secretary of State expect the Pact to be further developed? And how are the rights of asylum seekers guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. With this budget debate, we are also closing the Rutte III government period in this area. Our groups very much hope that the Secretary of State will be able to give a deep reflection on the developments we have discussed here, and that it will be able to help the new government to avoid any mistakes that have been made. And it is possible, realistic migration policy with respect for the rights of refugees. This requires empathy for people on the run, diplomatic talent to do business with countries of origin, a willingness to learn from history and a willingness to learn from the current state of science. Thank you, on behalf of my group's colleagues and the members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem. He will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, here's the thing. Only yesterday evening we received the reports from the migration and asylum management tables, which had been promised to me in an earlier debate with this Secretary of State. Unfortunately, I haven't had time to take a good look at that and assess it. It is a pity, therefore, that we can only look at this now and that I have not been able to give an opinion on it before. Maybe more information would have been needed. That is the first point I should like to make. But at least it's a good thing we have them now. Mr. Chairman. "The long-term pressure on the migration chain should be reduced." For example, the chapter on migration opens in the explanatory memorandum to this budget. If the Secretary of State really takes that seriously, then that chain will have to be broken quickly. In order to break the chain, it is necessary to close our borders for asylum migrants, for the many tens of thousands of lucky seekers who walk through our front door every year, many of whom come unscathed here parasiting on our prosperity and massively saddled our Dutch society with housing hardship, nuisance, crime, sexual harassment of women, Islamization, terror and benefit addiction. That is the long-term pressure of the migration chain on Dutch society, which should not only reduce, but also stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	I hear here again the same patsy politics that the PVV always does. Is the PVV aware of the actual figures, and does the PVV also have solutions to the problems that Mr Van Hattem is talking about and which cannot be linked to asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	Let me begin with the concept of'sinbokpolitics'. Perhaps Mrs Vos of the PvdA, who apparently also speaks on behalf of GroenLinks, should have a talk with the residents of those asylum centres about what they all experience: sexual harassment of women by all that asylum equipment that comes into their yard, that bothers people and harassing young girls on a riding stable. These are things that occur in practice. Ter Apel is being terrorized by these punks. That's not a patsy's policy. That's just the facts. It is the naming of the misery that the PvdA and GroenLinks policies have unleashed on the Netherlands for many years. First of all, Mr President. Then about the facts and the figures. If you listen to my speech in a moment, I have been registered for a long time, then you will hear the necessary figures relating to this, so you can rest assured. We're just going to make a firm sound to demonstrate this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	"Sunbokpolitics" is spreading a problem of a small number of people over a large number of people. We are talking about about about 350 people who are indeed very annoying and 25,000 people who are fleeing war and misery. That's patsy politics. And I speak out against that. It's very dangerous. I've seen it in Indonesia, for example. You don't have to go back that far in history. The Chinese were always accused of all kinds of evil and when at some point there was a power vacuum in 1998, a lot of Chinese people were brutally murdered as a result of scapegoat politics. That's what you do if you keep repeating that a small number of people are responsible for all the problems in the Netherlands. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	Yeah, I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	I don't have a question. I just want to make a statement. This is making me very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u13	I just want to point out that, if you look at other policy areas, the PvdA points to scapegoats in this society as well, but we are not going to talk about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u14	The PvdA is working to find solutions to housing market problems. That's what my colleague Ferd Crone is going to talk about later. Those are real solutions to the problems that we do have in the housing market, but they are not due to a number of refugees that we are rightly accepting because of the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u15	I do not hear a question for the second time, so I suggest that Mr Van Hattem continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u16	The PvdA is also not the one who brings the solution, but the cause of the problem, and that has been for about 50 years by encouraging mass immigration all these years. That is precisely my next point, because according to this year's report by the University of Amsterdam, the Dutch taxpayer "Great care state: The impact of immigration on public finances" has already had to cough up EUR 400 billion net over the period 1995-2019 for the cost of mass immigration. According to the forecast, this report will add a further EUR 600 billion to this amount by 2040. The Dutchman can pay himself carefully to become a minority in his own country. According to the latest forecasts of the CBS, we are heading towards 20 million inhabitants with an increase mainly due to migration. The Netherlands will soon become an even more overcrowded country. But instead of breaking the chains of this migration chain, the missionary and the new cabinet maintain and even promote the chain reaction of migration. The heading in the budget 'Less nuisance, more return' is purely hollow words. After all, the Netherlands is getting more asylum shelters with more nuisance. The Secretary of State is now forcing municipalities to take asylum places. Even local democracy is passed hard with a national instruction. Gorinchem, Enschede, Venray, Alkmaar, the Rotterdam region and possibly even more places are now split into the stomach by decree of VVD Demissionary Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. Apparently, it is easier for this Secretary of State to force these municipalities to their knees than to enter into a conversation with the Moroccan ambassador to take back his own nationals. Can the State Secretary justify whether there is at all a legal basis for such a direction that municipalities exist? Where is this formally regulated and what legal remedies can be used by residents, and possibly also by local administrators, against this order of virtue? I quote what is stated in the letter of inquiry as the main basis for the designation: 'The unacceptable risk that the Dutch State will not be able to comply with the EU and international law obligation to provide decent reception conditions to asylum seekers'. The rights of our own citizens and our local democracy are therefore overruled by this Secretary of State for the sake of the Eurocratic force and the supranational treaties. What specific obligations are referred to here? How is it determined that there is an "unacceptable risk"? On the basis of which criteria and by which authority? What is the measure of "human worth"? Should it be the hotel arrangement or luxury cruise ships that are now being made available to asylum seekers? Why this panicky grievance of the Secretary of State, where she's gonna throw clues so hard? Is she afraid to end up in prison in Denmark, just like her former colleague, for failing to comply with European and international requirements? 'Cause that's the crazy reality. Last week, the Danish former Minister of Immigration, Inger Støjberg, was sentenced to no less than two months in prison for acting in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, by taking child brides in separate asylum centres. A minister who deals with child marriages, disgusting Islamic perversions, in the asylum industry can therefore count on prison sentences for the ECHR. It's the world upside down. But is it sometimes also the fear of this Secretary of State that by failing to give the asylum seekers enough care, she herself can trade in her comfortable accommodation for a stay in prison under lock and key? Is it because of that EHRM sword of Damocles that she saddles the inhabitants of our congregations with a state order with an asylum invasion? And why is the order addressed precisely to those municipalities, and not to places like Bloemendaal, Aerdenhout or other villa enclaves full of VVD and D66-voting fake liberals? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The case of the Danish former minister is not on its own. In Italy, former Interior Minister Salvini is brought to justice because, quite rightly, he did not allow a ship with lucky seekers to dock on Lampedusa. This is referred to as "kidnapping" and is even likely to result in a maximum prison sentence of 15 years. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she sees these developments in relation to the Dutch immigration policy? Can we please take action against the asylum invasion and Islamisation, or can we just roll out the red carpet under threat from the legal jihad of the EU and the ECHR? And what does this mean for the Marrakesh United Nations Migration Pact? This was also consistently presented as non-legally binding, but will it not be revenged in the same way as an international legal obligation? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then the hollow phrase from the budget about more return. The crucial question is: how? 'Cause that doesn't make any sense at all. There are hardly any concrete plans and the present numbers of people returning are totally marginal. At the most, there has been a bit of a fuss about constructive dialogue, while the intended interlocutor continues to turn his back on it. The new coalition agreement does not provide an adequate solution for this either, but is and remains a honey pot for even more lucky seekers. So the countries that have to take back these lucky seekers, such as Morocco, are not even prepared to receive this Secretary of State. Only 140 Moroccans have been forced to leave throughout 2020. That's a drop on a glowing hot plate. What are we supposed to expect now? The budget also offers a completely unbelievable story about commitment on borders. The only right commitment to these borders is to completely close those borders to the asylum invasion, but instead we read anointing words about more capacity for border management. That is not the control of our borders, but the facilitation at the border of an even more extensive reception committee for mass immigration. It also states: "The Netherlands wants to improve border control so that border authorities can act in a timely and effective manner, for example in the event of unexpected situations (such as during the corona pandemic) or increased influx of irregular immigration." This increased influx has been going on for many months now. So why hasn't the additional border control been deployed? How much larger does the asylum system need to be before our borders are effectively controlled? Does this border control effectively reduce this flow of migrants? What specific measures does the Secretary of State attach to this intention? Or are they just meaningless statements? Just as meaningless as the empty words of VVD spokesperson Bente Becker last year before the elections that in an asylum crisis the border should close for migrants. Where's that closed line now? Or is this cheap VVD picker trick? I'd like a reaction and a closed border. Mr. Chairman. What is the present budget worth at all? According to the explanatory memorandum, the figures are based on the total asylum inflow for 2021 of 18,000. This has already turned out to be much higher. The House of Representatives has also asked for this. In response, the State Secretary indicates that the effects of a higher asylum influx are taken into account in a budget change. But now that it is already clear in advance that this asylum flow is significantly higher, there is in fact a budget proposal that is of zero and no value in terms of feasibility. Can the Secretary of State explain what the effects will be of this increased asylum influx and whether it is already clear what to expect in the event of a budget change? To mention a specific point: On page 29 of the explanatory memorandum, it reads: "ODA (Official development assistance) allocating first-year asylum reception. The MPP leads to a lower inflow of asylum than estimated. This creates a windfall in the asylum shelter at the COA. Part of this windfall concerns costs for the first-year asylum shelter that JenV has to return to the ODA budget of BHOS." So that's for development cooperation. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the increased influx means for this windfall? Will it still be acclaimed in the development aid industry? To make things even worse, according to the figures in this budget, the asylum influx will not go down in the coming years, but will go up and remain high, at least until 2026, with an asylum influx of 31,750 per year. This means that the Secretary of State, with this policy, is not at all committed to reducing the influx of asylum. The sluice doors of mass immigration remain open under VVD control, while our country is drowning. How is this possible, I ask the Secretary of State. Why is there no effort to reduce this influx of asylum? Does this VVD cabinet replace all of the Netherlands with asylum migrants? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. This phenomenon of replacement migration is often dismissed as a gut feeling. But what does the explanatory statement say under the heading of regular migration? "Work migration is a partial solution to curb ageing in the Netherlands and respond to shortages in our labour market and from a migration perspective there are opportunities for family migrants and status holders." In other words: replacement migration is not a gut feeling, but just cabinet policy. In theory, therefore, asylum migrants are used to replace our ageing population, but in practice, large groups of asylum migrants disappear directly into the welfare arrangement of our social services, massively and often lifelong in the assistance. In particular, Somali asylum migrants are making the most of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u17	I hear Mr Van Hattem being very critical about the part of regular migration, labour migration in the budget. I have just looked it up: in his province of North Brabant the number of vacancies is increasing and increasing. I am very curious to see how the PVV intends to solve the open job vacancies in the Netherlands at the moment by keeping the borders closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u18	At least not with what is being said here, so to use family migrants and status holders for this. Because most of the groups that come here, as I just said, are going to be on welfare for years. That's not the qualified staff required in those vacancies. There are no welders, shipbuilders or electricians, quite the contrary. This doesn't solve the problem. What we see in labour migration, especially in Brabant, is that everywhere there are XXL block boxes where at most some boxes are placed, but which adds absolutely nothing to our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u19	I hear a lot of "no, no, no," and I get that, because that's easier than "well, well, well." But then I'm curious. Suppose, for example, the people of ASML from Veldhoven come to Mr Van Hattem and say: we really need to be able to promote knowledge migration. What does he say, as a member of the Provincial States and also as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u20	I would like to leave my other role out of the discussion here. What ASML is asking for qualified personnel are not all those lucky seekers who are now massively entering Ter Apel, Cranendonck and all those other asylum centres with expensive cell phones at their ears and a waiting attitude of "come on, let the welfare fleet enter." That's the point. That's not the staff that ASML needs. That requires very specifically trained staff. So this isn't gonna fix it. My second question would then be: what does D66 expect of all those asylum migrants coming in here? Are they immediately one-on-one available for such highly specified companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u21	I shall have Mrs Stienen try to answer your question one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u22	I like to summarize what I hear and check with Mr. Van Hattem if I understood correctly. For highly educated people who, for example, come from India and have an IT specialization, the boundaries are allowed to be ajar, but not for people who come to work in the greenhouses or fill jobs in any other way. Then I hear a selectivity from the PVV. That's okay, but it's nice to see that then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u23	You put words in my mouth that I didn't use. I have not indicated at all which groups I may or may not let in. I am merely saying what we have here is a possible solution to the problem of the labour market and the ageing population, in order to fill it with status holders and followers and all the other lucky seekers. That doesn't solve the problem, that's what I'm seeing here. Mrs Stienen is then going to have a completely different economic debate on which qualified professions can or cannot enter. That's a whole different story and a whole different discussion. State policy is also selective in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u24	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u25	I was talking about those Somali asylum migrants. In the meantime, they're getting massively assigned our homes and amenities. If they are replacing anything from the ageing population, then it is the homes of our elderly people that are released, which do not go to Dutch families, but to such happiness seekers. This does not fill labour market deficits, but increases housing market deficits. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she sees these opportunities for family migrants and status holders? We are not talking about small numbers here. Between 2016 and 2020, the sum of some 185,000 family migrants and followers were brought in here by the Rutte cabinet, in fact the size of a rather large city. Can it also link a performance indicator to this? And as far as the labour market is concerned, what added value do migrant workers really have for our economy if they find embellishment in an XXL distribution centre, as I said, to move a few boxes there? Can the Secretary of State indicate when benefiting migrant workers, who are already here, will be employed instead of bringing in more migrant workers? Moreover, the government's use of this labour migration as a replacement migration is based on hot air. In the overview of policy investigations in this budget about the impact of migration on society, I quote: "at present, it is not sufficiently clear what the demographic, economic, social impact of migration is on Dutch society, which makes a contribution to different types of migrants and how migration responds to needs." In short, the cabinet brings in entire tribes, under the guise of value for the labour market, but nothing is known about this contribution and impact. The implementation of mass immigration is therefore an end in itself for this cabinet. Many of our citizens notice daily what the terrible negative impact of mass immigration on our society is, as they see themselves becoming more and more minority in their own country, in neighbourhoods populated by the majority of immigrants, where the speaker of the azan from the minaret screams loudly over the neighborhood and headscarves and burqas dominate the street view. The budget chapters indicate that the Ministry of JenV supports municipalities with the housing of large status holders families. What does that mean in practice? Extra large properties that are allocated with priority or urgency, with all the impact that this has on Dutch people, who are still on the waiting list for a rental house. Does the Secretary of State also consider these forms of impact of migration or is it blinded by the open border issue? I'd like a response. Another policy study also reveals a sensitive issue. On page 244 there is a reference to return, I quote: "The investigations within this theme all contribute to gaining more insight into achieving the sub-target independent return above forced departure. A sub-objective within the budget article is to stimulate self-departure. This is facilitated and supported by the DT&V (Service Return and Departure) but mainly by the IOM (International Organisation for Migration) and NGOs. Despite previous investigations, there is still insufficient insight into what can be said about its effectiveness and efficiency, and thus automatically the main objective, namely to combat illegal residence." In addition, on page 246 it is stated that illegal residence is a blind spot. The documents show that the cabinet has no idea at all about the number of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands. So self-employed return doesn't work for a second. Only the activist NGOs and the mass immigration adepts of the IOM benefit from this. Can the Secretary of State indicate when she will stop this fact-free hug policy, turn the subsidy tap into these activist clubs and continue packing on forced departure? Or does it keep mopping with the subsidy tap open? I'd like a response. What is more, what are we doing with this asylum flow of potential Islamic terrorists? Europol indicates that there are insufficient interpreters who speak the local languages to properly monitor the asylum invasion from Afghanistan. Meanwhile, more than 3,000 of the 40,000 Afghans to be redistributed are allocated to the Netherlands by Commissioner Johansson. How can the VVD Secretary of State agree to this? The documents accompanying this budget also show that the cabinet has no idea whether there are former Taliban supporters among the Afghan asylum migrants. If so, according to this cabinet, they can obtain the 1F status, the status of war criminal. But that doesn't mean anything. None of the Syrian asylum migrants in the Netherlands who have been granted this 1F status since 2007 have been forced to leave. Under the leadership of the VVD, the Netherlands remains a shelter, a safe space for terrorists and war criminals. Or should we establish that the VVD no longer has any problem with Islamic terrorists, now that it has the convicted former Hofstadgroepterorist Soumaya S. in its highest ranks? She even came to the First Chamber with a VVD senator and flew with her to the NATO assembly in Rome. Perhaps this Hofstad group terrorist is not deradicalized, but the VVD is completely radicalized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u26	I'd still like to object. I hear colleague Van Hattem implicitly accuse a Member of Parliament of crimes for which a family member has been convicted to some extent. I don't think that's how it works in the Dutch rule of law. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u27	Then Mrs Stienen did not listen to me, because I did not mention a Member of Parliament. I'm talking about the condemned family member, Soumaya Sahla, who walks around in the VVD and here in the First Chamber just came to have coffee with a then VVD senator and also flew to Rome. That's what I'm talking about. She's being deployed by the VVD. The VVD is completely radicalized, by putting a convicted Hofstad group terrorist in such a position and simply letting him walk in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u28	Okay, well, I've listened carefully now that he's repeated it for me. Maybe I did listen between the lines. But how does it actually work in a rule of law according to Mr. Van Hattem? You've done something you've been punished for. That's what you did your time for. Then you go back to society. Are you guilty forever because you've done something that was criminal and you've been convicted of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u29	We have a situation in which we are dealing with the Hofstad group. That's an organization that my party leader Geert Wilders just wanted dead and that was partly responsible for the death of Theo van Gogh, who was stabbed in the street, stabbed to death by these punks. Someone who comes here from these circles, walks in here and just pretends nothing happened: that is unacceptable and unacceptable. If D66 makes that right, she's on the wrong track herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u30	Let me be clear: we, my group, D66, find it appalling that Geert Wilders has been living under these conditions for seventeen years, perhaps longer. I saw a tweet: I've been in lockdown for 17 years. That is something we must always express our opinion on. If Erdogan says something nasty about Wilders, I, as the delegation leader of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, am climbing straight into the pen on behalf of the delegation to protest against it. I can also very well imagine that people have concerns about certain kinds of behavior. But if people were convicted 17 years ago, punished, served time and improved their lives, do they deserve a second chance? Or can the PVV decide who is or is not present here in the rule of law? I'm gonna stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u31	We are not talking about bicycle theft, we are talking about a crime that affects the nature of our democracy. I'll leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. While this Secretary of State is opening new asylum shelters with the COA on the assembly line, people living in these places are extremely concerned, and rightly so. The horrors experienced by the inhabitants of Ter Apel, for example, with the many abuses of asylum equipment, speak volumes. Not for nothing was there an action by bus drivers this week, who are sick of this asylum aggression. Not only in Ter Apel, but also in Cranendonck, Grave, Overloon and Oisterwijk, for example, with all kinds of aggression, violence, theft and intimidation and other crime, everything runs wild. Recently I spoke with our Second Chamber Chairman Geert Wilders with the neighbors of the former azc in the Autotron in Rosmalen. They went through hell in 2015 and 2016, in particular sexual harassment for women was one of the plagues with which the asylum scum plagued their living environment. However, reports of this were not consistently registered by the police and the municipality and are now, five years later, no longer to be found in the systems. Because this archiving is missing, COA and the municipality now claim that it was "very positive" at the time, with a blind spot for the nuisance. How can I ask the Secretary of State? Why are such serious offences and offences not registered and kept? What kind of disinformation is this from the government? Isn't this fake news from the government itself, by giving this a positive spin? Now there is a danger of a new asylum shelter being established at the Autotron and the people living in it are terrified of having to go through the same misery as they did at the time. A righteous fear. The budget documents show that in 2020 a total of 2,272 foreigners stayed in the COA shelter who were suspected of a crime and even 2,805 in 2019. Those alone are crimes, so without any other inconvenience. Prior to the resignation of Secretary of State Harbers in 2019 because of asylum seekers' hidden crime figures, Prime Minister Rutte very firmly said that asylum seekers who are guilty of serious crimes such as Zoef de Haas should leave the country. Rutte's empty words again. With thousands of asylum criminals in the shelter, he's better off getting his ass kicked himself. How can the Secretary of State justify this? When does the scum like Zoef de Haas leave the country? To return to the example of the Autotron in Rosmalen, in the field of asylum reception, the COA wants to arrange security itself through a security company. But outside the field they have no power to act. So if a group of aggressive asylum seekers in a nearby tunnel harassing young women on their bikes, the authority is not in any fields or roads. All police stations in the immediate vicinity have long been cut off and the police only have a few police cars, which must also be used throughout the vast municipality and region. That often makes it unworkable for the police to record, for example, a burglary report on the spot, while they are called away again for other reports. With such an asylum shelter, full of hundreds of young men who are often wound up, it will get much worse. The documents show that by 2020, as much as 77% of the asylum influx of the male sex was, despite some fine talk by the COA about "possible care of families." For example, the luxury hotel in Utrecht hopes that asylum will consume on families, but in view of these figures they can rely on single men. In short, as far as the PVV is concerned, there will be no asylum centres at all. But now that this is still the case, what will the Secretary of State for Justice and Security do to improve security around these asylum shelters? Is there gonna be more cops available? Will asylum reception be provided by default with a number of special investigators who are allowed to intervene outside the area and will notifications be properly recorded and kept? And not only crime reports, but also other nuisance reports? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We must close the borders for lucky seekers, stop allowing asylum migrants, but only accept them in our own region. For example, the Arab wave states can mean a little more for countries in their region. In 2020, 32 asylum permits were granted by Saudi Arabia, 121 by the United Arab Emirates and 40 by Kuwait. Those are numbers that are already found in one neighborhood in the Netherlands, so to speak. Finally, the question to the Secretary of State: when will the reception in their own region be effectively made instead of letting the Netherlands become a region of Africa and Arab countries via regional management tables? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you. Mrs. Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u33	I listen to the story and, of course, I recognize a lot of previous input from Mr Van Hattem. I'm curious; I'm hesitant, but I'm just going to say this. Suppose Mr. Van Hattem was Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. What would the Netherlands look like? Can he give us an example? Is that the Netherlands of the 1950s, where women were unable to act until 1956? What is Mr Van Hattem's dream for the Netherlands? Describe it to me. He lives in Vinkel, I was just looking up. What does Vinkel look like in the worldview of Mr Van Hattem in 2021? Is that only with white men who go to church every Sunday and mother the woman who sits home with eight children? What's that? I just can't imagine what that world would look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u34	A clear question. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u35	I don't know any white men. I know "white men," but that's another discussion. Mrs Stienen is talking about Vinkel, but it is a coincidence that one of the places where the COA now has plans for housing its asylum emergency care. First of all, if I were to play the role of Secretary of State, I would not establish an asylum-seekers' centre there, nor anywhere else in the country. No, we would just close the borders, guard our own borders again and make asylum migration stop completely. We were going to organise the shelter in their own region, so that there is also a fairer system. The people who really have to flee can then be taken directly and in their own region. Then not only the profiteers, who come here by six, seven or eight safe countries, and who happen to be able to bribe a few smugglers. They get everything here, they get all the comforts and they can spend the rest of their lives on welfare. It'll be stopped. At least you'll have a fairer system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mrs Stienen, I fear that you will not get the answer you would like to hear, but try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u37	No, but I also understand that there is a very small exception for ASML to get people from India to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u38	I didn't talk about ASML, so I'm not gonna let you put those words in my mouth. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State. Last year, on Christmas Day, Barbara Oomen and Sara Miellet of the Cities of Refuge, a research programme of Utrecht University, published an opinion article in Trouw. In this article they shared the findings of their research, namely that there was now a coalition of the willing of 184 municipalities, together with nearly 12 million inhabitants, for the care of 500 children from Moria in Greece. That is a sign of solidarity and humanity. My group would like to hear what is happening now with the commitments concerning the reception of these children and the situation for refugees in the camps on the Greek islands. We are now a year ahead and today we are discussing the migration part of the budget of Justice and Security, at the moment when we have already been able to read the coalition agreement and not yet know who will be responsible for asylum and migration policy in the new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In a recent letter of fire, RefugeeWork Netherlands states that the humanitarian lower limit has been reached. Refugees are received in halls and tents in the Netherlands under unacceptable conditions. There is no privacy, there is no peace, and no exception can be made for vulnerable refugees. This situation has led the Secretary of State to designate a number of municipalities last week to be obliged to receive asylum seekers. My group asks the Secretary of State if this situation could have been avoided. And how much room is there in the current budget to ensure better long-term planning by 2022? D66 considers it important for the cabinet to make serious efforts to maintain support for the reception of people fleeing war and violence, or for human rights violations or persecution for their political convictions or orientation. We see that in 2022 the outgoing cabinet is holding on to more return to countries of origin and transit of foreigners whose asylum application has been rejected. The D66 Group supports this commitment. Of course, my group is also aware of the unrest in host communities about temporary and more permanent reception of asylum seekers and status holders. The situation for residents around Ter Apel is more than worrying. It is terrible to see that a relatively small group of people cause so much insecurity, in Ter Apel and also in shelters in other places in the country. In June of this year, a follow-up study on nuisance asylum seekers was published. This report contains figures from 2020. Are there any more recent figures? And, according to this report, has 27,500 asylum seekers changed the group of the 350 heaviest nuisances per month? Are we talking about averages or the same people? And what will the Secretary of State do with the recommendations of this report? However, my group believes that we should not lump together all the safe people involved in the nuisance debate and the return debate. People from Morocco, for example, may also have political reasons to apply for asylum. In the Second Chamber debate on this budget, the State Secretary spoke about possible other notification centres. This could alleviate the situation in Ter Apel. Could the Secretary of State also explain this in this Chamber? Furthermore, my group welcomes the plans for regular labour migration and the implementation of a new EU Blue Card Directive. We assume that we will discuss this in detail with the Secretary of State in the new cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group has expressed many concerns about the implementation problems in the IND. Therefore, my group agrees with the explanatory statement that the IND would be able to decide again by the end of 2021 within the legal deadline. We ask whether this ambition has been achieved. In the explanatory statement we also read fine words about the follow-up to the screening of the asylum chain. But what does this mean for the approach in 2022? What additional investments are needed for this? And are there sufficient qualified people who can carry out this assignment? Can the Secretary of State indicate what steps it has taken to prevent further serious delays in the future? My group is concerned about the lack of progress in the European Asylum and Migration Pact. This does not help to combat inhumane situations at the borders of the European Union, whether on the Greek islands or on the border between Belarus and Poland. In my group's view, this could have been avoided if there had been a common EU asylum policy focusing on solidarity, with proper reception at the border and clear procedures for asylum applications. How does the Secretary of State view this? Can the Secretary of State also indicate how she sees the Commission's proposal for temporary asylum and return procedures in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland? My group is concerned that this creates an unnecessary precedent, which will create a legal crisis within the European Union rather than a migration crisis. And what does the Secretary of State, as EU Member States and Frontex, do about pushbacks and non-compliance with international conventions and EU agreements? Mr Vos also spoke on behalf of the PvdA and GroenLinks. My group would also like to hear what the Netherlands is doing to support these border Member States in a humane reception for refugees. My group is also concerned about the position of NGOs and aid workers who want to support refugees on the ground and journalists who want to report on these inhuman situations. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr. Chairman. It's Christmas in four days. We're in a lockdown here. That's hard on everyone. Many of us have the privilege of spending that time in a warm house, with sufficient means to eat with family and friends and to celebrate the thought of solidarity and humanity. That is the greatest wish for many people who have fled to the Netherlands, for their children and themselves. A home to be with each other. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the many staff members within the government, the COA and the IND, in all those centres, and the volunteers of all the organisations involved who are working to make refugees and status holders feel something of a warm welcome in the Netherlands in the coming difficult times. My group would also like to hear the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. The budget. Let us begin with the positive aspects of the Justice and Security budget. There's gonna be a lot more money to fight undermining. This budget also provides for compensation, for example, for entrepreneurs whose shops have been plagued by the aggressive virus attacks during the coronarelles. Unfortunately, however, there are also many negative aspects to this budget. Above all, my group has major problems with what government after government considers to be a force of nature: immigration. For this other natural force, climate change, billions, billions and billions are earmarked. But when it comes to immigration, The Hague is in the pockets. For the umpteenth time. The voter must keep his mouth shut, because VVD, CDA and D66 and Christian Union want more and more immigration. The same applies, of course, to the opposition parties PvdA and GroenLinks. The Dutch people have checked. All this is underlined in a poll by Kantar among the Dutch population, which shows that people who do not want open borders at all. This study shows that more than two thirds of Dutch people want to limit immigration. And more than 90% believe that there is no room at all for further population growth, which, we know, is caused almost exclusively by migration. The population therefore seems to know very well what is good for the Netherlands. It seems logical to me to listen to this and to act on it, as many of these aforementioned parties always promise to do during the elections, not least the VVD. But the opposite is true. Surprise. This year, it is estimated that the asylum influx will reach over 40,000 people. Up to and including week 40 of this year, only 2,780 foreigners have returned to their country of origin. This is an absolutely laughable result, although it is actually not very funny, especially in view of the fact that a large proportion of asylum seekers come from safe countries. They do not have any chance of having a residence status and therefore have to go back. And this isn't happening. The back door of our asylum chain is locked. Illegals can also stay here without being put in the way of a strawbreed. In fact, they get spacious housing in cities where the housing shortage is high, and can endure endlessly. The influx of safelanders without the possibility of asylum and predominantly male, young asylum seekers has disastrous consequences. Look at the bus drivers in Ter Apel, who are forced to resign because of intimidation and violence by these illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. Look at the Wallen area in Amsterdam, where policemen play a sort of revolving door game with people who come to the city centre by bus and are picked up with pockets full of phones and wallets. They're going into the chain, they're going into the process, they're gonna be inside for a while, and the next day, the same people are gonna be arrested again. And it's not that Amsterdam can't use its police better. Instead of tackling this problem, we are cutting back on the asylum chain. The IND and the COA are getting less to spend, while the current asylum crisis is expected to be so we can call it "continuing" towards 2022. This is weird. At the same time, the front door will be opened even more widely, municipalities will be obliged to take in asylum seekers and there will be more reception places, more asylum seekers and more problems in our society. In short, it's absolute madness. This can't be happening anymore. The absorption capacity of the Netherlands has long been achieved. The current system has become totally unsustainable. It is important for everyone to drastically undo the asylum chain. I would like to quote the Secretary of State himself in this light. "We can only protect those who are entitled to our protection and asylum if we protect the asylum system itself." That's a very sensible hunch. It is precisely for the legitimate asylum seekers themselves that the system must be put on hold and action must be taken. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State has little ambition to realise her vision. Across the street, my fellow party member Eerdmans has submitted an excellent plan to undo that asylum chain. Think of solutions such as starting procedures in the region, and think of the Danish immigration model. The written response received yesterday by the Secretary of State can be summarized as: nice idea; we do nothing else. The Secretary of State prefers to wait for handles and other paper tigers from the European Commission, rather than pulling her own hands out of this problem and finally making a decisive contribution to it. There is no initiative and the Secretary of State does not stand up for the interests of our Dutch people, but for those of asylum seekers, lucky seekers, and of course of Europe. It fits in with the thinking of the traditional power parties that, against the will of the vast majority of the Dutch population, want to bring half the world here. After all, the governing class itself does not suffer from it in their neighborhoods, in their schools and in their jobs, we shall say. Mr President, allow me a side-step. The people in Afghanistan, which our country has made agreements with, are people who are really at risk and who have stuck their necks out for the Netherlands and to whom we have made a promise. They have been abandoned and put in danger by Bijleveld, Kaag and Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. The asylum chain and the policy of this Secretary of State are a disaster for both the Netherlands and the legitimate seeker, and this budget is helping us out of the rain. We call on the government to develop a sound action plan to reduce the influx of asylum and to fully reduce autonomy across our borders. We are also asking the government to give municipalities more financial resources in this budget in the reception and handling of the asylum burden. There's a million for it now. I don't have it in my bank account, but in this context, of course, 1 million is a real pain in the ass now that the problems are so big. It really should be a minimum of EUR 5 million per year in structural terms to assist municipalities in this asylum crisis. Finally, illegal residence in the Netherlands must at last become a criminal offence. I would like to respond to these three steps, which are much needed and should have been taken yesterday, especially if we are in favour of a humane, sustainable and widely supported asylum policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u44	The discussion of this bill will continue this afternoon.
