ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u1	We shall begin with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. Welcome to the Secretary of State. Welcome to all my colleagues. There's nineteen of them, so we're gonna start soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll start with a question and a call to the Secretary of State. We have seen today that inflation is going through the roof. Prices increased by 5.6% in November. Since Rutte made the purchasing power vows in September, they've evaporated a hundred times. It was nothing, but millions of people are coming down hard and hard. Millions of Dutch people are going to get even harder than they already have. So that means getting around even harder, when the rent and groceries won't be able to pay at all. This could be the neckbeat for so many families and entrepreneurs. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix this? What is he going to do to make sure that Dutch people don't get any further away? What's he gonna do to fix this? Where is your purchasing power recovery plan? I'll ask the Secretary of State. I'd like a response today, but by next Thursday at the latest. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, I started my speech with the conclusion that our country is having a hard time, that the consequences of the corona crisis are chopping hard on everyone. And now, a year later, it's only gotten worse. We're tired. The tensions are more palpable in society than ever before. Families are falling apart. All of a sudden, friends are standing opposite each other. At work, on the street, you can feel it everywhere. The aggression in traffic, in the supermarket, online. Corona has taken control of our society. But it would be too easy to think it's only because of corona. When you talk to people, you notice there's more to it. That it is above all the years of pent-up anger of not being heard. From the discontent towards the government and politics, which is often no longer there for these people. Pim Fortuyn warned about it 20 years ago. A peat fire is raging in our society, he said, and we must do everything we can to prevent it from turning into a burning fire. He was right, but he wasn't listening. And look at today's anger. Look at the consequences of ignoring and putting away discontent for years. There's hardly any confidence in politics, hardly any confidence in government. So many people who are sick of it, and say they're wrong. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch see that they are losing their country. Mass immigration, to Brussels, to climate madness, to woke madness, to gender genealogy, you name it. And they can't say anything about it, because everything has to be broken. Take something as beautiful as the Sinterklaas party. It's December 5th this weekend. A few years ago, you couldn't walk into a store on the street or you were laughed at by a black guy. In a supermarket, everywhere cozy songs, sintering classrooms and pies. Pepper nuts and warm cosiness everywhere. And look at you now. You really need to find a way to run into it. The Bijenkorf with the once so beautiful windows has banished Black Piet. The Jumbo has banished Black Piet. Online, he's almost nowhere to be found. Sinterklaas, if you see him anywhere, whether or not he's wearing a bulletproof vest, so it's all on his own. And if you see a grown man anywhere, they'll see a corpse pale with a couple of sweeps. Not exactly the appearance of a hard alarm, a nice signal. And we can't say anything about it, 'cause then you're a racist. Nowadays soot is also a race. It's also this kind of thing that annoys people. Everything is being taken away and it goes on and on, while we know that social discontent combined with the taking away of financial security is a toxic cocktail. And yet it keeps going on and on. Nevertheless, the cabinet deliberately continues to make the wrong choices. The policy gives the feeling that the ordinary man and woman are only good enough to be squeezed out. And so are they in this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch have been squeezed out over the past ten years, deprived of their security and prosperity by looking away politicians, who apparently have no idea what it's like not to get around, who have no idea what it's like to have to live in great uncertainty. The Dutch are put in the last place again and again with all the consequences. Hundreds of thousands of people in problematic debt. Hardworking Dutch people who are barely able to cough up the groceries, the energy bill, the rent and care costs. Even a ride by car has become priceless due to the towering petrol prices. Pensioners have been seeing their retirement evaporate for 13 years. Life has simply become priceless for a lot of people in 2021. Nothing has been done to fix that and nothing has been done to stop it. Purchasing power remained year in, years from miles behind economic growth. Due to the extremely high inflation, an increasing energy bill and not fully compensating for it, the bizarrely low purchasing power vows also melt away like snow for the sun and people come back in the dark again. Entrepreneurs also have to deal with blow after blow because of the corona crisis. However good the aid packages are, they do not compensate enough, with all the consequences. 150,000 entrepreneurs suffer from severe stress and financial problems. More and more entrepreneurs want to throw it down. Meanwhile, the cabinet continues to spend bizarrely on mass immigration, climate and Brussels. Apparently, there's enough money for that. All this is paid out of the wallet of ordinary Dutchmen. That's what people are angry about, too, but you can't say that. Still, I'm doing that today, because we have to stop this. We need to put our own people back together, protect the welfare state, make sure they don't drown in the burdens and finally leave some money in the wallet. That's my goal today, and it's absolutely necessary. Mr. Chairman. Between 2010 and 2022, purchasing power is forecast to be 4,6% compared to 18,3% of economic growth. If we only look at 2021 and 2022, it turns out that on paper there is no purchasing power at all, compared to almost 8% economic growth. So that one percent is already gone. And that while 1 million households, according to this cabinet's figures, are already very difficult to live by. There are 220,000 working poor according to the SER. There are also almost 100,000zzp'ers among them, who can't make it at all. And the number of households with problematic debt rises by 614,000. And to think, the consequences of the corona crisis have not even been taken into account. These figures come in handy only after this budget debate. Meanwhile, European figures give an even worse picture. 2 million Dutch people are at risk of poverty. Yesterday we had to read that only 27% of Dutch people are financially healthy. Mr. Chairman. According to Deloitte, half the population is financially vulnerable. Half the Dutch population is financially vulnerable. Let's get that through your head. And no, that's not just the result of the corona crisis. A lot of people couldn't make ends meet before this crisis. Even then, Nibud warned that 60% of the income goes on fixed charges. Even then, the food banks could hardly cope with demand. People simply cannot benefit from economic growth. They have to work longer and longer to eventually get less pension. 'Cause that's gotta break, too. Apparently, we're gonna have to break our pension. We have the most beautiful pension system in the world. Of course there are looming errors in it; we have to solve them. But in the base, it's a beautiful system. But the reformers have to tear it down if necessary. In order to create support for this, the reformers in box K have been consciously ensuring for years that there can be no indexing. For example, all proposals were rejected to adjust, for example, the calculation rate. And so it can happen that with a staggering capacity of EUR 1,800 billion, the pension has been suspended for 13 years. The pension funds themselves indicate that they are lagging behind some 20% of the pension index. This is terrible for pensioners and people who are building up pensions, because standstill is a decline. Mr President, you will hear that my nose is a little bit bothering me. That's because I have chronic cluster headaches. One of the symptoms of this is a runny nose. I am a little more affected by this than usual during debates. So that's why I'm sniffing. Then you'd think pension funds would protest and stand up for their participants. But no, it stays quiet. That's crazy. Millions of pension participants are the victims. Is that perhaps because the pension world and the politics are unhealthy intertwined? Is that perhaps because the pensionbobos want to keep their political friends here in The Hague? Is that perhaps because the President of the Pension Federation, who should be standing up for pension funds, is a VVD? Is that perhaps because the chairman of the pension fund ABP is a CDA? Those happen to be all parties that are in favour of the demolition of our pension. Pension funds should be involved in the proper management of all those billions of pension money, and in achieving maximum returns. But nowadays pension funds prefer to deal with things like the climate. ABP is the crown. With fire, the fond defends the absence of indexation, but the real passion only rises when it comes to climate, with Paul Rosenmöller's downfall as a board member. Paul Rosenmöller is the man who successfully demonized Pim Fortuin towards May 6, 2002. This extreme-left climate activist is now entitled to demolish the pension of over 3 million people. I believe that we should prevent this, not only because he is a terrible man with political blood on his hands, but also because he has interests as an active member of the First Chamber. People who sit on the board of a pension fund should be free from all appearances of conflict of interest. And that appearance is there now. We therefore call on the Minister to instruct DNB to reject the entry of Paul Rosenmöller on 1 December 2021. I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. I call once again on the cabinet to allow indexation for 2022 for all pensioners. The adopted PvdA motion to index in 2022 sounds nice, but in practice it is a wash nose. Millions of Dutch people, including working policemen and nurses, can whistle to indexing because four of the five largest funds are below a coverage rate of 105%. These funds, with EUR 1 800 billion in the cash, must be poor. That's a hell of a scandal. So adjust the calculation rate and give the people what they deserve: indexing. Mr. Chairman. Apparently, what also needs to be broken is our welfare state. For example, 52% of the assistance goes to non-Western immigrants every year alone. A blind horse can see that this is unsustainable and that this puts a disproportionate pressure on the welfare state. This cabinet sees that too, but instead of being honest about it, it chooses to keep figures under the hat and muffle away. On the question of how much billion euros a year goes to non-Western immigrants, I cannot get an answer. It's a normal question, but I can't get an answer. Under the guise of "we're not keeping up," I can't get an answer. That is weird, because in 2019 I finally got an answer after a long push. Then the answer was about EUR 3 billion. Now I can't get an answer. That's a little crazy. I took a math machine myself for a while, because I can also calculate. This simply shows that today it is EUR 3.2 billion. I don't understand why the Secretary of State wants to put that under the hat and that he doesn't just want to send it to the Chamber. I don't agree with that either. He hasn't answered any questions about welfare fraud. He hasn't answered any questions about the pressure on social security. I cannot accept that, especially since I have a constitutional right as a Member of Parliament. Article 68 of the Constitution states that the Secretary of State shall not mean me as a person, but I mean my position as a Member of Parliament shall give the information and serve in the sense that he must answer the questions. I therefore ask him to do so as a matter of urgency. In order to avoid situations of this kind, where there is deliberately no transparency, I call for migration background, use and deliberate fraud to be recorded in the registration of recipients of social security schemes, together with the identification of individual percentages, costs and consequences, and to inform the House of Representatives every year in the budget. In fact, the cover-up of figures does not solve problems. If you do not accept this, then all those fine words about transparency and a new governance culture are of course not worth anything. So I'm assuming I'll get that information by Thursday. Mr. Chairman. It is important to obtain this information in order to protect and sustain social security for the future. To begin with, we must finally politically recognise that mass immigration and the preservation of our welfare state are an impossible combination. Therefore, in the interests of our welfare state, close the borders for all immigrants from Islamic countries and for asylum seekers. For immigrants who are already here, we must limit access to social security as much as possible. Immediately exclude status holders from the assistance. You're gonna have to deal with a deliberate benefit fraud like hell. People in the Netherlands need to see that their taxpayers' money is being handled well. That is not the case now. They're working their asses off for immigrants who stifle the place. They'll never get a thank-you. It's just getting it. That's gotta stop. Mr. Chairman. We need to give the money back to our own people, so they'll have some space left in the wallet. That is why I call for real reductions in rents, the increase in VAT on groceries and the elimination of the own risk in healthcare. Never made my proposals, but I hope it will be different this week. It's more necessary than ever. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you to Mr De Jong. Is there a question from Mr Van Baarle? Please stand still for a moment. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u5	By the way, I wish Mr De Jong strength with his cluster headache. Mr De Jong indicated on behalf of the PVV that he wanted answers from the State Secretary when it came to people in the assistance. Then Mr. De Jong wanted to have registered the origin of people. Mr De Jong states that that would be a perfectly normal question. I would like to ask Mr De Jong: do you really believe that that is a normal question? Isn't it true in the Netherlands that you have rights? You're entitled to welfare. That's no matter where you come from. That's no matter where the cradle of your ancestors stood. Registering people's origins is something that's racist. That is something that does not matter, because everyone is entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u6	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u7	So Mr De Jong shares the view of the DENK Group that this is a racist question and that it is not a normal question at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u8	No. It is also a very stupid question that is being raised here. I'll tell you why. If it were really racist, for example, the 2021 integration report, in which the CBS and the CPB record normal figures on origin, would be racist for Mr Van Baarle. If you have such an idea, you're just out of your mind. As for the content: measuring is knowing. If you see that about 10% of the Dutch population is non-western immigrants, but they use the assistance for 52%, that is unhealthy. And then something should happen. Then something should be done not only with regard to the sustainability of the social system but also with that group, because it cannot be true that we in this prosperous country allow 10% of the Dutch population to be in a benefit-dependent situation for 52%. On that basis alone, Mr Van Baarle should stand beside me in order to raise these figures. He should not come up with all kinds of crazy accusations about racism, because we are not getting anywhere with that, and I am throwing it far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u9	We need to take a look at what Mr De Jong says on behalf of the PVV. He says something must happen to that group. "Based on origin, something must happen to a group." That's really bad. Then we're going in the wrong direction. The question I would like to ask Mr De Jong is: what did you learn from the premium affair? What you want is to classify people on the basis of their origin, based on their migration background, as a risk of fraud. That's what ruined people in the supplemental affair. They're completely destroyed by that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u10	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u11	I would like to ask: do you know which way you are going in the light of the surcharge affair, where people have been wrongly identified as fraud on the basis of their migration background and where their lives have been ruined?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u12	That's not because of the registration, but because innocent people have been chased by the IRS. Minister Asscher has set up a special group to grab people who are innocent, who have done nothing wrong at all. What strikes me at DENK, by the way, is that it's always about the background, while for me it's just victims of the supplemental affair. That should never have happened, and you know it, because we have always fought against that approach. But measuring is knowing. You just need to be able to see that there is disproportionate pressure on social security. You're suggesting that I say, since it's 52%, we have to do all kinds of terrible things. That's not true at all. You need to see why they're in that welfare-dependent situation. How do we get them to work as soon as possible? Or is a large group of people here just to take advantage and do they not want to contribute anything at all? You know that, too. The moment you can measure it, you can see it and you can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u13	Thank you. And good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u14	I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. I've had it for so long. It is only in these kinds of debates that it is very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u15	Cluster headache sounds very intense. I've got a visual on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u16	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u17	Mr De Graaf is the second speaker on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u18	I'm almost intoxicated by the cleaning air. It's been cleaned so many times now that I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u19	A very fresh place!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u20	If I breathe this properly, I'll never be tested positive again! Mr. Chairman. Now that the invisible Minister of Integration is not here, I have the opportunity to ask one of the most important questions, including this cabinet period, to this fresh Secretary of State. That question is: what report figure does he give the Netherlands? That question is nice and general, but I'm going to specify it further. I mention a number of parts. What figure does he give the assimilation of foreigners who have entered our country since Angela Merkel's "Wir verwacht das"? What figure does he give them knowledge and use of the Dutch language? And what figure does the Secretary of State give to the social cohesion between the Dutch and, for example, Islamic immigrants? Can he include the report on Muslims in the Netherlands? I thought that was SCP. What figure does the Secretary of State give to the employment rate of immigrants from Islamic countries and can he also immediately shed light on crime in these groups? What figure does the Secretary of State give to the growth of the nuisance experienced by more and more original Dutch people by immigrant drug dealers and street racers in residential areas? Can he also immediately include what he thinks of the fact that integration, which is pursued by a great many people, does not seem to take place in those lower groups of crime? What does the Secretary of State think of the growth of Islam in the Netherlands and how does he think Islam will contribute to a free Netherlands, in which women should be as valuable as men? Mr. Chairman. I am not only asking for figures between 1 and 10, as in school, but I also expect a qualitative assessment from the Secretary of State. I expect depth. I expect an ideological reflection. I challenge him not to give three brief written answers, as the Minister always does, before he gives his answers here in plenary. I am asking him to start the debate. He owes that to at least half the population. More specifically, I am talking about women whose freedom and the right to self-determination are under severe pressure or are being put under serious pressure if Islam continues to gain ground, as has happened in the past cabinet period. Who remembers the warnings of Pim Fortuyn and Theo van Gogh? Who remembers the time when criticism of Islam went unpunished? How long has that been? Was it perhaps the time of Abraham Kuyper or of Christiaan Snouck Hurgronje? Mr. Chairman. Our Party for Freedom is the most prominent anti-Islamic party on the whole globe, and fortunately we find more and more supporters in other countries. My party leader, Geert Wilders, experiences every day the consequences of criticism of Islam. He was dragged into court. He's threatened with death every day and can't go down the street alone. That's what happens to you when you criticize Islam. There are hardly any other parties who dare to have a fair and factual debate about this violent conquest ideology. They don't dare; they don't deepen and they don't right their backs. They'd much rather keep it shallow to get out of the discussion quickly. The rejection of Islam criticism and the taunting and persecuting of those who dare to express justified criticism are the fixed parts of the toxic mix of the good people. Violent is the scourge that is culturally destroying the Netherlands. Virtue is refusing to see Islam for what it is, but meanwhile finger-flapping the critics from the moral plateau. The wretched thing about that is that it seems to be helping, but in the longer term, as a country and as a people, you're the scarf. Mr. Chairman. The scourge is the behavior of the many professional politicians who also populate this House of Representatives. They are the example of the cowardly companies and institutions that have been poisoned with the "way with us" virus. It is their behaviour that has brought the Netherlands morally to the abyss. The situation is appalling. Anyone who criticizes Islam is still socially and economically flattened for so many years after Fortuyn and Van Gogh. Where the pissing off and boycotting of Israel, Judaism and Christianity is bon ton I have just said a bit of an ugly word indeed and where the pissing off of for example Staphorst has become the golden standard, criticism of Islam means a single one to the social gulag. Look at the media, which heavy reports about the enforcers with a headscarf, as in Utrecht. Or look at the Amsterdam City Council, which votes against a Dutch flag in the council room, but supports the headscarf for boas. The officials of the state media, formerly called "journalists," do not raise any critical questions. They are afraid to be called Islam Mafia or the bad guys for Islamophobia, or are part of it themselves. For example, look recently at Mrs Erica Meiland, who rightly criticises wearing headscarfs. She's threatened in her livelihood. Fortunately, she keeps her back straight, but who is here in the Lower House openly defending her? No one but the PVV. And where Lale Gül was mostly used as poster girl of the badgebrigade, that was right, because I also agree with what is in her book.Miss Meiland is put in the cold, for example by two angry deugheks in a talk show, who do nothing but kick down other women to be able to stand on top of monkey rock themselves. Mr. Chairman. Those who stand up for Lale Gül but let Mrs Meiland burst, is a hypocritical bag of hay. Lale Gül himself did record for Mrs Meiland. She doesn't think her opinion on Islam and headscarves is that strong at all. I quote: "A lot of women in Iran can shake hands with her." A second quote from Mrs Gül: "I do think that as a society we have a problem at a time when especially very young people with a bicultural background seem to find it impossible to find them hurt or their religion or their honour offended by statements from e.g. an Erica, a cartoonist, a cabaret or a writer." Does the Secretary of State agree with me on this? And is he prepared to make a moral appeal to society as a whole not to exclude people with Islam criticism from social and economic movement? Does he agree with me that Jinek and Janzen abandoned all women in their talk show with their cheap hat behavior? I would like to receive a substantiated oral answer next Thursday. Because this is not just about Mrs Meiland. We are talking about all the women in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Last week I asked the outgoing Secretary of State about the cost of mass immigration and the subsequent assimilation and integration disaster. The Secretary of State came up with a cliché answer, namely that people do not pass the bar of the euro. That statement was made up by Asscher once. We know what hospitalization costs in this country, we know what a suicide costs, we know what an unemployed person costs, we know what a reintegration journey costs. We know what a child who is 18 years old is raised and maintained by his parents. And we know about every cow at millimol level how many gases they emit. We know that. Our government knows terrifyingly many of the inhabitants. But the government closes its eyes when it comes to immigration and Islamization. Fortunately, institute NYFER, Syp Wynia and also Dr. The Beek did make high-quality calculations. Is it true, as I ask the Secretary of State on the basis of these calculations, that without the mass immigration of the last 40 years, we could have left the gas in the soil of Groningen and that the Netherlands would have been much better in terms of quality? 'Cause that's exactly the 400 billion we're looking at. The Beek were lost to mass immigration. These are also the benefits of the Groningen gas since 1960. Here, too, a statement from the Secretary of State. To give the Secretary of State a qualitative hand, I will give you some examples, for example from my beloved Scheveningen, where it has deteriorated very rapidly in recent years. These examples can be found in many cities. These include dealing drugs on the promenade, street races through residential areas and along the harbour, shisha parties on the sidewalk of a retirement home and almost hitting people. The rushed enforcers turn around and then fined a fishing company for a van that is emptyed and just parked wrong. Those are the priorities. Everyone knows these examples, at least if you don't live in a neighborhood where you talk with a hot potato in your mouth. One side of the country is left untouched when it comes to immigration and its consequences, but the common Dutchman is increasingly being harassed. In the Netherlands, criticism of Islam has been implicitly prohibited in recent years, but criticism of our own culture has become normal. Being white or being born white is the new original sin, and our culture seems to be ruined. This country is sick as hell. I give the cabinet on behalf of millions of Dutch people the report figure 1 in all the parts I mentioned at the beginning of the speech. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to express my support for anyone who criticises Islam, and especially if that happens well-founded, because, of course, you have to read it out. I ask everyone in the Netherlands to stand up and defend our own culture by hand and tooth. As far as criticism of Islam is concerned, I can very much encourage it in just three words. Those three words are: girl, that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u21	Thank you to Mr De Graaf. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u22	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to express my appreciation to Secretary of State Wiersma, who has been working so hard over the past few months to manage the entire Ministry of Social Affairs and is alone in the Chamber this week to defend the budget of nearly 100 billion. I think that deserves a hat. Chapeau. I didn't hear what Mr. Nijboer said, but I think it was approval of this statement of support. Mr. Chairman. What kind of country do we want to work in? Again almost two years ago, the Regulatory Committee, led by Mr Borstlap, presented its view on the labour market in a report with this title. It was a report full of answers to this question, with a broad analysis of the labour market and recommendations to make it more resilient and manoeuvrable. You might as well ask, and that's what I'm gonna do. "Would we like to work in this country?', A paraphrase of Borstlaps, which I would like to use in this debate on the Employment and Social Affairs budget to name how the Netherlands wants to work and what it needs to do to help solve the existing problems in the labour market. Do we want to work in this country? The answer to that question is, of course, yes. The employment rate in the Netherlands is 80%. That's high when you compare it to countries around us. But let me cut the question in three to go into that a little bit more. First of all, I would like to stress "will." Then it is quickly about the conditions for work and entrepreneurship. I am thinking here of good employership, good employeeship, independence and remuneration. Secondly, I would like to emphasise "we." Well, I guess I'll just talk on behalf of working women and mothers. I also appeal to women, but especially to all Dutch people. In a minute. Third, I stress "keep working." In doing so, I go into training and explain why it is now time to create a breakthrough in lifelong learning. I'll spend about 20 minutes on those questions and on the answers of us as VVD. Then my group colleague, Daan de Kort, comes to the chair to discuss how 'will' also becomes 'can' for everyone who is still on the side of the labour market, for example for those in the welfare sector. But that's what Daan's gonna go into later. First of all, how do we want to work? The image of work is sometimes a little negative. The public debate, here in this room, in the media and in the pub, is not always positive about work. When it comes to work, it's often about workload and burn-out, and recently there are reports of millennials indicating that they don't want to work too many hours. And the 1.4 million self-employed are mainly talked about as if they are all very vulnerable. Too bad, because from TNO research we know that about 80% of all workers are generally satisfied or very satisfied with their work, while less than 7% are dissatisfied with it. We all give our work on average a 7.8 on report figures. I think that's a pretty good report. And that's a good thing, because work is an important part of our lives. It's so much more than just income and making money, so Borstlap and all the other experts wrote. Work is about personal development, about social contacts, about structure in your life and about being needed for others. Whether you're a pastry chef, nurse, pizza delivery guy, school leader or indoor employee, every job is there because someone else needs it, and with any kind of work you can make someone else happy. Job fun, job satisfaction or lack thereof are not the biggest problem in the labour market at the moment. Deficiencies are the major problem in the labour market. There are a lot of vacancies, and there have been a huge lack of professionals for months, such as machine mechanics, nurses and construction workers. With attractive work that is sufficient, should it be possible to solve some of these deficits? And yes, work must be attractive. First of all, it has to suit an individual and his skills, but I will come back to that later. For many parties, even in this Chamber, attractive work is mainly a permanent job with a fixed weekly structure, but that is not necessarily the ideal way to work for everyone. In fact, if you zoom in on workers who leave a sector or become self-employed, you can see that in many cases they are people who feel trapped in fixed schedules and who have too little influence on their own working hours. For workers too, flexibility and autonomy are often very important. In this respect, mutual agreements, the dialogue between employees and employers and between employees are crucial. But this dialogue is not always possible, for example through strict collective agreements or claims. In fact, in law, we assume that employers and employees are, by definition, unequal. The employer is the powerful boss and the employee the powerless and dependent. But is that really always the case at this time? Employers don't feel like they're the boss anymore. They're becoming less powerful because it's hard to find good people for the work they offer. It is also difficult to maintain people, because they sometimes have many responsibilities and duties and cannot always oversee them. What is good employership? What's good employment? And how do we make both more attractive? As far as I am concerned, this is the time to name and use this as a guide to regulation. My first question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees. Could he perhaps contribute to an update of what good employership and good employeeship actually mean and what elements are relevant in that regard? What basic agreements should there be on expectations, on the interaction between employees and between employer and employee, and on the dialogue? What can the Secretary of State do to get such an update, so I call it, in bad Dutch version? And yes, good and appropriate work must also yield sufficient results. We are talking about minimum wages, wage scales, salary buildings and part of the purchasing power figures. It is also about the so-called wedge: the difference between gross and net wages. The VVD is curious how this wedge has developed in recent years and what the expected development is in the coming years. I'm looking, I'm looking and I'm looking, but I don't find any clear pictures or tables of the structure of that wedge, and what's the difference between different forms of contract, for example, between part-time and full-time. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u23	Sure, from Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u24	I heard the minimum wage pass. We have seen huge inflation rates today, namely 5.6% in November, and hugely rising energy prices. The VVD has indicated that there is room to raise the minimum wage. ABN AMRO today indicates that a big leap is justified. What should be the increase for the VVD on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u25	I had in my text: "minimum wage." Then I'm sure Mr. Van Kent will jump up. I think Mr. Van Kent is right to mention a number of things, such as high inflation. Questions have been asked about this and they have been answered. It is still unknown how that works, but we are certainly concerned about this. The VVD has previously indicated that you yourself say that there is, as far as we are concerned, an increase in the minimum wage. How much is involved and on what conditions is, of course, part of the negotiations, as I think I have said before. I can't just turn that into a number, a percentage or something behind the comma. I know that this disappoints Mr Van Kent, but I can't make any more of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u26	Not just me, but especially anyone who hopes for a higher minimum wage, because they need that badly in their wallet. And January 1st is soon getting closer. The fact that your party decides to stretch the formation endlessly is your responsibility, but 1 January is getting closer. How is the VVD going to raise the minimum wage on 1 January and can the VVD guarantee that? I would also like to hear the commitment of the VVD: what should be the increase in the minimum wage as far as the VVD is concerned? Because if we don't do something, we're going to have a few quarters up and then we're already in 2023, while almost half of the Netherlands is already financially vulnerable. So there's no time to lose. You can continue to negotiate endlessly, but you can also say: we are going to take a step now, because in the Lower House a very large group of people wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u27	I taste very well what Mr. Van Kent wants and in part we want the same thing, but for a very large part of course neither. What is the commitment of the VVD, you have been able to read in our election programme and in the passing on of it. That is different from what you would like, for example. I can also imagine that you know that this is different from what a number of other parties want at the table. So I cannot make the promise that this will be settled before 1 January. I can't, and I don't want to. I can only make a promise that we will fight to ensure that at least those who depend on a minimum wage will see real progress in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u28	Mr. Van Kent. Try to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u29	Then I notice that what the SP wants is not what the VVD wants at all. What the SP wants is for us to move quickly to a higher minimum wage, to that €15 in 2025 and to take a first step on 1 January with an increase of 20%. We must make great and clear agreements on this, and very quickly. Otherwise, we'll just be two more years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u30	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u31	Again, you can say that you do not agree with what the SP thinks or that there are similarities and differences. My question is simple: what does the VVD Group want on 1 January? I would simply like a clear answer to that. What increase should be made there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u32	Once again, what the VVD Group wants has been included in the electoral programme. That's all worked out by the CPB. You can see everything in that. What the VVD wants on 1 January is that hopefully in the short term, with a next cabinet, with a subsequent government agreement, we will be able to make people in the country happy with things that are happening here. In the end, it is very important for us that, if you work for minimum wage and full-time, you can just live a decent, normal life and that you can pay fixed charges and things like that, while at the same time it will not cost too many jobs. Those are two things on the basis of which we will do the negotiations. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u33	I am triggered by the element 'people must be able to pay their fixed costs and they must be able to do their shopping'. I couldn't agree more. We have seen the news today that inflation has increased by 5.6%. That means that these purchasing power promises, as they stand in the budget, have evaporated and are no longer there. That was nothing, less than 1%, but now people go fat in the minus. The honourable Member is of the VVD. In trade-K is a VVD Secretary of State, an Acting Minister. My question is: do you support my call for a purchasing power recovery plan to ensure that this inflation problem is restored so that people can simply pay their messages, their rents and all of them, in a normal way? That is, of course, not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u34	Yeah, 5.6%. I saw yesterday that it was already a prediction in Belgium. That scared the hell out of me. But that it is indeed the prediction in the Netherlands, that is almost unprecedented, you would say. What I support and in which Mr. De Jong can recognize the VVD, is that we are indeed always in favour of relief. We have also made a real effort in recent years to reduce the burden. What we, as VVD, are also committed to is that support measures, support packages, are needed for people who are at risk of falling through the ice. We have also often talked about energy prices in this house over the past period. If Mr. De Jong says we need a purchasing power recovery plan, I'll recognize it and I'll agree with him. I also heard him say that this should be there by Thursday morning. I find that a bit complicated, as there are so many elements of course. I just mentioned the wedge between gross and net. For most people it is not very interesting how much gross salary they get, but especially what is paid into the account at the end of the month. So there are a lot of elements in that. I'd like to have an overview of which button you can turn. Could that be there by Thursday? I don't know. I recognize Mr De Jong's appeal, and I can support it somewhat. Is that a word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u35	Behind scissors, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u36	Behind scissors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u37	That's really good news. What's gonna cause people the most trouble right now are super expensive groceries, to name but one thing, or the rent. People can't do that anymore at the moment, but that's only gonna get worse in a minute. So can I make the agreement with the VVD that if I make a motion on Thursday, at least that motion will be supported? This motion calls for a reduction in rent and recovery of purchasing power to be achieved by 1 January and for the inflation which is now a new one to be restored. Can I count on the support of the VVD? So, in concrete terms, is the VVD prepared to support the idea of at least compensating for what inflation has now come up and for the Secretary of State to do so before 1 January, so that people actually notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u38	I'm sorry, but the interruptions can be shortened, otherwise I can't do you justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u39	The great thing about the motions that Mr De Jong often makes is that they are so short. The downside is sometimes that they are so nice and short. I find it a little complicated to start giving a blank cheque on a motion that I haven't seen yet. So listen to what I'm saying. At the same time, I'm not a general economist. I'm not an economist. Around inflation and purchasing power there are a lot of elements that I don't know all the ins and outs of either. I would like to see the motion that Mr De Jong has in his head. We can see if we can find any of that. Well, we always find something about it, but we can see if we can give it a positive expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u40	That's a bad thing, because I'm just a general economist. What you see in the purchasing power picture for next year is that the expectation was actually already zero in September: everyone on the zero line. There were higher estimates for the energy bill. Now you also see that inflation is higher. This has partly been compensated by the cabinet, but on balance everyone in the Netherlands, including the workers, will just get really fat in the minus. Working must pay is one of the VVD's mantras, but it won't end up there next year. The question, the political question, is: are you going to fix that? We can do that with this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u41	Are you gonna fix that, Mr. Chairman? Once again, I have seen the answers to Mr Omtzigt's questions. There is indeed a purchasing power overview, but I do not like to sign it. Mr Nijboer will recognize that. He's not gonna want to do that either. The complicated thing is that I can't really see which buttons you have to turn to make sure that it can be done better and that people are less affected by it than it seems to be happening right now. Again, I'm not gonna give you any blank guarantees. I'm not gonna make implied promises. But I'm willing to do this. Of course, Mr. Nijboer gets me right on the Achilles heel, on what I'm sensitive to. People who work hard indeed see their income evaporate. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u42	The PvdA pays particular attention to tenants who have been declining for years, especially in draft houses, and to the elderly and pensioners, who have not been indexed for years. Those are the measures which are part of this budget. You can raise the AOW. You can raise the minimum wage. You can increase the link in the benefits. The VVD isn't usually like that, but it's possible. There are people who suffer a lot when they can't pay the bills, more than people on high incomes. So these are all things that we can do something about, including in this budget. Is the VVD prepared to consider such measures, a higher minimum wage and raising fees? You can also reduce taxes, but we have already voted on them. I am quite prepared to reopen that debate if you make a proposal. Is that what the VVD is thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u43	The VVD is always willing to think. The VVD is always willing to talk. At the same time, there are, of course, financial images behind this that are almost unimaginable. It's got to come from somewhere, too. There's still no money tree in the garden at the Treasury Department. At least it hasn't been shown to me yet. I would find it cheap to stay in the terminology just for a moment, to say now: yes, of course, all of that has to be solved. It wasn't just solved. If I do remember, the PvdA has in mind in its election programme a cost increase of EUR 42 billion for businesses to come back to. If that is Mr Nijboer's proposal for cover, I can promise you that we will certainly not sign for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u44	This is, of course, a serious debate. People just go down 1%, 2% and outliers over 3%, 4% a year. The VVD doesn't like to sign it. I understand that. We can do something about that. The political question to Mrs Tielen is: is she prepared to take additional measures in the SZB budget? I'll let you do the same with the Tax Plan. Then we must reopen the whole debate, but as far as I am concerned, all at your service. Then we can discuss the landlord's tax one more time. Is she willing to do that? Then we are talking about something substantial and not, of course, 10 or 20 million somewhere. It doesn't fix people's purchasing power. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u45	The answer 'no, point' is never satisfactory, so I am not going to give it either. Again, I can't see how big the price tag is. Once again, for an increase in the burden on business, I am certainly not going to sign. However, I am prepared to look together, in the context of those rather nasty predictions for the coming year, where there is some room to be found, just as we have done for the energy costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u46	We know the numbers: 220,000 working poor. Those are also people who are behind these questions. My colleague Nijboer just said it very well. This is at the heart of this debate. Sometime next week, we'll be voting on the budget. That's our budget right as a chamber. In January, someone with two jobs can no longer pay for the gas and the groceries. There's all this complicatedness behind it. The question is: do we find that a problem and are we going to say these two days as a political one that we find a problem in January? Or is the answer: I find the things that get out of there on the way so complicated, that I'm just saying "sorry, you're getting really worse, that's the political choice"? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u47	The working poor Mrs Maatoug refers to sometimes have two jobs. Those are often very small jobs. As far as I'm concerned, and you'll recognize that from the VVD, we continue to bet on people to good work with a decent income. That's what I was talking about. All the corona measures have made much available to guide people to good work and to pull them away from jobs you can't actually support a family of, so to speak. What am I gonna promise these people? Is it too complicated? Yeah, it's too complicated. Will I tell people from now on, from now on, now that the purchasing power plates around inflation have appeared this morning, that everything will be okay? No, I'm not gonna say that either. But let us indeed use this debate today and Thursday to see where there are opportunities. At the same time, I also believe that big pictures are getting away and that it will still be difficult to find cover with each other, because there are a number of parties in this Chamber that are really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u48	I notice that the VVD doesn't want to commit anything here and says that it's incalculable. Now I have put forward a very clear proposal, namely that assistance should go up a small step every year. We both know it's hard to make a living out of welfare. If it goes further down, it'll only be a bigger problem. I have worked out the amendment properly. Is the VVD willing to say that little step here at least? Or does the VVD not promise anything and promise nothing here at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u49	I just saw Mr. Van Kent's amendment on my desk. There were three of them. I must compliment the SP that there is always cover. I haven't been able to study it properly. Quite frankly, I just haven't read it yet. So I'm not gonna promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u50	They've been there for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u51	Oh. Well, that's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u52	Mrs. Tielen could have read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u54	Mr Van Baarle, you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u55	Yes, I would like to continue on the point that Mr Van Kent just pointed out. As far as the DENK group is concerned, with the rising inflation, with the rising costs, with the rising energy bills, it is crazy to cut the welfare benefits to people who are already struggling with the assistance in the coming years. The policy implemented by this cabinet under the direction of the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u56	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u57	Mrs Tielen has not yet seen the amendment, but can Mrs Tielen indicate how the VVD stands in that principle? Surely it is not possible at this time to reduce the number of people in the welfare system who are already declining further? We shouldn't do that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u58	At the same time, we have a labour market where there are jobs everywhere. As Mr. Van Baarle will recognize, the VVD is simply in favour of people being especially self-employed to earn their income and thus being more financially independent from the State and from the government than in the assistance. As far as the VVD is concerned, if we have to invest in something, we prefer to do so in order to ensure that people have good jobs with which they can simply earn an income. That is the position of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u59	So, if I hear Mrs Tielen correctly, we have to conclude that we have to reduce the people in the welfare system, who were already declining at Princess Day, sometimes by ten a month according to the Nibud, and now by inflation we have to reduce even more in the coming years by cutting welfare payments. I share with Mrs Tielen that people need to get to a job as soon as possible, but not everyone has been given the luxury of getting to a job as soon as possible. My question to you is why you leave those people in the cold by letting them in income go so far backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u60	There are two elements in Mr. Van Baarle's question. On the one hand, the stabilisation of assistance agreed a long time ago, and on the other hand, the huge inflation we were hearing this morning. I just said a lot about that last one. I haven't changed my mind about the first one. If we have to spend that one euro, I think we should use it to simply guide people to good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u61	I saw Mr Stoffer before Mr Omtzigt. Yes, Mr. Stoffer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't know who the first one was, but that's where Mr Omtzigt and I always come out. I hear that Mrs Tielen of the VVD is struggling with a bit of mercy on the one hand, but think on the other: yes, you can't give away everything either. I thought I'd come up with an idea like that. I thought maybe I could help with that. I agree that you need to get people to work as much as possible. I think that's always the best cure. When you have to get out of bed in the morning and you have something to do, it just gives you joy in life. But we have a lot of people who can't, of course, and for whom it's never gonna be that way. They will always remain in a certain way in a benefit, I'm guessing. It's all down. We have just heard the same thing, especially from the left side of the Chamber. I share that nasty feeling and I think Mrs Tielen shares it. These people are often financially or with goods supported by civil society organisations, churches and sometimes by family. That means very often that they are cut off on their benefit. My proposal is to look at these harsh times to see if we can make an exception there. It doesn't have to be for a whole year, but would Mrs Tielen like to think about it? Perhaps it could be something to give people who are on such a benefit to a certain extent a warm feeling, especially in this harsh time. Perhaps we could put that question together with the Secretary of State: find out what possibilities there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u63	I almost literally see Mr. Stoffer's outstretched hand. We are looking together for solutions that are merciful on the one hand, but also for the situation in which people are in, without the harshness of the rigid rules we have with each other. We also need these rules, but we can try to find a middle way in them. Honesty requires me to say that my colleague, De Kort, is about the beneficiaries. So the faint answer would be: Mr. Stoffer, would you like to ask Mr. De Kort again later? We are more broadly agreed in this Chamber that we should just look at how someone can move on a bit without putting "the computer says no" directly on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u64	It is pointed out...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u65	You have six. I only have three. That's the way it goes sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u66	We got these purchasing power cards this afternoon from the Secretary of State. They show that the purchasing power of all groups in the Netherlands is falling. Everyone. It is -0.7 on average, but the workers are falling, the beneficiaries are falling, the pensioners are falling, the two-earning people are falling, the single-earning people are falling, the single-earning people are falling. With or without children, everyone's in trouble. That is the purchasing power picture I asked for in the case of inflation of 3.4%. Now it turns out to be 5.6%. That means that -1% will be -3% or -4%. That means people can't pay their energy bills. It means that almost all workers are declining. At the same time, profits are being made, large transfers are being made to companies and the state budget is not that bad. Does the VVD agree with me that an increase in the minimum wage from €9.82 to €9.96, i.e. €0.14 per hour extra, is totally insufficient to maintain purchasing power? It's the people who work so hard, the people who do what you want. Are you willing to increase that minimum wage by €0.20 or €0.30 extra per hour? This is about €50 to €70 per month. People who work at the bottom can then just keep coming around and do not sink further into the swamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u67	Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for the questions he has asked. I was talking a little bit about the purchasing power plates that came on your initiative. It scares me, too. Mr. Omtzigt actually establishes a direct and somewhat one-dimensional relationship between purchasing power and minimum wage. I think that's too one-dimensional. We can raise the minimum wage, but I think there are many more elements to keep purchasing power in order. I asked myself about the wedge. It's nice that you have a gross salary, but how much will eventually be left and you'll get paid up at the end of the month? There are many other factors. I don't have to explain that to Mr. Omtzigt; he's much better at economics than I do. Besides, I'm standing here on behalf of the VVD. The election programme contains what we want to see and how we want to see the minimum wage increase. But Mr. Ommzigt also knows that we're not the only ones who are going about this. We are forming with a number of parties to see if we can get a majority in the Chamber for a good government agreement. I can assume that there too we are discussing the current situation of inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u68	I'll take that as a supposition. After ten months, inflation and, hopefully, wages will have been addressed, not just Shell. But these people cannot wait until January 1, when the energy bill of many people goes up by €50 or €80 per month. They can't wait for these four parties to meet. There is a large majority in this Chamber, from the PVV to the SP and from D66 to the VVD, who wants an increase in the minimum wage. I have not forgotten the PvdA, because that party has even tabled an initiative legislative proposal. So I'm sorry I missed them. A large majority in the Chamber feels for an increase of 10% to 40%, if you look at BET1. What I am proposing here is not radical at all. I am simply saying: take the first 3% to 4%, because there is a large majority for that, and do so on 1 January. And for the rest, go negotiate as long as you want, because we can't get that done faster. But you can't say that these people have to wait until these parties are negotiated? So are you prepared to ensure that this 3% to 4% increase can be implemented on 1 January, so that these people do not fall into purchasing power? It's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u69	In my view, we must now ensure that there is a government agreement in which there is a movement in the minimum wage that is right. A number of other people are working on that right now. At the same time, we must ensure that people do not fall through the ice because of inflation, and in particular energy costs. So I'm not saying, "Wait a minute; it'll be okay." I'm not saying that. I will say: I do not think it is the only and the best solution to settle that minimum wage within two days. In my view, we should keep an eye on what lies ahead, bearing in mind what we have put down in the energy aid package, which I would almost call'something': to ensure that people have some degree of security, so that things do not go completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u70	It's in the VVD election program. That's why we're proposing it here. Workers have to make ends meet. It is even stated in the Dutch Constitution: security of existence. The Nibud says: the security of existence is at stake if you have to live off a minimum wage. If you don't have an affordable home, it's totally at stake. If you work for the minimum wage, you can't rent a room in Amsterdam. That doesn't particularly grace Dutch society. So I'll let you do all sorts of extra things. But will you not take the step for these people to add 3% to 4%? For that there is a large majority in the Chamber, and that is in line with all the electoral programmes. At least these people won't go backwards in purchasing power. You know, those people who start cleaning at 6:00 in the morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u71	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u72	Those people who stand here as temp at the G.D.D.'s when it's hard, and they get kicked away when it doesn't work: those kind of people. Do we want to keep it above water? Or do we want to kick their ass with inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u73	Everyone in this room wants to keep these people above water. But I am not going to say that we are going to classify the minimum wage in this way, even if it is just because there are differences between the electoral programmes. I'm willing to give it to them that we'll make each other a plan that's gonna work for the next four years. We'll see if we can make sure those people don't fall through the ice just like Mr. Omtzigt says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u74	I'm a little confused right now. We have a debate and there is a budget. I have the budget on my desk. If I grab that one, I'll see some pretty box plots. It was 0.1. That was enough, because in a corona year it made sense for everyone to stay the same. At Mr Omtzigt's insistence, we are now getting new pictures. Mrs Tielen was right to say that we are seeing historical inflation rates. We see -1.4 and a static purchasing power. Then we cannot deal with a budget here and say: 'Yes, there is a formation table. Yes, you have bad luck in January, but I really think this is very important"? Then what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u75	What I think we're doing is more than just talking about purchasing power. Those pictures try to capture reality: the reality of people who work hard and then can't make ends meet by the end of the month, and the reality of families who have had to deal with all kinds of difficult things during Corona. I understand all that. But purchasing power plates aren't the only one-dimensional thing we have to look at. Inflation is something much bigger. In my opinion, it is not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe. It's not just the minimum wage that solves it. It is also not only resolved by wage increases. Then you get back to some pay-price spiral and all the complicated stuff. I do hear what Mrs Maatoug says and I do not disagree with her either. I just don't think it's right to put one graph and one percentage and one solution now. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u76	Thanks to the VVD colleague for the answer, but do I hear that we are going to find a solution these two days, because we all find that problem so big that we do not have the luxury of waiting in this budget, which is now ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u77	I think I said that a moment ago, but the complexity becomes... There's a price tag on it, there's control systems on it, you name it all. We can talk about that endlessly. We think differently about that. The great thing is that today and Thursday we can find the differences but above all also the similarities, so let's definitely use these two days for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u78	Please continue with your speech. Or does Mr Omtzigt have another question? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u79	These are concrete solutions. That is 1.4% loss of purchasing power if it remains at 3.4% inflation. It will be 5%, then we will be 3% to 4% loss of purchasing power. This is historically large, with 3% growth. Then all profits go to the people who have houses, to the people who have certain forms of investment. The employee stays all the way behind. The Dutch minimum wage goes to €9.96 per hour. In France it is already €10.03 per hour. In Germany it is €12 per hour. Great Britain, that great liberal front country, is going to raise the minimum wage to £9.50 an hour next April. That's over $11. If we put it here at €10,30 or €10,40, then we are not at the top of Europe. We are still among the great countries of Europe. The VVD must want to see that we make sure that we help those who do not reach the end of the month. And if there are other things to add, because there is too much tax, fine. But it's got to be possible. So my appeal to the VVD is: say what or say that we will come up with a proposal for Thursday how we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u80	Mr. Omtzigt continues to link purchasing power only to the minimum wage. I object to that, because it is not. Buying power consists of many and many more elements. It's also about fees. That's also about income tax. It's also about premiums. That is also about et cetera and so on and so on and so on. I told you what our direction is at minimum wage. I don't think we're gonna get an agreement on that in two days. I believe that we need to work together to ensure that we do indeed with the purchasing power figures in hand, but also with the big picture of Social Affairs and Employment, see what we can do to ensure that people can keep their heads above water, and also in a way that can be covered and which we all agree with. The minimum wage is not really the only dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u82	I was talking about the wedge, which is a wonderful jargon term for the difference between gross and net salary. We are curious how it has developed in recent times. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can make that development of the wedge clear to various income groups. How is this wedge actually built up in different forms of contract, full-time, part-time and self-employed? About the relative tax contribution between full-time and part-time was another interesting article of the week in Het Financieele Dagblad. We need that kind of insight and overview to make choices that ensure that good work is sufficient. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In addition to employers and employees, the Netherlands has 1.4 million self-employed workers. For the VVD, self-employment is a choice for entrepreneurship and for the use of your profession and talent in different places. For some people, as they call it, it's a choice not to have to work under a boss. For the VVD it is very important that it is a free choice, from positive motives. The zzp-schap must of course not be a flight or an alternative enforced by a client. I think we can all agree on that. The file zzp has proved rather uncomfortable in the past period. The debate about this also gives manyzzp'ers a nasty taste, because politicians question their entrepreneurship. We believe that it is very important for self-employed people to have greater clarity over the coming period and that there is scope for entrepreneurship for those who wish to do so. I would like to recall a number of previously adopted motions from my hand. But before I say anything more explicitly about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u83	... Mr Van Kent has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u84	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u85	This is your fifth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u86	I know, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u87	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u88	I am very much in favour of that clarity towardszzp'ers, especially when it comes to the support they need now. The cabinet has decreed measures. Many self-employed people lose all or part of their income and there is no provision for them. We had a debate on this last week. I had a discussion on this with your colleague and he said: we are waiting for that press conference. We've had it now. Does the VVD think that there should again be a provision for a self-employed income, not the assistance, but, for example, a Tozo as we knew it, but without that partner test?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u89	I believe that next week there will be a continuation of the debate on corona aid packages. Well, we're in a bit of a dilemma there. I think there's now a Bbz variation. Actually, the Tozo was also a Bbz variation. That was the basis, but it doesn't matter. Let's not get over it for long. There's something, but that's not enough for a lot of people. The question is whether you should make it bigger or that you should also talk to the self-employed about how to proceed. Again, the labour market is simply full of jobs. And if you're very technical and you've been waiting a year and a half for events to come, maybe it's not too weird that we're asking: "Oh, look how your technical skills can temporarily change the role." So it's a wink and a wink, where on the one hand we have the Bbz scheme that's sober, but it's there, and on the other hand we're helping the self-employed to find new entrepreneurship or a new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u90	I don't know where to start. We are always presenting serious, serious problems to the largest party negotiating a new cabinet and all we are getting is a vague story. I'm sorry to call it that, Mr. Chairman, a vague story. Obviously, the VVD has no idea what she's talking about. The Bbz is not similar to the Tozo. First of all, it is already a loan and as of 1 January a capital test comes on, that adjustment, which was temporary, falls away again. So again the question to the VVD. There are countless people, including those who are currently following this debate, who, in the interests of all of us, will cease their work in the interests of all of us in the interests of public health, and who will receive no support, no financial support. Once again, please clarify the question to the VVD, to all those people who are following this debate, whether it supports here, together with the SP, the proposal for an income scheme which does not look at the partner's income or the wealth, but looks at it: you have lost your job through the corona measures and we are going to offer compensation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u91	The VVD thinks people shouldn't fall through the ice. For example, there is the TONK scheme for this. Mr Van Kent is not satisfied. We just don't agree. It's possible, isn't it? It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u92	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u93	Yeah, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u94	Let Mrs. Tielen give her an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u95	We don't think people should fall through the ice. For example, there is the TONK scheme for this. It is far from being used wherever it may be necessary. At the same time, again, there is a lot of work in the Netherlands, which is also just a good salary. In my opinion, it is important to ensure that people can go somewhere, now that they have not been able to carry out their work in the way they were used to, so that they can use their skills in a different way and therefore simply earn an income independently of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u96	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u97	Mr. Van Kent, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u98	If this is the VVD's answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u99	Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u100	...they're gonna put all thosezzp'ers down through the ice like hell, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u101	Mr. Van Kent. I would like to ask you one more question, because you were already through your interruptions. But then you shouldn't point. I wanted to give you another interruption, in conclusion. I understand that you disagree with Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u102	I am asking a question here and I am getting an answer that really has nothing to do with the situation we are seeing in the Netherlands. We see people who have to stop working overnight and get no more income support. I ask a question about that to the VVD and then I get an answer: yes, we don't want anyone to fall through the ice. Well, these people, who, I think, are knocking on all the colleagues here, are exactly the example of people sinking through the ice. I ask the VVD if we can make a joint proposal so that these people no longer fall through the ice, namely a Tozo without a partner test, and then I get the answer: we think that people should not fall through the ice. That's not gonna get us anywhere, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u103	Mr. Van Kent and I obviously do not agree on this, also because I think he prefers not to. A lot of zzp'ers Mr Van Kent says that rightly so, seeing their work simply disappear. Fortunately there are a lot ofzzp'ers who are already in full bloom. I know a lot of them. There are also many who have put their heads in their laps again on Friday. Above all, we must ensure that these people are able to move forward. For that there are counters at the municipalities since the Tozo have the municipalities that are set up like crazy and there they have to talk to see how things are going. That's my answer. Mr. Van Kent shakes his head. He doesn't agree. Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u105	I had a number of motions about self-employed people. One of the things is to make sure that self-employed people can talk about all the things that we think of here in general and which are conceived mainly in the polder, i.e. the position of self-employed people in the polder. In the report on the Economic and Social Committee a few weeks ago, I read that the Chamber received an ESC opinion on its own composition on 1 January and that we could discuss it in the Chamber. I look forward to that. Then second. How do we want to delineate it here until women work? If you ask me, there's a lot of misconceptions about women and work. Everyone knows by now that the Netherlands is part-time champion. The vast majority of women work less than 35 hours a week. Whether that's a problem, there's a difference of opinion. I think it is a problem and I would like to mention two reasons: one because of our society and one because of the women themselves. I come back to the biggest problem of today's labour market, and that is the shortage. Many of the sectors in which there are large deficits are sectors in which many women work and the vast majority of them are part-time. More working a few hours a week could largely solve the deficits. It is therefore of benefit to our society if women start working more. A little further away from the position of women when it comes to management and management, which is often hampered by part-time work. In addition, for women themselves. Only half of women are financially independent and with a part-time job it is more difficult to earn sufficient income for yourself and your children, especially after a divorce. Yet almost 60% of Dutch people do not think that this is such a problem. It scared the hell out of me. The majority of Dutch people find that women shouldn't work full-time anyway, even if they don't have children. That fact worries me and almost gives me the idea that we are still living in the fifties of the last century. Time to be prepared for your future again, whether you're a smart girl, an employer or a cute guy. Time for a call to the Netherlands. I have put a call on paper, which I would like to offer to the Secretary of State and also to the Members of Parliament, entitled Women, who deserve more. In this manifesto, I call on various people and organisations to work to ensure that women earn more than they get now when it comes to their position on the labour market and on the workplace. This or the next cabinet can contribute to this by making that appeal. The broad public campaign I mentioned here is going to show the generation gap in the late eighties entitled "A smart girl is prepared for her future," showed that such a campaign can have a lot of impact, especially if it is accompanied by other policy instruments, such as reduction of burdens, as was done at the time. I ask the Secretary of State to launch such a broad successful campaign in the coming year to bring our Dutch views on women and work to the 21st century, to ensure that women take a more equal position in our country and in the labour market. The third part of the question is about keeping working. How can we continue to work, knowing that work is constantly changing through technologicalisation, robotisation, digitalization; you know it all? This Secretary of State called the file a lifelong learning himself, when he was a Member of Parliament, "a lifetime of dicks." He knows like no other that after-school, retraining and further training is something that is talked about a lot, but that this is not a normal part of his career for everyone in the Netherlands, whether you are an employer, an employee, a job seeker or a self-employed person. There are many reasons for this, and extensive research has already been carried out. This corona crisis has shown that training and career change can sometimes develop very quickly. Now is the time to move on to lifelong learning: catering staff who are now working satisfactorily in health care and do not really want to go back, learns the huge success of the NL window, where people can get career advice, as well as cooperation between municipalities, UWV, employers and trainers in regional mobility teams. I'm sure there's a question about that. When do we get an insight into the effectiveness of these mobility teams? Are people in different labour market regions also happy with them? Do they work as one window, as the VVD would like? I'd like a response. The STEP budget will be introduced in 2022. Every worker and job seeker receives a financial allowance of €1,000 to follow training that contributes to the career. The VVD believes that this is a good step forward. Shall I finish this block, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u106	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u107	At the same time, I am concerned about the huge amount of jars and regulations that exist for people who want to make use of training support. Can people find the right path and tap into appropriate finances? How is the alignment between STEP and, for example, the R&D funds? Is the Secretary of State talking to the sectors and the polder to ensure that there are no gaps between STEP and R&D and no duplication of work? How's that going, anyway? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u108	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just allowed the manifesto... can I call it a manifesto?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u110	Yes. I think I called it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u111	The pamphlet of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u112	Pamphlet's nice too, yeah. That's actually nicer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u113	I was allowed to receive the pamphlet from the VVD. This is an appeal to various parties: cabinet, employers, caregivers, parents, and young women and girls themselves. Under the heading "Cabinet" it is suggested that Mrs Tielen was already talking about a new 21st-century version of the then very successful campaign A smart girl is prepared for her future. That's where the appeal to the cabinet ends. I don't see anything about child care, for example. I also see nothing similar to knowledge of the fact that most women are already working. For example, most women are responsible for caring. They are far from always fairly divided in our country. It doesn't say anything about it. I'm actually curious why I miss that, because childcare is an important part of it for women in particular if they want to go to work. Of course, it is not very well arranged in our country at that point. So I wonder why it is not there and what the VVD's ideas are when it comes to making childcare more accessible, why, for example, we should not make it free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u114	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Childcare is something that I think we want to improve on at least. It is not so much about quality that is already very high - but about accessibility and affordability. I didn't put it there because if you're going to read through what women need to work more, you'll find that, oddly enough, childcare isn't at the top, not in the top three. The top three is about more boss over my own time, that I'm left with more and that I'm asked. I would like to have my pamphlet amended, because it would be nice if the VVD logo was provided with a lot of other logos or maybe no logos at all. I don't care. I am happy to have it amended, because I agree with Mrs Simons that childcare should be much more accessible and that women can really help to claim their position on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u115	My question then is how the VVD feels about that. The logo of BET1 on your manifesto would be spectacular, but that would mean that we would go to free childcare. That's what BET1 stands for. So I am very curious to see how far the VVD is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u116	For free I find just too much indeed, but at a very small price I could go with. We should then negotiate what is a small price. I'm sure I'm prepared to think about that. Last cabinet period money has been invested to make childcare more accessible, but it can do much better. A little bit further away from the whole system around it. We're definitely on that route, too. Not for free, because there's no free.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u117	Glad to hear that the VVD also wants to get rid of the complicated supplement stuff around child care, because that's what I'm thinking about when I hear this. Let me just say that we still have a problem in the Netherlands when it comes to the distribution of care tasks and, above all, that we have a blind spot when it comes to the fact that those care tasks are there. I have just received, of course, the interruption debate on raising the minimum wage. There the VVD was very firm. However, I also see someone standing here saying: we must make it fairer for women. Of course, I agree with that, but how do the two relate to each other and what are we going to do about all this unpaid care that women, and especially women in those low income categories, are responsible for? That's what I'd have liked to see around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u118	Then I would almost ask the question: how did you see that amendment to the leaflet? But Mrs Simons is right, of course. Often women are first looked at when it comes to a sick parent, a sick child or whatever. In the end, I think we need to get to it, but then it gets bigger again, to leave arrangements and agreements with a good employer that you get space, even as a working woman, to be able to provide that care in the time that suits you. That is also the first part of my speech. But also that you make arrangements with possibly your male partner or your brothers or whatever, so it doesn't just come down to you. So what the pamphlet is especially meant for, is to make women also a little more self-powerful to just claim that space as well. Perhaps Mrs Simons will recognize that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u119	Mrs. Simons? Oh, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u120	Firstly, a compliment to Mrs Tielen. It is always nice to work on a particular policy item and also to be incorporated into a manifesto. So my compliments on that. I agree: women deserve more and certainly more than they often get. Anyway, you understand, that's not what my question is about. I saw some things on here. We'll talk about that later if we've read it right and looked at it carefully. But I noticed one thing. Under the heading of care providers: open up the conversation and stimulate the conversation about the distribution of work and care at home. I think at least we agree on that. Suppose that means that the man is going to work 100% and the woman is going to work 50%, and with each other they say that this is a good situation for us, as it is now in our family.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u121	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u122	Then my question is: does Mrs Tielen then say 'I respect that and then that is also the situation that might be most comfortable for that family'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u123	Of course, I respect everyone's free choice and everyone's free dialogue about it. Only, my point is that that choice is not always as free as we think it is. More than half of the women will work no less at the birth of the first child. Why not? Because they already work part-time, for example. We often think that around the birth of the first child something changes, and that is what the conversation is about. But then the choice has already been made. The question is whether that was a free choice. Look at what happens in a divorce. It's really sad to see. It's not in a purchasing power picture to capture what happens to women when they divorce. Look at the retirements. Women who work less in their entire lives simply also have much less pension structure. Sometimes they only find out by the time it's actually impossible to fix. So of course, Mr. Stoffer, if it is truly a sincere, equal, free choice, fully informed about all its consequences, it is everyone's free choice. I'm liberal enough. Only, my concern, and what I see in our society, is that it doesn't happen very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u124	Thank you for that answer. I think we will discuss this later, because in practice, of course, you see things going a different way. Let me say first of all that I agree with the concern expressed by Mrs Tielen that when women are left behind only after divorce or sometimes after their partner dies, you often see something poignant happening. I think we need to find a solution to this. Then this could be a direction. We can also think of other solutions, perhaps. But that's not for now, it's for later. But then there's the question. Because now it is also very fiscally stimulated, and I would like to express it nicely in order, in part, to go on to that labour market. If you choose to stay at home for a few years, you have to be really crazy, because that costs you a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u125	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u126	And my question is whether Mrs Tielen also thinks that we should remove this inequality. So: make the totally free choice you can just make within a family.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u127	I am not surprised by Mr Stoffer's question. The answer is no, by the way. We also had a term for that with the VVD. It was called the counter grant. That's not very nice. I won't name that again. But tax will make both parents... also because those women are needed, right? They are needed at home, just like men; they are also needed at home, as well as in the labour market. We just need the skills and talents of all those women. So I don't think that's the first button we're going to turn. In fact, I'd really like you to work more as a woman, and you'll get more out of it. Now very often the calculation is not very favourable when increasing the number of hours per week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u128	Mr Stoffer, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u129	Sure. I'm not interested in the countertop subsidy, as we can call it quietly. This is what I'm talking about. If you go to work and you have children under 12 years of age, then the wife or the second partner, say, in a family, gets a huge tax incentive. I would very much like to take it away, so that we really let it be a free choice how to divide labor and care with each other. And I'm not cleaning up all the problems that exist and that I can see, but I'm cleaning up this problem. Let's make it right here, please. Could we talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u130	That's one of the reasons why I asked you to take a look at the wedge between the different contracts. The wedge, again, for the people at home, is the difference between gross and net wages, which include tax, tax and technical matters, between full-time and part-time, in different forms of contract. Then we can get an insight into what incentive is real and what to turn on. So my answer now is no, but actually that's an incomplete answer, because I still need those pictures. I see Mr. Stoffer nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u131	Mrs. Palland has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u132	Yes, also on this point, because I think it is very good that we should go further into this. I should also like to thank Mr Simons, who was also a little broader, and I think he is right to do so. I understand very well the call for 'don't let it be automatic for women', and I remember that campaign from the 1980s very well. That might help. What I did regret in the initial announcement of this leaflet is that you mainly linked it to labour market cuts, and that is why women need to work more. But there are more reasons for this; pressure on families, on which we have to work, no matter what the families look like, in any form or composition. That has already been deepened in the discussion with Mrs Simons. Wouldn't it be good to take a broader look at what these families need to keep all the balls in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u133	I hear another amendment and a potential logo on the manifesto. I'd really like that. I just told you. If you ask women what they need to work more, that is a financial picture, but also indeed the choice of their own working hours. Of course, that has to do with what Mrs Palland says: neither of us had children in primary school. Then there is the presentation of a project completion on Wednesday morning. Do you have to go to your boss with a note? Then women think: let me save time for that sort of thing and not work full-time, because then I can at least go to the performance and so on. So there are a lot of issues about combining work and private, the family. I think Mrs Palland is right to see how the combination of work and care can be used in such a way that people can apply their skills and talents, including in the labour market. Because, again, we really need them. There's a lot of labor. At the same time, we shouldn't drive people crazy. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u134	I can go a long way with it, but I would like to focus on the fact that it must always be a free choice and that it should not lead the labour market crunch. So we put pressure on women to fill those holes. It has to be a free choice. Let's see how we can support as many women as possible, but also wider: families and families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u135	I don't like pressure anyway, so it's "invite." But I really want to see what makes free choice possible. My hypothesis is that the free choice is a little less free than we sometimes think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u136	The more I look at the pamphlet, the more questions I have to ask. I'm going to dedicate one more interruption to it. It's a sincere question. I am very curious to see which women have answered the questions asked to achieve this result. The women I know, for example, who only care for a child, there are a lot of them... Well, well, let me share it from my own experience: I know very little of this. The VVD is now talking about a situation where we are talking about families with two parents, I suppose, but there are a lot of single working women. I cannot imagine, for example, that child care is not important. I am thinking of the needs of women in professions that we usually pay less fairly for. I don't know if it helps them to talk to their employer about terms of employment every day, every week, every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u137	What is your question, Mrs Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u138	I've already said that, Mr. Chairman. It's a sincere question. Which women are we talking about exactly? Because I must say that I find what I read here a nice but one-sided outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u139	It's okay. I believe that Mrs Simons is asking the question in response to my answer to the previous question, when it comes to childcare and it was not in the top three. This is from research by the SCP, which publishes the Emancipation Monitor every year or every two years. So I'm really going to go to the questioners of the SCP. At least that's one of my favorite research agencies, I dare say. And it's not just about the two parents. Yeah, well, when you say, "Talk about it at home." But if you think it's one-sided, I'd like to hear what you think should be broader. It's not supposed to be like that. Every week with your employer on the table, no, no one probably wants that. Only, the point is that employers are ignoring it very often now. I would like to call on employers to do so more often, not every week, but at least once a year. I think I put that in a motion two years ago. I really want to go to the table and ask "what do you need to work more?', So that you also give women the room to make choices in them and perhaps also appoint conditions. Again, that labour market is very tight. Yeah, you could ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u140	Mrs Simons, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u141	I'll save it for you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u142	I had a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u144	Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u145	Thank you, at least, to the Chamber for the questions. Again, it's meant as an incentive for awareness. I like to think with others about making it bigger. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In education, we often think of a diploma. A diploma, and then you're done. But in today's labour market, it actually starts. A diploma is for some employers the hold they are looking for in the CVs of applicants and for many employees it is what they think they need for a job or another job. But if you're 33 years old, with kids and a mortgage, then getting a new diploma is often not so obvious. Because it takes time, and it also costs money. It may not then be best to enter full-time training. But, yeah, if you want to be a nurse or an IT guy, it's important to acquire new skills. Those skills in the jargon are also called skills... should become the way for recruitment and selection, and training modules. Everything has been investigated for that and there are all kinds of pilots, but I hear from the field that critical mass is needed, more central direction. My question to the Secretary of State is whether and how he would like or can take that direction. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Skills to enter the labour market are also very important for people without work. My group colleague, Daan de Kort, is now going to devote his contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u146	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mr De Kort, VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I have been a Member of Parliament for a number of months now and I have been using recent times to orientate myself on this portfolio. I have done so by making coronaproof a number of work visits and maintaining contacts. That was also necessary, I can tell you, because I have noticed that the Participation Act is complex, that there is a lot going on and that there is also a lot of passion. Passion with employers, passion with policy makers, but especially with the target group itself, which is motivated to participate and participate. I noticed that passion in the sw companies I visited in Oss, Zwolle and Heerlen. The company in Oss will undoubtedly know Mr Peters. I also noticed this passion with the aldermen and advisors of various municipalities, who indicated how they offer an appropriate offer to guide as many people as possible to work. And I have certainly noticed that passion with all kinds of social entrepreneurs, such as Happy Tosti, Brainport Assembly and Kari's Crackers. My contribution will also focus on the shortage of the labour market, as Mr Tielen has just mentioned, but in relation to the assistance and the Participation Act. At the moment, 430,000 people are on welfare. Of these, about 70% are in the welfare sector for two years or more. 430,000, that's as many inhabitants as the cities of Eindhoven and Almere have together. It is the commitment of the VVD to guide as many of those people from the assistance to work as possible. The assistance is a social safety net. It is of course a good thing that there is, but it is even better if people become independent of the assistance and can earn their own money. This requires an appropriate offer with personal attention from municipalities and also more transparency. In the discussions I had with employers, I found that there is insufficient insight into the competences of the people in the so-called card box. My question to the cabinet is therefore: does the government share the VVD's view that there is insufficient transparency in the card boxes and that there is insufficient insight into what competences these people have? If so, how does the cabinet intend to enforce greater transparency in municipalities? The difference between the municipalities is considerable, also in how successful they are in, in particular, guiding long-term welfare recipients to work. We see that there are municipalities that are doing very well. The municipalities of Hollands Kroon, Maastricht and Den Bosch are good examples. But we also see municipalities that are clearly lagging behind. In particular, this becomes apparent in the BUIG funds. We call on the Cabinet to challenge precisely those municipalities which do not manage to guide long-term welfare recipients to work precisely in the tight labour market, perhaps through the BUIG funds, in order to do more and, in particular, to pay personal attention to those people. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State is prepared to discuss this matter with the Minister for the Interior. Perhaps the review of the Gemeentefonds can also mean something here, so that at least we are going to challenge those municipalities even more. Then the early school leavers, because that is also something that concerns the VVD. In the Netherlands we have about 25,000 early school leavers on average. This is a vulnerable target group, which too often ends up between shore and ship. The municipalities and the RMCs follow this group until their 23rd. The VVD thinks it is wiser to intervene on time and follow this group longer. Does the cabinet share this view and does it intend to follow early school leavers longer? As a VVD, we award everyone a starting qualification or at least a practical route training course. That is why we would also consider it important if someone were to apply for a social assistance allowance and not yet in possession of a starting qualification, at least as an appropriate offer from the municipality to make an effort to obtain a starting qualification. There are many good examples in the country. I am thinking of De Koekfabriek in Wageningen or Puik Bouwmarkt in Rotterdam, where shop and workshop come together and artisans learn the craft in a benefit situation. It is precisely this training that can lead to greater independence and independence, and therefore no longer the dependence on that benefit. We may be considering a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to reflect on my long-term vision of how we can empower people with disabilities and provide the space to develop their own talents. The broad offensive has been waiting for a while. It's also a long-term vision. I based it on my personal experiences. Without repeating my entire maiden speech here: in 2008 I suddenly became very visually impaired and disabled at the age of 15. My personal experiences and also the many conversations I have had with Wajangers, lately but also in recent years, have led me to think about this. I have five considerations that I would like to give to the cabinet, so I am curious to hear the response. I also realize that it is not settled from today to tomorrow, but these five points, at least in the years to come, I am going to work for them. From rejection to approval. I believe that we in the Netherlands are looking too much at people's incapacity for work rather than at their ability to work. By thinking in possibilities, we can let people with disabilities develop their talents. Equality and competence must be at the heart of this. The best audio specialists in police detectives are blind and visually impaired. A limitation can therefore also be an enrichment. The best IT programmers have at least a slight form of autism. Once again, a restriction can also be an enrichment. The first point I would like to make is a talent indicator. I think it is important that UWV insurance doctors or municipal labour counsellors cut people off at the decimal place. We must start from people's ambitions and people's talents. And let those professionals also give a mirror to the candidates. The second point I would like to make is that when a provision has been granted by the municipality, it goes along with it in the event of a move. It is now common for disabled people to have to wait unnecessarily for a new provision, which prevents them from moving forward in their study or work environment. The third point is to always make studying possible. This may be the practical route for one person, but for the other the HBO or the scientific education. Let this study be in line with point one, with that talent indication, with the ambitions of people with disabilities and also with their competences. The fourth consideration that I would like to give to the cabinet is the concern of employers. Entrepreneurs are very busy running their own toko. They actually die in the forest of the various rules that exist, especially in that complex Participation Act. So inform entrepreneurs concretely and clearly, and don't bother them too much with those obstructive laws and regulations. Then I come to my final point. I know it's been discussed in this Chamber for a long time. In any case, it is something I would also like to work for this target group that I am involved in. The final point is: work must pay. Too often Wajongers in particular are hampered in their ambitions, because they are then disadvantaged. So I'm very curious about the government's reaction to this. Then, in due course, this can also be included in the treatment of the broad offensive, so that we can put people in their power, let their talents develop and let them no longer be restricted by their limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u148	Thank you, Mr De Kort. I'm looking at the clock, and I think you're all hungry, so I'm suspending for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u149	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u150	Mr. Chairman. There have never been so many millionaires and there have never been so many billionaires in the Netherlands. At the same time, we also see a spectacular increase in the number of people who cannot live up to the wages they get, unable to live up to the benefits they receive, unable to live up to the pension they get. Furthermore, we see an increasingly large group of people who no longer know any certainty about their income and about their work. And there's also an increasingly large group that can't fall back on anything if things go wrong. Mr. Chairman. In this respect, it is really time for social progress and also for a plan to achieve that social progress. It's time to take some big steps. I shall mention a few. The first is an increase in wages. That is what the debate has just been about a few times. The minimum wage remains heavily behind. Wages are very low. There are benefits that people can't live on. It is therefore high time that the minimum wage was raised at a rapid pace. ABN AMRO indicated today, also looking at what has been decided in Germany, that this increase can also take place in major steps. The economy can handle that easily. So we would very much like to see the cabinet move to an acute increase on 1 January. We can't wait for that formation, because then we'll miss another year. As of 1 January, we must take a first step, an increase of 20%. And then we have to move on to €15 in 2025. Mr. Chairman. Also, pensions do not rise with prices. That has everything to do with a large-scale deception that is taking place. It is a large-scale deception that hits workers and pensioners hard. Pension funds must act as if they are poor, when in reality they are very wealthy. Over the past 14 years in which I have been able to monitor developments in the field of pensions, pension funds' assets have almost tripled. It has risen from 600 billion to nearly 2,000 billion. During the same period, pension funds had to pretend that they had no or no return. The question I would like to ask the Secretary of State is: how can it be that pensions have not risen with prices and even been cut in recent years? Instead of putting an end to this great injustice, a pension deal has been concluded whereby pensions will in any case become more uncertain, with all kinds of legal problems, with huge costs involved in the transition to a new system and with insurance companies already lurking towards the billions. Of course, they want nothing more than that money for themselves and their shareholders want the profits, the profits they can make with the implementation of pension schemes. Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, we do not need to include the whole system, which was seen by friends and enemies as one of the best pension systems in the world, in the bulk. No, we need to solve a number of problems, first of all the accounting rules. I was just talking about it. I am allowed to defend an initiative law to set a lower limit of 2%. If the Secretary of State can say here that the government wants to go in the same direction and perhaps want to take over this initiative law, it would save the Chamber a lot of time. Better yet, that would give many pensioners and employees an indexed pension. The second thing that has to change is the grabbing at the top. Salaries of €600,000 or €700,000 in the pension sector are not normal, are they? It is money from pensioners, participants and employees. It is not the case that people there are investing at their own expense and risk or managing the money. No, the risks are for the pensioners and the workers. The fat salaries are for the top. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that the Standards Act should apply to the entire pension sector? Mr. Chairman. Then the strengthening of workers' rights. We've seen all possible investigations and piles of paper come by here. We have had several legislative proposals, but at the bottom of the line the share of flex has increased enormously and not decreased. Why shouldn't we take the step together and say, after six months, people get contracts for an indefinite period of time, a permanent contract? I think that's perfectly normal, because after six months, you'll know what's best for someone and whether you want to keep someone on the job or not. Why shouldn't we take the step to make sure there's much less flex? Why should we not make it more difficult for employers to hire and easily fire people, for example by introducing a firm redundancy payment? It's only gotten lower in the last few years. For example, think again of a monthly salary per year worked. Couldn't we link education to that? If people lose their jobs and use the redundancy allowance for training, it will be doubled so that there will be a huge incentive. Could such ideas not contribute to reducing the flex share? Mr. Chairman. Being able to stop working on time is also crucial. Now we see that people have to work while the body doesn't last. They have to keep working until they literally fall down sometimes. You see disability in the figures increase with the result among other things that there are large queues at the UWV, that there are shortages of medical examiners and that there are all kinds of other problems. Why not say: we lower the AOW age instead of increasing it? Why should we pay the RVU fine for the viewers at home: if you agree to an early pension scheme, do you pay a very high rate of tax on the RVU not reduce it to zero? And I don't mean that we're cutting it temporarily, but structuralally. This also makes it possible for employers and employees to come to agreements together and, for example, for people who have started working young and are doing enormous hard work to stop working after 40 years. Mr. Chairman. Why is nothing being done about the situation of migrant workers? For the past four years, all they've done is slip it with paper. No one's improved. We have the Roemer Committee with the recommendations. The whole Chamber has said: we agree. Then nothing happened; nothing. A motion has recently been passed by, among other things, my party. It instructs the government not to concern itself with the missionary status, but to carry it out, and if that has financial consequences, to submit it to the Chamber. It remains deafeningly silent. A member of the Chamber in trade-K is a choice of the cabinet. Afterwards the minister also left, making the portfolio and the subjects endless. That's not the choice of the Chamber. The choice of the Chamber is that the Chamber considers it so important that something happens to the situation to which migrant workers are exposed in the Netherlands, that it has said: go ahead with this; go carry it out. So I ask the Secretary of State to take that step, for example for a private bedroom and at least 18 square meters. I have seen the situation at OTTO Work Force at the Polenhotel in Boskoop: a room without windows in which two people have to live for €800. You're done, aren't you? Does the Secretary of State agree? Does the Secretary of State agree that there should simply be a harsh demand? Mr. Chairman. Another important point is the voice in the workplace. I can tell you about this in detail, but my colleague, Mahir, has submitted a wonderful initiative law on this matter to the House of Representatives. It oversees real control in crucial decisions, but also a division in profit and co-ownership. If it is difficult or disappointing, a much stronger safety net is needed than is currently the case. Together with the CDA, we have taken the initiative of the social development companies, the successor to the social employment services. I call it the right to a job and guidance. Why isn't anything happening? I am very curious to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on the discussion that took place in the Chamber on this initiative paper. Are there any steps to be taken? In the meantime, I think we all agree that we should abolish this terrible Act of Participation as soon as possible. For example, replace it with a basic wage, where there is no cost-sharing standard and where there is room to start as an entrepreneur or to partly work as a supplement to the income you have. We have also tabled an amendment along with the Labour Party and the GroenLinks. Delete the reduction in welfare, dear people. In the coming period, with these huge price increases and the huge increase in energy costs, assistance will gradually fall every year. Every year, the assistance goes down. At least we can tell each other that that is unworkable and that we have to stop it. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, and I hope that there are many parties who would like to join. When you become unfit for work, you must be at least 35% disabled to be entitled to a benefit. International labour organisations have hit the Netherlands on several occasions. A majority of the Chamber supported the motion of the CDA and the SP in which the Chamber ruled that the lower limit should be 15% and in which the government was asked to draw up scenarios. Where are they? This can't wait very long. We need to move quickly on this. Mr. Chairman. Why has the WW period been reduced from 38 months to 24 months? This would be repaired in collective agreements, but this is happening very little. Why should we not equate this period with the waiting money scheme, which all Members of Parliament have, namely a maximum of 38 months? We could take that step. We can talk about the UWV for a very long time. The SP has organised a hotline for this. 1,200 people have checked in with us. We had a good conversation with the UWV recently. There must be major changes in the coming period. We will talk a great deal about this, but as far as we are concerned, we need to be able to address someone, that there is a point of contact. If you have a problem, the one you're addressing needs to be able to solve that problem. It must have the space and the confidence to solve that problem properly. But we'll talk about that a lot later. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the support that employees and self-employed people receive in this corona crisis. Zzp'ers are heavily abandoned. At the beginning of the pandemic they received a Tozo benefit, without looking at the partner's income. They lost that support in many cases, because the partner's income was going to count. And now they have nothing at all. Nothing at all! Reference is made to the assistance, but this will be subject to a capital test, a partner test as of 1 January, and it will be a loan that you will have to pay back later. That is not a solution for all those people who have to stop working overnight. The VVD said: there's plenty of work. Then why do you support the NOW? Surely the government makes arrangements to support people in their income, in this acute assignment to stop working in the collective interest? I agree with you very quickly when you say that we need to look at how we are going to organise this in a good way for the medium and long term. But now, in this acute situation, there is no time. Now, in this acute situation, we must act and support must be organised. Because it's money people need for their groceries, their rent and their towering energy bill. I really appeal to the VVD, but also to D66, a party that also says to stand up forzzp'ers. There has been little evidence of this in recent years, but that aside. I appeal to you to use this pandemic to improve the situation, and not to accept that manyzzp'ers in this pandemic lose their income and get into deep trouble. Mr. Chairman. These proposals, which I am putting forward here, are also an inspiration for discussions that are now taking place on what needs to be done on the labour market. I want to warn you about one thing. We see more and less everywhere, for example in the Borstlap Committee, a committee that has looked at what needs to be changed in the labour market, and in the ESC opinion. But that is not what this labour market needs. This is what has happened in recent years, resulting in more flex, more uncertainty and more jobs that people cannot live on. There are more situations with false self-employment, in which people are not actually azzp'er, but are forced to be azzp'er without being entitled to anything. Let's start this big change with each other so that soon anyone who works will be able to live through it, have rights and control on the workplace, can stop working on time, with an income that rises with prices. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u151	Thank you to Mr Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mrs Kat van D66. It's her maiden speech, I've been told. Everyone's yelling, "We're gonna sit down for that." Go ahead, Mrs. Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of you is a grandchild of a guest worker. My grandfather was looking for better times, hope and security of existence. Employers were just jumping over these guest workers. And what is good for the economy is good for the Netherlands, according to the government at the time. Unskilled work at the paper mill next to the Koninklijke Hoogovens in the IJmond followed. Family income was mostly filled by the work of his children. And that happened young, with too many responsibilities, so did my mother and my uncles. Every week, the paycheck was delivered unopened to my grandfather. Making money fast, that's what it was all about. Following education was not a topic of discussion. Luckily, my parents didn't see it that way. In that they made no distinction between my brothers and myself: developing their own thoughts and freedom of choice. Why investing in good education is permanently needed, I have experienced myself. A good teacher, Master Willem, was half the homework. He brought me into contact with art, environmental education and sport. Peanutball, bird watching at Thijsse's Hof, painting a la Van Gogh and many presentations followed. Master Willem challenged me and stimulated me to think great and pursue my dreams. Mr. Chairman. This stacker from first-class mavo/havo to university wants each child to have the choice of direction later than now and to have the space for their own learning path that suits the child well. Just like my learning path was. You know, standing up for equal rights was a little early for me. My mother used to say crazy that I owe it to my aunts when I started talking about equal rights for women and girls. But, Mr. Chairman, I think I got it from my father, but mostly from my mother. A remarkable woman with enormous resilience. A role model that ensured the development of my own identity. Depending on others, also financially, they do not wish me. You can stand on your own feet, work hard and make your own money: I got that from home. Mr. Chairman. The story of my grandfather may be 50 years old, for a large group of Dutch people the situation is similar today in some respects. About 220,000 workers are poor, despite an income from work. One in three Dutch people is unable to cope with unforeseen expenditure. The risk of poverty and debt is lurking here. An increasing energy bill, less hours of work or illness can put people directly into serious financial problems. The group of working poor would grow if we didn't do anything. D66 wants to reverse this trend. The most fundamental strategy to reduce in-work poverty in the longer term is to continue to develop and exploit the human capital of the Netherlands. Maintaining a structural improvement in the quality of education, vocational training and the level of education of the working population increases the chances of better paid employment and greater job security for future generations of workers. But it's also about having a good job. A large part of the group of working arms is zzp'er, call force or working on the basis of flexible hours. This gives little certainty about income and makes it difficult to supplement incomes with supplements. This uncertainty has all kinds of negative consequences for the wide prosperity, for health, for children's opportunities and for the ability to build something up in life. D66 wants to offer this group more security, so that they can invest in the future, of themselves but also of their children. Mr. Chairman. There is a high level of non-use of local income support and other participatory schemes, mainly due to ignorance. It's a group that municipalities don't always have on the radar. During the past year there has been intensive contact with them, because of the Tozo among others. I therefore have two questions for the Secretary of State. What have we learned from the Tozo to achieve this group better? And what lessons can we draw for the service to this group? This group also provides for a high risk of bankruptcy if there are no additional aid packages. Zzp'ers are personally liable for any business debts. My questions are therefore: are they eligible for rehabilitation appropriations, and are the municipalities at all sufficiently equipped to help this group better? For the corona crisis,zzp'ers could also turn to municipalities for a loan, the bbz-credit. The interest on this is 8%. This is a particularly high percentage for this target group. The State Secretary previously indicated that this would be necessary to cover the risk to municipalities and to maintain market conditions. I wonder why there is a need to provide market-based credit as a municipality. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that this would prevent distortions of competition, but I think that is very much incited. It is a small group of entrepreneurs who need support. It is intended precisely for entrepreneurs who cannot go to a market party, I ask the Secretary of State. Can he say anything about that? Mr. Chairman. More than 600,000 people in the Netherlands have problematic debts, and an even larger group faces late payments or has little overview of the finances. The provision of services to people in debt is not adequately organised. There's a lot of work to be done here. I would therefore like to highlight a number of important issues. In recent years, the number of people under debt management has increased sharply. We are now talking about a group of about 250,000 people. The right of advice of municipalities on admission to the protection regime is currently only taken place after allocation, whereas in some cases there are rather lighter solutions, such as budget management. If the right of advice is brought forward, municipalities can do more to provide people with the right services. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? There is also little monitoring of the quality of the regime. Too many people stick around. Directors have no incentive to act quickly and properly. Municipalities do conclude a covenant, supported by the VNG, but in fact these covenants do not ensure the quality of service. What is the state secretary's position on a quality label for directors? There are also municipalities that have taken control, such as Groningen. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr. Chairman. Prevention is also very important in dealing with debt issues. The first results of the new Municipal Debt Aid Act show that at least 250,000 signals of late payment have been received by the municipalities. However, we are able to contact only 17% of this group, and only 4% will eventually receive financial assistance. How come we don't get to speak to the other 80%, and what can we do to improve that? Of this group not everyone has to sit in a section of the municipality. Sometimes a small support in the back is enough, for example a training in financial literacy for young people. When they turn 18, they all have to take care of things themselves. Then bills can pile up quickly. That is why it is so important to guide them into the complex world of money matters. The sooner we commit to schools, libraries, associations, neighbourhood coaches and parents, the better it is actually for them. So I ask the Secretary of State whether and how the early warning can also play a role here. Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Participation Act has been declared controversial by this committee. I think it is important that we discuss this with a new cabinet quickly. But I would like to mention one thing here. We have placed a great deal of responsibility on municipalities, but we have not given them the freedom that goes with it, for example to explore new methods to really help people. We see that the law does not provide enough space to really give people who are stuck a new chance. Many municipalities want to take this initiative, but run into the limits of the law. D66 wants to expand the experimental article to give more space for pilots. There is also no overview of which pilots run nationwide, as is the case in the case of debt relief, for example. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make this survey? And is he also willing to actively support the municipalities in setting up and monitoring pilots, and especially in scaling up on success? That is what this is all about. Then one final point, Mr President. Over the past year, the simplification of Wajong has come into force. Although the name suggests otherwise, it has turned out to be quite complex for many people. D66 was therefore pleased with the Information Point Wajong, where people can ask questions. I understand that there is still uncertainty about the financing for 2022. D66 would like to keep the information point. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will also be budgeted for next year? Finally, Mr President. In the years to come, I will stand up for all those people who can't come along so easily, for those who see a letter from the government with concern or who cannot understand it at all, as my grandfather did at the time, and for those who get lost in the multitude of rules. Because strangely enough, we ask most of the people who sometimes have little capacity and who, because of stress due to poverty, debt or life events, have trouble keeping the overview. If you make a small mistake, the control is strict. These people don't have a lawyer or an accountant at their disposal. They need to be able to count on an honest, simple and understanding government, on a government that makes understandable and enforceable laws and on a government that should focus on how people are doing and how policies are working for those people. People need to know where to deal with their problems, but also who can help them on their way. They must have access to the government if necessary, but also have generous access to legal protection against the same government. This is necessary to restore public confidence and to help prevent citizens from getting stuck between the wheels of legislation and governance. That task is leading me. With every law that passes here, we have to ask ourselves: what is the impact of this on the vulnerable? If that answer is negative, you will hear from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u153	Thank you, Mrs Kat, for your lovely maiden speech. I'd like to congratulate you remotely. I shall suspend for a few moments so that all other colleagues can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u154	The head is off for Mrs. Kat. We will continue with her colleague Mr. De Jong, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u155	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I also congratulate my colleague Kat on her beautiful maiden speech. It is also very nice to work with such a passionate colleague. In addition, I am replacing Mr Van Beukering today, who, like many others, is in quarantine. I hope you don't get sick. Mr. Chairman. The extent to which a person is free depends to a large extent on work. Or, where and how much you work, determines how much free time you have, how much money you can spend and how much choice you have to do something else. Freedom means to me that you are certain of an income and otherwise you have the certainty that in the event of setbacks you will see a safety net and that you will be allowed to develop your entire life. In my years as a local politician, I have noticed that freedom is not self-evident. We are on the verge of major challenges. While the corona crisis is taking hold of the country, a coalition agreement is being written that will set our course for the coming years. I am addressing three challenges today: the lessons we learn from the corona crisis, the shortage of labour and implementation. I will start with the corona crisis, which has had an unprecedented impact on our lives and also on the labour market. This also raises the question of what lessons we can take. First of all, I welcome the proactive approach to unemployment, for example with the regional mobility teams. They can help before people get really unemployed. As far as I am concerned, this is a good example, which we must certainly keep after the crisis. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how these teams are doing. What can we continue to learn while the approach is going and what is needed to continue to do so? Another initiative with good results is NL learns through. I have just mentioned the uncertainty of employees: it is not clear whether you can continue to do your job or whether your work may change permanently. With the new lockdown we are now in, it is becoming increasingly real that the economy will adapt further. While jobs stop in some sectors, new jobs are created elsewhere. If you've worked in a particular sector your whole life, it's not easy to do something different. The number of unemployed is falling, while there is a higher number of job vacancies. At the moment there are even more open vacancies in the Netherlands than unemployed. A new record, with the result that fewer people have to do more work, often also in the essential sectors and professions. Stress and burnout complaints have therefore increased considerably during this corona crisis. This can primarily be solved by making good agreements with each other on the workplace floor and also keeping an eye on each other, but it is actually occupational disease number one at the moment. That's why we shouldn't be spinning around like a cat. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there is still any possibility of intensifying information right now in order to reduce the risk of overload and ultimately burn-out. Especially with such shortages in the labour market, it is remarkable that so many people, 4.5 million, still have part-time jobs. The difference between men and women is great. I was pleased with the attention that the VVD just asked for: three-quarters of men compared with a quarter of women have full-time jobs. As far as we are concerned, everyone must have the freedom to opt for part-time work, but above all to work full-time. Women in particular are still facing obstacles. Many part-time jobs are offered in education and care. The classic image that it is up to the woman to take care of the household and the children remains persistent; we had a little debate on this earlier. Too often it doesn't pay to work more hours, because then surcharges will disappear or the tax will rise. D66 calls for more full-time jobs to be created, for full-time work to be encouraged and for work to be rewarded. Think, for example, of better childcare and leave arrangements, so that women have the freedom to work more. Or look at a full-time bonus. I would specifically ask the Secretary of State to look again at these legal possibilities. Being able to offer a full-time bonus has already been suggested as a solution. This possibility would be submitted by the Minister of Health to the College of Human Rights. Does the Secretary of State know the state of affairs? Because we don't have much time to waste. I would also like to ask for one more look at whether a distinction should be made in taxation on the basis of working time. This option has been exchanged here several times, including in this committee, but I would like a clear answer on whether it is legal or not, for example in the case of the self-employed, but also in the case of the low income advantage. In doing so, we make a proper distinction between hours worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u156	Mr De Jong's speech was taken from my heart. You won't be surprised. Mr De Jong has indeed mentioned a number of things that I have mentioned a few times in that wedge. Does Mr De Jong support me? Does he have an overview of what this wedge looks like between full-time and part-time? Or is Mr. De Jong as curious as I am?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u157	No, I don't have all the wisdom here about the wedge. But I do now have some very specific questions to ask the Secretary of State because, like you, I can see that there are really huge opportunities there. I also hope with you that the Secretary of State will reflect on this, so that we can work together to see how we can do it as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. There is one sector I would like to focus on today: childcare. Groups must be cancelled in child care. This is a measure which the sector itself says is contrary to its identity. Good childcare is important for the development of the child and is also essential to ensure that parents can go to work carefree. If we do not solve the deficits here, then a lot of other sectors will also be stuck. More hours of work is needed. Contracts should become attractive by also offering whole days, for example in combination with the rich school day. D66 wants to make good childcare available and keep it for all parents. I read in yesterday's letter that, because of the positive results, the Secretary of State is considering continuing the labour market campaign in 2022. I would say, what is the Secretary of State waiting for? What other factors does he want to look at? What does the Secretary of State need to continue the campaign? So let's stop looking at the cat out of the tree. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final point. On the part of the tight labour market, we are talking about a competitive clause. In a labour market where there are already significant deficits, I still see the competitive clause as a major obstacle in many cases. In some cases, such a competitive clause is necessary, and I understand that. Important business secrets should not just end up with the biggest competitor. However, I believe that too often there is too much use of a competitive clause in situations where this is not strictly necessary, for example in the case of a child care worker who is no longer able to work anywhere in the city. It is precisely when the labour market is tight that workers should be able to benefit from this freedom and choose the best employer. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is now time to actually modernise the terms of competition? What is the status of the discussion with the social partners? Any luck getting an agreement on a variant? As far as I am concerned, I would like to make it clear that this law needs to be amended. I am also considering a motion on that. Mr. Chairman. The success or failure of all the good plans in the world is in the execution. During last month's work visit to the Social Insurance Bank, my colleague Van Beuker became very enthusiastic about Garage de Begoeding, where employees from all corners and layers of the organisation sit together to solve a concrete implementation problem and to see if the organisation still works according to the intention of the law. In that spirit, I have a question of my own about the surcharges. It will be a while before the supplement scheme is reformed. In the meantime, it is important that we pay attention to harrowing situations and resolve them. One example of this is single status holders. They are now structurally surprised with high recovery rates on their child-related budget. The cabinet has even identified some quick fixes. My question to the Secretary of State is what is the state of play. Is sufficient progress being made? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The Social Affairs and Employment budget is always the fence. I know that the hands of my colleague Van Beuker and of the Members here are itching to deal with the important challenges we face, with Borstlap and with the SER advice, and also with the pension legislation for the new system that we can expect next year. I started my speech with a reference to freedom, namely freedom to work, to develop yourself and to recapture yourself. On this eve of challenges, this call for freedom is more relevant than ever. Let us, as a Chamber, respond to this, so that change is not something that comes towards us, but freedom for everyone to determine their own future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u158	Thank you. There is a question from Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr De Jong talking about the shortage in the labour market. That's what I've got to worry about. I also hear him talking about the regional mobility teams that guide people from work to work. But I can't hear him talking about the 430,000 people on welfare. 70% of them are long-term beneficiaries of assistance. What proposals does D66 make to guide the people who are at home to work in the current tight labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u160	A lot is happening at regional and municipal level. Just like you do work visits, I come to the country. I also see the fine examples that lie with municipalities and what can be done at local level. I've learned that it's the most important thing to be able to activate people in that big card box again, so they get a piece of joy from work and have a rhythm in their lives. Above all, we, as D66, would like to give our wholehearted support to these initiatives at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u161	I hear you're also making work visits and seeing great initiatives. It's recognizable. But the VVD comes up with two concrete proposals. I ask the Secretary of State to see how we can use these BUIG funds to challenge municipalities even more. I propose that people who do not have training should have a perspective through a practical route or start-up qualification. But I do not hear any concrete proposals from you. I am really curious what concrete proposal D66 makes to get people to work from the assistance, regardless of the work visits and good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u162	We endorse the question put by the VVD to the Secretary of State, as well as the plea in which you say: we must ensure that people can get a start-up qualification or training course. Those people care about me. I understand that point very well. Giving people something before they can start a new challenge: there you will find me on your way. I would very much like to await the answer of the Secretary of State. With everything we can do to help those people get to work, to rhythm, to joy of life, you will find us on your path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u163	Thank you to Mr De Jong. Mrs Pouw-Verweij has the floor. She speaks for Mr Nijboer. I don't mean "instead." I heard. Before this is another life of its own... Mr. Nijboer is gallant, and then I'm not saying it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u164	Just so you know, I'm kind of insisting. I am not speaking on behalf of Mr Nijboer. I'm sure the PvdA wouldn't thank me for that. But I am very grateful to him and to the speakers after him for letting me lead in the line because I have to leave early this evening. Thank you for that. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kat on her beautiful maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. In this budget, I focus on thresholds for entrepreneurs in the event of default and on pensions. As for entrepreneurs: JA21 has a warm heart forzzp'ers and SMEs. They form the backbone of the economy. The corona measures are hitting them hard. But even without this crisis, there are more than enough obstacles to the continuity of businesses. I would like to make a few comments on the issues of disease and reintegration. Small employers in particular experience great uncertainty about this. In SMEs, lawyers or a department P&D or HRM are not self-evident, quite the contrary. Small entrepreneurs lack the knowledge to identify and address medical problems at an early stage. There is also uncertainty as to whether a long-term sick worker can return to his own business. In a company of modest size, the possibilities for reintegration of sick workers are also modest. If there is only one type of work available, which cannot be adapted to a functional limitation, then it ends. Yet well-intentioned entrepreneurs face heavy wage sanctions for violations that they cannot prevent with the best will in the world. Wage sanctions aren't supposed to be a criminal casino. The current structure of the re-integration process imposes on employers with a small company obligations which they often cannot fulfil. Employer, employee, company doctor and UWV have various interests. It's no different. But it takes revenge on the assessment of whether and how reintegration is possible. JA21 hopes that the new cabinet will quickly start working on the change of the Work and Income Act to work capacity and the Disease Act. Because whether it is arranged on the left or on the right, the current situation is on all sides. Adjustments will benefit all parties concerned. For a small company, two years' pay in the event of illness is hard. In addition to the payment of wages, it is also a question of finding and paying a replacement employee. There's uncertainty about that. It also means a threshold to employ people. The choice to remain azzp'er becomes a necessity choice. This hampers healthy business growth and job creation. Those two years really need to be dealt with. We believe that shortening the payment deadline to a maximum of one year would be the solution. Instead, the cabinet chooses to ease the pain with measures around it. JA21 prefers to tackle the core of the problem. My group suspects that the measures mentioned in the budget to simplify administrative obligations do not sufficiently remove the thresholds I have mentioned. The least that can be done is to prevent entrepreneurs from being sent from the cabinet to the wall. How does the Secretary of State view the establishment of a business window, where small entrepreneurs can get in direct contact with questions about disease and reintegration obligations? So contact someone on the other side of the line who thinks about it. Then there's pensions. In all defiances, this word appears 233 times in the budget. The cabinet promises to work on a future-proof pension system. For JA21, a stable future begins with reliability and certainty now. If our pensions are not future-proof, it is because of the ECB's disastrous policy. If pensions are already under pressure, it is because of an investment policy in which climate goals are more important than investing for a good return. Pension building is meant to build up stable assets for old age, not to make politically good decoration. This is particularly true within a system without the possibility for individual participants to choose between pension funds and to influence investments themselves. Future resilience also depends on the sustainability of our social system in the light of demographics and the composition of our population. Policy choices, including on immigration, continue to address all aspects of society, including questions about pensions. Furthermore, it is of course in the interests of the future for directors to be appointed on the basis of expertise, not because they come from the on-kent-us circuit and already have their own pension in order. For JA21, a pension agreement is not a terminal. It is good that consideration is given in the polder, that there may be agreement on a direction that we can take. But let's be sober. An agreement is not a dictation. Politics has the last word, and that's more than a few scribbles in the margin. This is what pensioners and people who are still building up their pensions can expect from us. My group's commitment is to build a robust pension in a system that leaves room for individual choices and takes into account the interests of different generations. Thank you. I'm two seconds late, sorry, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u165	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Mr Nijboer had already been announced, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u166	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kat on her personal and beautiful maiden speech; from her inspiring grandfather and mother to a flaming argument about the importance of equal opportunities and trying to support everyone who does not get everything directly into life. Very nice and well done and also recognizable in the work I have seen in the past few months by Mrs Kat at the Finance Committee and on the surcharges. Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of the PvdA, you are right, but instead of Mr Gijs van Dijk, who is unfortunately ill. I wish him well, too. We are having the debate with the Secretary of State who also replaces the Minister, who found out during the replacement of the Secretary of State that he actually needed a Secretary of State, even during a missionary period. I wish this Minister and actually ourselves much strength and success in this debate, and I hope that it all ends up on Thursday. Mrs Tielen had already drawn that conclusion and we will see it on Thursday. Mr. Chairman. Do you know the parade of Pen, which has made the Groningen professor Jan Pen world famous? He has the incomes of all people in the Netherlands and in England, because that's where he started, put together. The bigger you are, the higher your income. He left it in a parade or parade. What you expect is that you're about halfway to your waist, but nothing is less true. After about five or ten minutes, you only see the first pieces coming. Because in the beginning, they're entrepreneurs with a negative income, people who don't deserve anything at all. They're actually underground. You're on your waist at three-quarters. Then you're gonna walk on. Then you come at eye level. Then you're sitting on what people earn on average. That's kind of the average height of a man. In the end, you see them getting bigger, five times bigger, ten times bigger. Giants. You can almost break your neck, that's how high they are at the end. Mr. Chairman. This uneven distribution of income applies not only to incomes but also to assets. Then they're still a lot squirrel. There are people with huge debts and people with huge assets. Unfortunately, this is also becoming more and more widespread in society. Health differences: on average 12 years with less good health and on average 7 years before death for people in poor health and with lower incomes. You can also simply relate to income. Education disadvantages: you can see how big they are, and they are getting bigger, in the world and also in the Netherlands. That is a great concern for a Social Democrat like me, and that should be a great concern for all of us. That is why I am starting with the income policy of this cabinet. In recent years, the PvdA Group has had strong discussions with the cabinet on income policy. Basically, where do you choose what we all deserve? On the one hand, you redistribute that with the taxes, everybody knows that; that's why we have a progressive tax rate, and on the other hand, you compensate for that with the benefits and the supplements. This happens on a large scale in the Netherlands, but if you look at the results, you can see that the elderly, the beneficiaries and the tenants in particular have been systematically lagging behind in recent years. And you can also see that the problems there continue to increase. The rents have become increasingly priceless for many people. The older ones are getting harder and harder to live. Poverty is increasing. Homelessness has doubled. This is not to be solved with one purchasing power picture, but if every year there is 1 or 1.5 percentage point difference every year and you do so for 10 years, then the difference has become 10 percentage points. That's what's going on. That is also what worries me with the purchasing power plate for next year. It was already bad, we saw at the Millions note: zero; a zero line for everyone. Economic growth to be expected: 3 to 3.5%. We all have to see it, because there's corona again. But still, 3% growth, 0% in the wallet. Political choice. Divide tax, lower income tax, ball-ball. Political choice: taxing companies less, hitting people for the full pound. And now, with that energy bill, with the expected higher inflation, you can see that people are dropping through their hooves. They're just going backwards next year. I do not think that is possible and that is unwise. And we can do something about it. Mrs Tielen offered room for this in the first term of the VVD. She said: we should actually see if we can fix that, but yes, it needs to be covered. Of course it all has to be covered. There is no one who says: it should just be thrown over the beam. But my fear is a little bit too much. I didn't hear the other coalition party say that that is more the attitude of the VVD in the debates, in the sense of 'we have to be nice to everyone who comes along' than that will be the result later on, Thursday. But I hope that it gets better and that we can really do something about people's concerns. I don't think it's a story that if the economy grows enormously and inflation increases, people just go backwards under a cabinet that's full of "work must pay" and "we all have to profit" and "man, we all have to do it." So I hope that's true, but I... well, good; we're gonna see it. Mr. Chairman. More specifically, I am concerned about the increasing poverty among children. Several colleagues have mentioned that. The question is: does the cabinet do enough to prevent that? There is no one here who pleads that it is wise that children should not be on school trips or that they should grow up in poverty; there is no one who does not recognise the impact of this. But the question is, of course, whether you will eventually do enough about it and whether the plans in the budget for next year will be enough to really bring that down. Next year, of course, poverty has not been resolved. There is no one who claims that either. I ask the Secretary of State: is this going to work with these plans, with this budget? Or should we wait for another cabinet again? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the standards in the assistance, the Secretary of State has announced that officials will be given more room for manoeuvre if mistakes are made. The PvdA Group welcomes that. But we can see that someone at the seizure-free foot still has to apply to the canton court for an exception with a manifestly unfounded statement. I recreated that as well. I did my best this afternoon. You can imagine that that's a dead letter: that if you're dealing with the attachment-free foot, because you're in debt, you have to go to the canton court to apply for an exception because the energy bill is higher. I ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared not only to look at the assistance and benefits, but also to broaden the free base in this way, in order to provide much more space to accommodate people. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second topic. When you live in the Netherlands, you think: they almost hate that you move in together. Yeah, they just almost hate it. While there's a housing shortage. If you live together as an AOW'er, you don't get a double AOW. There are also good reasons for this, because you also have less costs. But if you get a supplement, it is. If you get a child-related budget, it's true. Even if you're in debt restructuring, it's true. So if you add up all these schemes, there's a few more ones, then you think: what's the effect of that? And especially now that we have a housing shortage, is that wise? I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to respond to that once and for all. If you add all that together, does it even fit? And is it still reasonable to take a bite of everything? A bite of AOW, a bite of supplement, and so on. Yeah, well, in the long run, you're crazy moving in together. You don't have to do it with me. People are allowed to live alone. But to punish all the living together, I don't think that's a good idea either. And that seems to be the case. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to give a bit of a fundamental answer. Mr. Chairman. The third problem I would like to raise is the flexibility of the labour market. That is a well-known problem that we have often discussed here. We are the world champion in the Netherlands, or the Olympic champion, as some parties might call it, but we are on the wrong side. There are far too manyzzp'ers who can't make enough money to make ends meet. There are far too many forced self-employed people, there is far too much involuntary autonomy. The annual contract is considered a standard basis, whereas if you're just getting permanent work, you should get a permanent contract. I refer in particular to parcel delivery and mail delivery. There has been endless discussion about this and now it begins from the outset in the parcel delivery. I'm asking the Secretary of State to put a stop to that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to respond to the proposals of the VVD. I think "the woman deserves more" in itself is a nice focus point. It's a good thing the VVD saw that light, too. But they also stuck a bit in the eighties, with a slogan and a PO Box 51 spot. I thought, if that's what you really want, shouldn't you say goodbye to a term like "state crèches"? Mrs Simons has already asked for this. Child care must surely be a public provision. And when you're talking about diversity in organizations and in government, something that the VVD was always in the forefront of anyway, shouldn't you really be getting rid of a slogan like "quotas for fish"? So doesn't it have to be a little bit more, even from the government? Maybe we should go to a more modern work week. As far as the right to inaccessibility is concerned, I have never heard Mrs Tielen make a very warm and supportive plea for PvdA proposals. It's also part of the job that you can combine work and life. Such a proposal as Mr Gijs van Dijk's on the right to inaccessibility is also appropriate. I would therefore hope that, in addition to an information campaign, there is a smart girl prepared for her future, and a little more substance is given to that proposal. If the VVD is willing to do so, we are happy to think about it. I would like to add my name to that, but to a modern vision; the VVD also understands that. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u167	Mr Nijboer continued until Mrs Tielen reported to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u168	That's the point of the debate, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u169	I had a hunch. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u170	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm being provoked. I'd like to do the same for Mr. Nijboer, because he's just standing here instead of Mr. Gijs van Dijk to make a really good contribution. Compliments to Mr Nijboer. But quite honestly: the statements that Mr.Nijboer now assigns to me as saying that the VVD should say goodbye to that, I have not heard for years. In this respect, I think that we may indeed be a step further and perhaps we should listen to each other a little more carefully once in a while. I hear Mr. Nijboer say: I would like to put my name to it. Well, I would like to hear the amendments, in addition to all kinds of own-initiative proposals, which I have already congratulated Mr Van Dijk on several times in warm words. Oh, yeah, sorry, it's been too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u172	I think Mr. Nijboer is a bit negative, but I also hear what Mr. Nijboer says about positive things. I look forward to the amendments to the pamphlet. I thought that was a nice term too, to see how we can actually attract the whole of the Netherlands to this century.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u173	Well, I'm very optimistic on my own. However, in all seriousness it is true that the VVD, which was the country's largest party, was the only party that did not have the abolition of childcare allowance in the election programme and has always turned against public preschool, because that was too expensive. I haven't heard "State crèches" in the last few months, but that was just the term that was put on it. That's not from years ago, that's from the other day. If you really want something, both to avoid the child care allowance and misery and to encourage the participation of women, that is a very important element. I admit I'm making it a little polemical, but of course there is a core of truth in it. As far as the law on inaccessibility is concerned, therefore, you have the right to be inaccessible: I have seen Mrs Tielen resist this in television debates herself. Those are not all the proposals, but they are two out of three. I believe that quotas have gone a little further in the end, but in my Chamber too, 'quotas are for fish' has been used a lot. That's not from centuries ago. I'm not that old. Mr. Chairman. I come to the final theme. In fact, that has not yet happened in the debate, namely: what economic model do you stand for as a country? As far as the PvdA is concerned, that is the Rhineland model. It's not like I've seen this coming for weeks, but this morning I found out that Thijs Wöltgens would have been 78 years old today, if he hadn't died before. Two years ago I was given the Thijs Wöltgens lecture in Kerkrade. He had a very convincing vision of the welfare state and what it takes. That had a few elements that I would like to highlight here, firstly the labour income ratio, so which part goes to work and which part to capital. That is actually the discussion I started with: are people getting enough income or is it going to profit from companies? Then there is the control of employees in companies, to which the SP has also referred to the Fair Sharing Act, which is related. What I would like to add and what was less of a theme at the time is the diversity of governance. That's still important. We can have such a quota in the First Chamber... Still it is the case that in large companies and in Commissioners who resign according to the schedule, in half of the cases sometimes two thirds of the time because you only need 30% of the same 60-year-old man comes back with the same network and there is no regard for diversity. And that's not just about women, it's about backgrounds and backgrounds. That's a bloody shame. This shows every day that the big business in the Netherlands does not take this problem seriously. And that will also be a threat to future employees they need in the company. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u174	Thank you to Mr Nijboer. Mrs Palland from the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u175	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u176	Begin again. The microphone wasn't on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u177	After me, Mr Peters will speak on behalf of the Christian Democrats on the subject of poverty and debt. Mr. Chairman. On 19 November, the Entrepreneur's Day, I visited a beautiful SME family company in the engineering industry in Hardenberg. The son took over the company from senior five years ago and senior is now working as coach for other family businesses in the Family Next project of the province of Overijssel. The production runs between 6:00 and 8:00 and the employees decide how and when they work, as long as the schedule is complete. The responsibility lies with the team. An employer from Enschede with 900 staff said to me: to anyone who comes to me with the request to work part-time, I say "fine, but you keep the same salary." Both situations give a grip on work, an important condition for workers to have fun at work, to experience confidence and to maintain the work, also in view of other balls to be kept in the air in the private situation as a caregiver, educator of children and volunteer. These are good examples of Rhineland thinking, I say to Mr Nijboer. It is entrepreneurship and work not over the back of another, but with an eye for and commitment to your environment and the people in your community. VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands have also shifted the focus to broad prosperity. But the world is not perfect and our labour market certainly is not. In the early 1990s, Lubbers stated that the Netherlands is ill. Borstlap told him that in early 2020. There are too many flex contracts, there is too little commitment to social support and work leadership, employership is not attractive enough, and security of existence and prospects are uncertain for a growing group. We will have to redesign our labour market. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are doing this along the lines of Mr Borstlap's view with his committee. We hope that a new government will really see the impetus for that, and look forward to talking about it and putting it into practice. Mr. Chairman. 100 million additional investment has been made available for the implementation capacity of the UWV. How will the Secretary of State monitor its commitment and outcome and inform the Chamber, so that the implementation of innovations in labour market policy and its instruments does not lead to delays or obstacles due to inadequate implementation capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u178	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u179	In the opinion of that Borstlap committee there are some good things, but the PvdA Group is very concerned about two issues relating to the Unemployment Act: reduction of time and part-time dismissal. In the latter case, you're just working full-time and you can sit at home for two days if things are bad with the company. How are you gonna get along with your family? Good luck with that! Does the CDA want to take over those proposals as well? Or has Mr Hoekstra or the CDA finally come back from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u180	Well, you're talking to Mrs Palland of the CDA and not Mr Hoekstra. We have had a first exploratory debate on Mr Borstlap's report and I am sorry that we have not made any progress. But in that debate I indicated that it is an integral vision: you cannot do one thing and you cannot do the other. We all conclude that there are too many flex contracts and that the employership has been increased and made unattractive. To find a balance, to provide and support people with security, to invest more in guidance from work to work, to offer development opportunities, says Borstlap: you need to get rid of that external flexibility and you need to reduce a little more internal flexibility for it. There's a balance in that, there's coherence in that. Part of the shortening of the WW is that it goes up. The benefit will be increased. I think it is important that we prevent people from "enjoying" the WW and then moving towards that labour market. That's what you've gotten away with, and I don't think that's a good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u181	I know that advice well. That's what almost all report advisors say: take all our advice, because it's all connected. But of course that's not the law of Medes and Persians. As a politician, we can simply say: we like these parts. At Roemer, about labour migration, we like everything. We can say: we think this is good ideas and not that. I think the WW proposals are very bad. I am a little disappointed that the CDA has spoken a lot about this in the election campaign. I live in the North, where there are socially-moved CDAs. They said: my party is torn to the WW and wants part-time dismissal, but I really don't want that. So I had hoped that Mrs Palland and her group would have come back, but I will come home a little from the cold carnival when I hear it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u182	No. Of course, you're free to say: I'm taking out the cherries and I'm putting them in, and I don't like the rest. But we also have a task to do when it comes to making employership attractive. I believe that you yourself have made a plea for this, or it was the colleague before you. That was Mrs Pouw-Verweij. How do you ensure that SMEs can grow? How can entrepreneurs continue to grow? How can you break the threshold to hire people? This is also an aspect of it. Part-time dismissal is, of course, a very violent measure. But look at, for example, the corona measures and the NOW regime that we have created. We have argued from day one: do not design the fire extinguisher during the fire. Make sure you have a part-time WW scheme ready so that you can take it and people can keep their jobs. That is, of course, the priority: more fixed contracts, more certainty. That is exactly what Borstlap is trying to do with its measures. A part-time WW scheme can be very helpful in this respect. That's exactly what gives extra security to people. So I'm looking at something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u184	Mr. Chairman. Then the employership. In order to facilitate smaller employers, SME absenteeism insurance was introduced two years ago. What is the situation with regard to its application in the market? What about accessibility based on premium development? Does it actually foresee the needs of smaller employers? Is it working as intended, as an alternative to reducing the payment of wages in the event of sickness? If that can be evaluated, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. In this budget contribution from SZW, I would like to focus on three themes: family and family, corona and labour market shortages. First of all, family and family. There is a lot of pressure on families to keep all the balls in the air, especially in corona time, in which home working and home teaching or caring for children should be combined. But there is wider pressure on families, also on the formation of families for new generations. Think of flex contracts and poor access to the housing market. They dare not take that step. Flex contracts are the best form of contraception, according to the German Minister for Family Affairs. The question is: do we know enough what is needed to accommodate families and facilitate the combination with work, in which families are taken care of? Of course, we have ideas about this: support for child care is relevant, while maintaining parents' own choices for consideration, more grip on work, choices in working hours, for example, when you work or do not work at home, etc. But it seems to us to be particularly good to do some fundamental research on this and to do some work on it. How does the Secretary of State feel about investigating this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u185	Good question. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers. But when I heard it, I had to think I can imagine that the colleague also gets these e-mails to all those people with their flex jobs. They say: it's such a mess with the childcare allowance, because I have a temp job, then I go back and forth, I don't have a job for a while, and then I lose it. Do you agree with GroenLinks that if we create a future-proof childcare system, we should abandon the labour requirement in the childcare allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u186	I'm gonna have to think about that. I certainly agree that we... I think child care is not just a labour market tool. Let me start with that. It's wider than that. It also has an educational side. We can take care of parents, even if there is no work. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u187	Just for accounting, Mr. Chairman, but I have two more interruptions, right? Okay, check.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u188	You need to ask your questions smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u189	Yeah, and briefly. Now the pressure's really high. I was so into that combination. We know people with flex lanes... we were just talking about Borstlap. It's one of the hardest things. Mrs. Kat just said it great in her maiden speech: these institutions are not well organized. So we're making things very complicated. One of the things we know is that being less focused would be a hugely good idea for the people who have to work and for the wider purposes of childcare. This can be done, for example, by saying that everyone gets childcare allowance, whether you work or not. So you're gonna let go of the labor demand. That would also simplify it. Then I think, when I hear this argument, that the CDA is totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u190	There is absolutely no doubt that this child care allowance is not working properly. A lot of shit has come out of that. We're still in the middle of that. The search is: how to proceed? How are we going to modify the system? That's a joint search. I hear Mrs Maatoug offer one solution to this. That may be a solution, but there may also be other solutions that will give you more uncertainty. I also heard that other colleagues were talking about the fact that there should always be free childcare for everyone. That's what I was thinking. Of course, there's no such thing. We can offer it free of charge, but of course the bill is paid somewhere. It's just a matter of weighing things up. So the whole question of how to set that up is on the table. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue the lessons from corona. We had hoped to move on from corona. The support and the recovery packages have done a good job. However, the CDA believes that we should be better prepared for a new economic dip for whatever reason. Because it's a fact that comes periodically. To this end, we reiterate our commitment to a part-time WW scheme. We have taken note of the investigation in the extensive letter from the Secretary of State on this matter following our motion, for which we thank you. It indicates that from an economic point of view it is undesirable to support employers in their wage costs in the event of cyclical fluctuations. In this way, the economic variant of a crisis regime, which the Chamber specifically asked for, is put aside in our view. However, we can retain jobs and provide security with them. In countries around us, this is part of the socio-economic system. There they see no objections, such as disruption of the functioning of the economy, to strictly limit the crisis regime to calamities, as SZW wishes. We therefore call once again for a regulation to be put on the table. Mr. Chairman. Corona has also shown us where the vulnerabilities lie in the labour market. Young people who need an internship are one of the affected groups. SBB has made a considerable effort in this area, including through the regional mobile teams. Does the Secretary of State also take into account the structural safeguarding of SBB's position in those regional mobile teams? As far as the CDA is concerned, we also involve the experiences of the RMTs in the further planning of the labour market structure in the region to guide work to work. Mr. Chairman. About corona and home-working frontier workers. In order to avoid facing the tax consequences, an agreement was concluded with Germany and Belgium. It was extended several times. Does the Secretary of State also intend to renew this agreement now? What about the support ofzzp'ers? We read that the TONK stays in some municipalities and not in others. Has this budget been fully used up? Shouldn't we draw a line? Finally, Mr President. With regard to thezzp'ers, I am curious to see what is going on with the elaboration of an arrangement for thezzp'ers with an AOW gap that became ill before 2013. I am asking this on the basis of the motion of the SP and the CDA. Mr. Chairman. The labour market shortage is now palpable everywhere. It is both quantitative and qualitative in nature. We expect it to be structural, given the ageing population. In the context of the labour market shortage, I should like to focus on three points. First of all, the mismatch in the labour market and lifelong development. Work changes. We sometimes train for the wrong professions and sectors. Therefore, a good structure for lifelong development is important. Until the end of this year, the "NL learns by" scheme will run. The STAP scheme will be introduced in March 2022. There's a gap in time. How's the Secretary of State handling that? For us, the starting point is to get rid of the mess of individual initiatives and regulations and to develop a fundamental structure for life. In particular, we support target groups such as MBOs and vocational and practical professionals, focusing in particular on supply to deficit sectors such as technology and care. My colleague, Mr Amhaouch, has already tabled a motion on this subject at the time of the budget debate, linked to the Technics Pact. How does the Secretary of State view this? Then there's labour migration. This provides for some of our labour market cuts. The Chamber, including the CDA, has expressed its support for the recommendations of the Roemer Committee several times. That's what we need to do and we want to do. However, it is also important to steer more in what is needed. For which professions and sectors and for what period is this desirable or is it less attractive to other situations? In what way do we steer this, in addition to the labour market test? And, for example, does the report on population growth also play a role in this for the government? Mr. Chairman. Following that, I would like to draw attention to labour exploitation. We also received a report from the Court of Auditors on this. There is a constant search for making the production factor labor cheaper. That leads to excesses. The problem can be tackled more effectively if labour exploitation becomes self-criminal, if the end of serious situations is immediately possible through administrative cessation, if serious harmdoers can receive help and if the inspection develops its working methods accordingly. How does the Secretary of State view this? Can he promise that the Ministry will work with those recommendations? Thirdly, and finally, around the labour market cut, but not least, the people who want to enter the labour market, but who do not succeed, for whom it does not pay or need support. It can't be that the threshold for an employer to bring migrant workers here is lower than to invest in people from the job deal, for example? Or that taking a step for certain target groups is discouraged, because it costs you money instead of producing it? Mr. Chairman. The broad-based but not yet dealt with broad offensive lies on the shelf. A number of points have already been made effective by means of the Collecting Act or otherwise. But can we not get the good things going and bring them forward? That is perhaps not even a question to the Secretary of State, but also to colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another call about Harries, man or woman. There are now 10,000 of these Harries in our country, but I think we can use a lot more. Helpful, alert, realistic, calm, instructing and honest. What a wonderful concept to place people successfully and sustainably, just a colleague who with Harrie training is a buddy in the workplace for people with disabilities and a distance from the labour market. How nice would it be if it was common to have at least one Harrie in every company besides bhv'ers? Mr. Chairman. Finally, our social development companies. Following a CDA/SP initiative, the Court has declared itself to maintain and exploit the infrastructure including the knowledge and skills of these companies. These companies can play an important and essential role in matching candidates and helping people who are now sidelined, including new and other target groups. It is very important, however, that there is sufficient resources available for guidance. That funding is now under pressure. The CDA recommends that, to the extent necessary, some of the corona crisis funds should also be used for this purpose, insofar as they have not yet been used. Thank you, Mr President. I'm handing over the stick to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u191	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Nijboer to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u192	I do not hear the CDA at all about people's purchasing power for next year, which everyone is so concerned about. In Germany, they do have a government. It will bring the minimum wage to €12 next year. In the Netherlands all this seems to be very difficult and impossible, but in Germany it can be done in just one year. That would be something that would help. Does the CDA still come up with proposals to accommodate tenants, elderly people and people with benefits, or does it simply accept -2, -3, -4 for some groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u193	That is a very big issue. It is of course nice to look at our eastern neighbours, where the new cabinet has been able to present it. Who knows what our new cabinet will hopefully present in that area. But it is also true, of course, that steps are already being taken. We have also had discussions about rising energy prices, one of the reasons behind inflation. A considerable amount has been made available to accommodate people, including next year. My colleague, Inge van Dijk, has tabled a motion to allow this to land as specifically as possible in the case of people with a small grant. I understand that its effects will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u194	Thank you. I call Mr Peters, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whoever walks in the Bossche Sint-Jan and looks up to the highest point of the cathedral, there, although painted, sees the eye of God. Wherever you look up, God looks down. In many Catholic families the all-seeing eye hung as a print in the living room with the somewhat ominous text "God sees you" in my eyes. When I was a kid, it always scared me a little. It is not nice to always be watched and especially not when you feel that there is going to be a judgment about everything. Mr. Chairman. Yet the relationship between government and people born on the wrong side of happiness has some similarities with what I thought then the all-seeing eye. The government also wants to know everything and the government actually has a moral judgment on everything. "In trouble you come by making the wrong choices." "Help you earn." "You should have followed the rules." "A man must learn from his mistakes." "How do I explain it to the hardworking Dutchman?" "You're not ready for a home yet," and so on. Mr. Chairman. These are all moral judgments that may be true, but which at least ensure that real aid is not taken for granted. That's unacceptable to the CDA. A human being, I say it every time, is a person in relation to the other, and every human being is intrinsically of value and is part of a community. The word "deficit" alone creates inequality and hierarchy. You're not where you need to get to, and that's not inclusiveness. Mr. Chairman. A man needs security of life: food, drink and a roof over his head, and those who do not get it die. But a man needs more than that: an arm around him, science being part of a community and meaning, the feeling of being more than a willless cork on the ocean of life and being part of a larger story, to matter. Mr. Chairman. During this poor budget, I have a number of concerns which I would like to highlight. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that a human being is not an individual, but a person in relation to the other, that that person is intrinsically of value and therefore always deserves help without ifs and buts, and that we should reflect on that through implicit moral statements by a government remotely risk losing sight of human dignity? How does the Minister see in this light homelessness and the shameful practice of expelling people? Over the past few years, the CDA has been hard on itself to put an end to this. And yes, steps have been taken. The reporting obligation laid down in the Municipal Debt Assistance Act since 1 January is a good step forward, but how does this work in practice? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has filed several motions, along with, among others, Mr. Van Dijk of the SP, to cancel non-recoverable increases in government debt. The execution of these motions does not cost money in the real world. It wasn't invisible anyway, so... Commercial companies would have rejected such claims for a fraction of the paper value. The government doesn't do that. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of these motions, I ask the Secretary of State. At the request of the CDA, studies were carried out on the impact of the cost sharing standard. This research has been carried out and the link with homelessness among young people has simply been demonstrated. Now what? What are we gonna do about it now, I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State. For example, we have had children in closed youth care for years. I do not want to see it financially, but we have put a lot of money, time, effort and energy into it. After a while they become homeless again. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a lot of families in problematic debt, almost one in 12 households. This group is often in unnecessary trouble. The settlement of a settlement takes on average between three and six months, and all this time people are getting deeper into misery, but creditors are also getting deeper into trouble. Now, together with the municipalities, credit banks and creditors, the Minister has developed the Debt Node. This helps enormously, but many debts are made by government agencies such as the Tax Administration and the CJIB. As far as I know, they're not connected to the node. Is it true that self-employed administrative bodies such as UWV and the Social Insurance Bank are also not affiliated? Why not? What is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure that? Finally, Mr President. Anyone who saw an opportunity to climb the dome of the Bossche Sint-Jan and tried from above to look down through that all-seeing eye of God would notice that the perspective is distorted from that distance. Mid-pillars no longer run straight down, but they move towards each other like four X-legs and people look like ants. But why climb upstairs and look down at ants that are people, if you can also stay downstairs to talk to them? Helping people is what you do up close. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u196	Thank you, Mr Peters. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u198	That's what you said with a very deep sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u199	Yeah, he needed to get out. That sigh might be a little representative, too. It's late night. We're here together. Maybe some people are still watching at home, but I don't think so. But seriously, I have to say that over the past few weeks, especially the last few days, I've been watching quite a lot of an empty screen. An empty sheet on my computer. I thought I'd give it a try with pen and paper, old-fashioned. An empty sheet. That's not because I didn't know what I wanted to tell you. I know exactly what I want to say in one of the most important budgets we have, namely that of Social Affairs and Employment. That empty sheet was because I spent the last few weeks looking at colleagues' budget discussions, and I thought: I can't hear the f-word anymore: the formation table. We get a lot of messages in the mailbox of people with problems. I have the very beautiful Quiet here with me. I hope that colleagues have also received them. Here are stories of people in poverty. These are stories from our rich country. These are people who live with us in the village or in the city. They're stories we all know. That makes it very difficult. Also when I walked here again, I thought: what is this budget about? I understand it very well: we have major issues and there is a formation table. But I am also looking at my colleagues in this committee for SZW and our invaders, such as Mr Nijboer, who are doing very well. The issues that we are dealing with in the texts and also today in the introduction of colleagues, including the brilliant input of Mrs Kat................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Peters just said it beautifully: we must be good fellows. Then I think of the traditions in which we stand. I am thinking of Mrs Klompé in Christian democracy. I am also thinking of the shoulders of social democracy on which we stand with this budget. If that coalition agreement is there somewhere, then there is no formation table left to refer to. Then it's the choices we make in this room. Then it is not just the words, not just the considerations, but the choices in the votes. And then GroenLinks will be there, hopefully with a little less sigh. And then I hope the debates are good, but I particularly hope that we will make the right choices for the country. But there is also a budget! I wasn't finished. That budget is about this year. I think it's our job, too. We are missionary, we have budget rights and we are speaking today. So I have nine very concrete points that I think we can pick up now, we have to pick them up now, and they cannot be referred to the f-word. I'll start with purchasing power. I am pleased to be able to support the words of Mr Nijboer, my colleague from the PvdA. Wonderful. Pen's parade. We need to have a big discussion about purchasing power, but above all we need to have a discussion about inequality. But that's what we were just talking about in the interrupting debate. Now we are talking about next year's budget. During the General Financial Reviews we said: there is a problem, because there is a package for energy poverty for a reason. I have to vote on this budget somewhere next week, so I need to know what we're going to do. Is it gonna be enough for the people who have to go to work by car? Is it gonna be enough to pay for the groceries? The loves we see are fierce. So can the Secretary of State say what he's going to do to compensate for that huge inflation? I'm on the Participation Act. Yeah, we're gonna have a system discussion with each other, and that Participation Act needs to be kicked. At the same time, there are also very specific questions before us. I have to say, I was a little shocked by the answers I received from the Secretary of State about not keeping track of judgments. I think: yes, hello, the ruler is system responsible. We say together: we need to know how these laws are applied and what happens to them. Yeah, there's policy freedom in municipalities. I'm sure they're gonna have to take it too. But then we have to know each other: what does the judge say and is that legal framework right? So my question to the Secretary of State is, are you going to keep track of that? And if not, explain it again, because I don't get it. Then there's the room Mrs Kat was talking about in her input. Where we have been diving in the last few months and The Hague is still a little bit, fortunately there are aldermen throughout the country who are simply working on it. Sometimes they have a GreenLeft color and sometimes they have another beautiful color. They say, "Sleeve up, we'll fix it." Just like someone in Eindhoven. That alderman says: in case of concrete problems, we think out of the box. That's not what we should be sending the state's attorney to do, is it? Then we just have to say: that space is there, and if we have to expand that experimental article, then we do. Would the Secretary of State please allow that, and would he please not stand in the way of that anymore? Then here's the subject: snapped. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. And I have to say to Mrs Tielen: it does feel like lifelong dicks. She said it. Then I thought: if Mrs Tielen says it, I can repeat it. I picked up a letter from 1992 the other day. Then I thought: oh, it's an archaic language, but it's about précies the same. Sigh. It is indeed a sigh, Secretary of State. That's what you're hearing. My question is as follows. There is an incredibly good infrastructure with the RMTs, the regional mobility teams. I'm being serious right now. We were just talking about those mailboxes. There are people who say, "I want to get back to work; I want to do something." They don't fall into the WW tray. They don't fall into the welfare tray. They don't fall into the work-to-work tray. These people don't know where to go. Then I think: we have this beautiful infrastructure. Please, let's take the next period, this cut-off period, temporarily providing people with services. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that all people can make use of these teams? While we're at it, I have a tip for marketing: give those things the same name. 'Cause in one city they're called sister, in the other city they're called sister again. Then once you run a campaign, you don't know where to go. That's a tip for the Secretary of State. I wonder what he thinks. "House of labor" I would find a very nice name, but another may, as long as it is clear. Then there's child care. We've talked about that a lot. I also think we should talk more about it. It is extremely important, as the CDA colleague said, not only for the employment rate, but also for the development of children. I'll add: for cohesion, so you don't meet at school, but also at a very early age. I think it is very good that we are greatly encouraging parents through such a childcare allowance. That's what we care about. I am very curious to see what will be in the government agreement on this point. I also like efficiency. So I went to check it out, and then I see that we're all putting a lot of money into it. We think it's important, but I have no idea how much profits are actually being made in the sector. So that's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Do you have any idea how many profits have been made in the last five years? If we don't know that, shouldn't we know that, especially if I'm in a beautiful piece that's been on the train, read that there might be more money going? I think that is a very good idea, but then I think that it has to go to the quality of childcare. So I'm very curious if the Secretary of State knows anything more. If we don't know, shouldn't we find out? Mr. Chairman. Then labour exploitation. It is a word that occurs in the Netherlands. These are practices that occur in the Netherlands. Every time they come by, whether it's in a newspaper report or in an inspection report, we all startle again. Then we think: that this takes place on Dutch soil. The words of Mr Van Kent have been taken from my heart. We say that as a Chamber of Commerce, at least since I was a Member of Parliament, but I also know it from my predecessors, all of them, from coalition to opposition: "Make haste with the Roemer Committee. Get to work. Send the cover. Then we'll check the room. We can handle that. This is too important." I believe that words matter, but in the end we have those words to make choices, to say: we do not want this anymore. I am very curious to ask you, Mr President, how is the implementation of the motion calling for an extension of the criminal law definition of exploitation going? It was adopted by the Chamber during this period. In practice, we often see that the inspection arrives somewhere, sees very violent situations and does not have any tool to intervene. In that situation a shutdown would be a useful tool, I understand from the inspection. My question is: are you prepared to look into it and give it that power? Because we can't just say that labour exploitation is so bad and then add nothing to the instruments? Mr. Chairman. Then the WIA. I expect that we will have difficult and complex discussions about this in the coming period. It is one of the pieces of social security where we went from "The Netherlands is sick" to the new system, which we all find something about, but where we also have practical consequences in our stomachs. I call the social-medical retests. I became a Member of Parliament at a time when we say that the result is extremely important. So I was quite surprised when, in response to my question, the Secretary of State indicated that it was funny, but I charge a little bit, but it's late and I have two minutes left, so you have to have a little fun; I would like to sum up that there is a very practical solution by not reviewing 60-plussers, but that it is complicated. That's what the letter said. Then I think: yes, come on! If we say that this is a huge problem, if the stacks of re-examinations increase, if the problem only gets bigger and if we don't come to new people, when we think it's important that people know what their position is, then it's a shame to say about such a very practical solution that the UWV recommends in a round table: let's leave it for a while? With this budget we can say: go on, we will work on this in January! Is this the whole solution? No. Should we move on? Sure. But let's take this solution. Can the Secretary of State explain that one more time? Finally, Mr President. The minimum wage has already been mentioned. I'm just going to underline that plea. That's so good when you're a late speaker: then points just fall off. Then I can say: I fully agree with what the colleague of the PvdA said. However, I would like to mention the minimum youth wage. In the interrupting debates, we were talking about how to do that honestly. Last week, when I read the message from the ACM that they stopped investigating the price agreements in the supermarket sector, I thought, "Oh, what the hell is going on here?" This sector has made huge profits, but chooses not to increase the wages of its young employees..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I think: then we're doing something wrong and now we're stopping the investigation through the ACM. Of course, we're going to ask EZK, but my question to the Secretary of State is: isn't it time we just increase the youth wage? People from 18 years of age are adults. They work and have to pay the rent. That's all awfully expensive, so they just need to get a decent paycheck. Finally, Mr President. In the 36 seconds I have left and now tap it, I want to say the following. I am very much looking forward to the big debates we are going to have, but above all to the choices we are going to make. We can say that we are doing it for the people of the Netherlands, but then it should not be a lifelong cock. Then there must finally be some action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u200	Thanks to Mrs Maatoug. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that I have eight minutes, but this is the last budget for my group. I think we have a lot of minutes left, so forgive me if I go over those eight minutes. Mr. Chairman. I was raised in an environment that used to be the Bijlmermeer, a dry ground area, where a city district was as it were pulled out of the swamp. An environment where with difficulty getting around was the norm rather than the exception. An environment where the government was previously seen as a oppressor of the vulnerable rather than as a shield for the weak, whatever the government may be. A place where you live very often from month to month, because you can't afford to look ahead. That was my childhood. When I was growing up as a child, but also later as a lawyer, I saw that the oppressive feeling of hardly any security of existence is similar to a swamp that you can't get out of, a swamp that you physically sink into financially, mentally and over time. Mr. Chairman. I'm not the only one who's seen and experienced this up close. For thousands of people in our country, poverty is still a daily reality today. 1 million Dutch don't have enough money for rent, groceries or a good winter coat. A quarter of a million children live in poverty. The risk of passing poverty on from generation to generation is still greater than in families where children have not grown up in poverty. Yesterday it appeared that half of all Dutch households are financially vulnerable. For people who can just make ends meet, a broken device, a separation or the loss of a job can be a life event so the last push in the swamp that you can't get out of, especially in this corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. We address these challenges by providing equal opportunities, training and employment. But someone who sinks into a swamp needs a hand besides all these important things, preferably a hand that is quick to pull someone out. I believe that the government can partly take up that role. It can offer perspective and security of existence to people who try to make something of their lives with good courage, but who sometimes also need a firm hand when life hits them. Mr. Chairman. If we zoom out a little more and translate this into our current economy and cabinet policy, we see a strange paradox. At macro level it looks good, but at micro level it is not always good. If you look from a distance and look at the statistics, the picture, apart from the inflation figures that have just been mentioned, is generally quite sunny. The economy is growing rapidly and unemployment is historically low. The corona support packages have done their job. When you zoom in, you still see a different picture and the details come up. Several people have trouble coming and keeping their heads above water. Many sectors have also really been hit by the corona crisis, and many entrepreneurs have had to take an interest in their reserves and have large debts. Employers have great difficulty finding staff. Despite these figures and policies aimed at reducing undesirable social disparities, the SCP still sees large contrasts between groups with many and few resources such as work, income, training, social networks, cultural capital and health. Differences between people make society unique, but when these same differences lead to unequal life chances or social disadvantages, we have a collective challenge. Such differences are not only detrimental to the people and groups who then draw the short straw. They can also be negative for society as a whole. Mr. Chairman. That is why I am also pleading for political and common action so that everyone can come along, and those who can come temporarily or at all with our society can be supported by all of us. In view of the issues that are going on in the SZW field, I recognise that I urgently need a missionary cabinet. We need a cabinet that works to reduce the gap in the labour market, to strengthen the security of life, to tackle child poverty, and to make the labour market more inclusive. There's a lot of work to be done. In this sense, the timing of this debate is rather complicated, as some have already pointed out. I would have preferred, no offence, to have a debate with a missionary ruler in order to be able to do real business and take steps on all those important dossiers that are before us. Mr. Chairman. However, there are still plenty of points that we can discuss here today, and I am going to ask you about them. I am talking about the labour market, particularly the position of young people and people with disabilities. I would also like to address the problems of poverty and debt and social security. Mr. Chairman. Everyone agrees that there is a need for great maintenance in our labour market. We have been saying this to each other for a few years. Now is the time for serious steps. Everything is ready: good reports from the Borstlap Committee and the WRR, and concrete proposals from the ESC. It's mostly a matter of doing now. So I ask the Secretary of State: is everything well in the scaffolding for his potential successor? What does the Secretary of State see as the most important first steps towards a more balanced labour market? Mr. Chairman. Then it's about kids. There are major shortages in the labour market, especially in sectors of vital importance to our society. For the climate transition, we need a lot of technicians in the coming years. In education and care, the number of vacancies is huge. The art will be to excite young people to work in those deficit sectors. We need professionals, so let's get young people back to their jobs. In the current crisis, the cabinet has earmarked a large amount of money for youth unemployment. What can the Secretary of State say about the results of this? My group has previously called on the cabinet to ensure that the government, as the largest employer, sets a good example by helping young people in traineeships and apprenticeships. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. It is not an easy time for many young people to start on the labour market anyway. You're just gonna have a new job and have to work completely at home. That's a pretty flawed start. It is important that employers are aware of this and that there is good guidance for young people. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this should be part of employers' duty of care towards employees? Can the cabinet include this aspect in the communication about homework? Because working at home is a development that offers many opportunities and can have positive effects, but it is also very important to take into account the risks and negative effects for start-ups, for example. What initiatives are there in this area and what is needed in addition, I ask the Secretary of State. Can he talk to social partners and youth organisations about this? Mr President, next up: the Academy of Crafts. The Craft Academy can play a nice role in educating people and strengthening craftsmanship. The Academy of Crafts now has hundreds of people in training. Where priority was first given to keeping older workers in employment, the Academy of Crafts now also makes the transition to the preservation of crafts and high-quality work. How can we stimulate this development and make this important work more sustainable? Funding for the Craft Academy will end next year, as the Secretary of State knows, but the accumulated knowledge and infrastructure must be preserved for the future. What does the Secretary of State think about that? I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. People with a distance from the labour market. The labour market is remote from these people and not the other way around. We are still far from being able to bridge that distance and achieve a truly inclusive labour market. I am thinking of people with disabilities, people who are not self-sufficient in this fast-paced society, people who have been on welfare for a long time. All people with talents who often want to join. Employers still see them far too little or fear the costs and risks it may bring to employ these people. There is still so much untapped potential and there are so many employers who have to discover how enriching it is to use the talents of people who are still on the sidelines. The social development companies say that next year they will be able to help tens of thousands of additional people to work, as long as they get a budget for the guidance. And that's where it pinches. The sw companies are getting less money for the time being. With the annual outflow of WSW employees, the financial base will be removed from these companies. Social development companies can also guide other target groups to work, but they get very limited funding for this. As a result, the future of these companies and of the SW infrastructure is under pressure. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u202	Yes, Mr De Kort has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u203	I hear the Christian Union talking about more money for social development companies, while you, like the VVD, stand for an inclusive labour market. There's a lot of crunch at the moment. Doesn't it make more sense that we're just going to put these people in the regular labour market? Because this is the time to put those people there. Then we are really moving towards an inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u204	Part of it's true. I think you can put some of those people who aren't currently working at regular companies. That's what we should do. But I also know enough people for whom that is a step too far, for whom the labour market is one step too far. We must also acknowledge that these people are here. I am not saying that they should then stay at home, because I believe that working and participating also works emancipatingly and that people can and should also give certain joys of life. They can also contribute within their own capacity. So I do not disagree with the VVD, but I think that the point of the VVD is incomplete and therefore has no regard for a group that is indeed there. I have been able to make work visits to this in the last few months, and I have seen how important it is to stand up for this group. So I get the point, but at the same time I think that the sw infrastructure can also be of added value for this group. Mr. Chairman. So there is a nice infrastructure to help thousands of people get to work, but we use it too little, by distinguishing between target groups and using too tight budgets. How does the Secretary of State view this? What opportunities does he see for helping more people get to work? And how can municipalities, implementation organisations, regional mobility teams and social development companies work better together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u205	Mr Ceder is touching on a sensitive point with me. I'm totally a fan of social development companies and what all these things could mean for people who have a distance to... No, what should I say nicely these days? The labour market has a distance from those people; that was him. Yeah, I practice and I learn. I would like to know what Mr Ceder thinks about this. Are these target groups? Or should we just say that every human being, no matter where he's in welfare, is just going to work; if you spend three years on welfare, you're going to be there statistically for a very long time, and actually we can use that budget structuralally to help those people? How does Mr Ceder see that? Because I don't really see any financial problem at all. Actually, I'm just seeing profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u206	I do not think that the CDA and the Christian Union differ very much on the starting point that not only does work produce money, but also enables people to develop, to have joy in life, as I just said. I think we should try that at all times. There'll be a group where that won't work. I try to understand and understand the question of the CDA very well, because I do not think we are very far apart. You say that if it fails after three years, you then try...Sorry, I don't know if it will cost you another interruption, but I'm just trying to understand the essence of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u207	No, I am giving Mr Peters the chance to ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u208	It was really me, Madam Chairman and Mr. Ceder. I just didn't do that right. My point is actually: if we simply help people who spend years on welfare, it will not cost money, but it will generate an incredible amount of money, a because you haven't lost that benefit. Some of it could be put to work, and b because of the social suffering and meaning for the people. Your statement was that it's going to cost money that may not be there right now. I would say, let's do it, because it brings you incredibly much joy and money. Besides, we all need these people. It is not a favor to be allowed to participate; everyone should participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u209	I'd like to head in on this CDA move. I couldn't agree more, so thank you very much. I fully agree that investing money in sw companies is not a cost, but that it is one of the best investments we can make as a society. I hope I scored with this. Thank you for this move. But I also really believe that this is also an investment, and perhaps one of the best investments we can make. That is why I would like to draw attention to this, precisely because I really believe that it is important. They say that we can help 10,000 additional people to work. How can we ensure that this investment becomes a win-win situation and that it pays out not only financially, but above all in human capital? Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the subject of poverty and debt. We are a rich country, but still there are more and more people who cannot or hardly can make ends meet. Families who depend on the food bank, children who have to go to school with an empty stomach and young people without a roof over their heads: we cannot accept this. We must make every effort to prevent poverty and debt and to provide early aid if it is to go wrong. Together with Mr Gijs van Dijk, who is not here today, I have therefore prepared an initiative law which obliges the cabinet to halve child poverty by 2030. This means that considerable work will have to be done in the coming years. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at this and what measures are needed in his view to effectively combat and halve child poverty. As far as we are concerned, this concerns all children who live in the Netherlands, i.e. children who have the right papers, but also children who do not have the right papers but who grew up or were born here; those children are also there. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there is also a group here that grows up, goes to school and doesn't really know any other society than the Dutch? Can the Secretary of State indicate how many children this is about? Does he agree with me that when we talk about combating child poverty, it also means something to this group? How does the Secretary of State see that? Mr. Chairman. As far as debts are concerned, my group has more often advocated a rapid buy-back of problematic debts by using remedial appropriations covered by the Guarantee Fund. It is good to see that the cabinet has already made funds available for this. I'd like to hear what's going on with the plans. How are we going to ensure that this fund becomes available to a broad audience, including for people outside the regular municipal debt relief? What about the pilots announced at this point? And how are parties, for example GuiltHelpHelpHelpHear, involved in this? Mr. Chairman. It is important that we just get a good idea of the debt problem. If we have a good dashboard, we also know which routes are effective and where it pinches. My group is in favour of a national dashboard in cooperation with the relevant parties in the field of debt relief. How does the Secretary of State view this? Mr President, I am about to finish. Then the food banks. Following the initiative paper of the CDA and the Christian Union, the cabinet decided to use the European Social Fund. A total of EUR 12 million will be available for the target group of the food banks. That's good news. I ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that besides the food banks, other organisations can claim these funds if they work for the same target group. And does this also apply to the informal food banks, which have proved to be so important? Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say a few words about social security. As you know, we are working with a number of parties on an initiative law to change the "must clause" on recovery and fines into a can-determine or at least broaden the conditions for such a provision. I would like to reach out to the Ministry and the Secretary of State to see how we can work this out, also in the light of the conclusions that the Ministry itself draws. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a point on integration which was raised last week during the WHO. Next year there will be no subsidy for the program Meedoen, which aims to allow newcomers to participate from the azc's as soon as possible. This is a nice program that provides connection and quick integration through volunteering and meeting. Until now, a subsidy was available from the European AMIF funds, but this money will no longer be available next year. Is that right? Has the Secretary of State considered granting a grant in 2022? I like to hear this. I am considering tabling a motion with D66 on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u210	Thank you, Mr Ceder. I now turn to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u211	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kat on her maiden speech, a wonderful speech. I will always remember her as a granddaughter of that grandfather who came here as a guest worker, who in two generations rose to the most honorable place in this society, the Dutch Parliament. Congratulations! Mr. Chairman. Then the content, because it's advent. In these days we think of the coming of Jesus Christ in this broken world. When his mother, Mary, herself of insignificant descent, heard from the angel that she was pregnant with the Saviour, she sang, "He filled the hungry with goods, and sent wealthy away empty." And so it is: Jesus had an excellent eye for those who were weak and vulnerable. That's what He's asking of us in our society. Mr. Chairman. Vulnerability was to be tasted during last Thursday's round table on mourning leave. Many colleagues were there. After GroenLinks and the SGP put this issue together on the political agenda in 2019, broad support is now emerging. I'm really happy about that. We will therefore have discussions with several parties in the coming period in order to come up with a detailed proposal, so that mourners no longer stand in the cold. In any case, the SGP likes to keep this subject warm. That is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. It was promised that the results of the research on mourning in the workplace would come at the end of this year. But a well-introduced journalist was able to tell me that the investigation was delayed. My question is: when is the report really in our inbox? Is the Secretary of State prepared to explore how mourners can be better supported in the loss of a loved one, for example through a municipal funeral window? During the conversation, it was also noted that after the death of their loved ones, relatives suddenly have to pay extra tax or get a substantial recovery of the child-related budget, with a lot of stress and sometimes also debt. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to investigate this financial problem after the loss of a loved one. I would like to get a commitment on that. Mr. Chairman. Then debts. Living expenses of €40 per week, no more opening envelopes for fear of new debts: too many people can talk about that. DebtHelpMate developed a debt dashboard so that local debt can be detected earlier. The SGP would like us to deploy such a dashboard nationwide. This also gives us insight into which routes work best in terms of assistance. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. It has been said before: everything is getting more expensive. More and more people in our society are getting in trouble. Many families, churches and civil society organisations help these people financially. The SGP believes that this interpretation of charity deserves a plume. However, it is common for people who receive support to be punished precisely because they are cut back on their benefits. That's not supposed to happen, is it? My question is whether the Secretary of State could ensure that municipalities have more room for tailor-made work in this area. Can he also see whether and how financial support from families, churches and civil society organisations can be excluded from the compensation with that benefit? I understand that it's not easy, but I'll leave the question to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then 55-plussers. That is also a group in our society that very often does not have it easy. It concerns nearly 150 000 low-income households, without any prospect of improving their financial situation. If this stays the case, an increasingly large group of seniors who are lagging behind will reach the AOW age. They're extra vulnerable. According to research, the reduction of the double tax rebate is, among other things, very detrimental. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he can promise that he will come forward with a response to the research by the Regioplan Bureau on the financial situation of this particular group. Compulsory disability insurance for self-employed persons is still pending. Gifts, such as bread funds, have made a plan for a quick, simple solution to compulsory disability insurance for the self-employed. By investing in joint safety nets, by making the deposit deductible or by linking it to the self-employed deduction,zzp'ers retain their freedom, but are encouraged to reduce risks of incapacity for work. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this plan. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine the feasibility and possibilities of this? Is a collective basic provision also an option for all workers in the long term, as the Borstlap Committee recommended? Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is another vulnerable group: those with disabilities who are helped to work through a wage cost advantage. We have recently heard that Max's application was only rejected for one example because he had previously been internship with the employer who now offered him a job. The argument was: you could have gotten a wage gain for the period prior to the employment, so you're not entitled to it anymore. That's what I call a cat in the bag. I'd say, if only there were more employers like Max's. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that these young people should also be able to benefit from a wage bill if they have already had a holiday job or an internship with the employer? Mr. Chairman. This was an agreement between Mr De Jong and me, which is why I think he is laughing. But I made the deal. (NL) Mr President, I should like to conclude entirely. I started with the praises of Mary and I end with the praises. For Mary sang even more than I just indicated, for example: "My soul exalts the glory of God; my spirit may gladly call the Lord my Saviour." After all, Jesus was not only her son to Mary, but also her Saviour. That made Mary, despite living in poor conditions, very rich and joyful. The reason why Jesus came to this earth was also to save what is lost. Thus, Chairman, my Advent wish for every Dutchman is that he should not live in poor circumstances, but that he should experience the joy of Jesus as Saviour, just like Mary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u212	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. I call Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kat is getting a lot of compliments today. On behalf of the group of DENK of course also from this place a compliment for her maiden speech! Mr. Chairman. Equivalence, that's what DENK is on earth for! DENK is for greater equality between rich and poor by sharing wealth better and fighting poverty hard, for greater equality between people by fighting racism and discrimination with firm hands and also for equality in rights and obligations by ensuring that our government also treats every Dutchman equally. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with equality between rich and poor. Research shows that half of the Dutch people are financially vulnerable. Half! More than one in ten households cannot survive, because the income is insufficient. Of course, this cannot be separated from the fact that the cost of living in the Netherlands is getting higher and higher. The groceries are more expensive. The health insurance premium is rising. Fuel prices are rising. The energy bill breaks record after record. Life has become almost priceless for a very large group of people, especially now that inflation is rising. I therefore agree with all those colleagues who have called on this Secretary of State to restore purchasing power. We can't do to Dutch people that they're getting so much worse at this time. Mr. Chairman. Nor can we accept that the most vulnerable people in our society are the victims of this. As a result of Rutte's policy, the inequality between rich and poor in our society will only increase in the coming years. We've already noticed that a single member of the welfare department, according to the Nibud, just went down hard on Prinsjesdag. According to the SCP, existing policies will increase poverty by more than a quarter in the coming years. By more than a quarter, poverty will increase if we continue to do so. I sincerely ask the Secretary of State if he thinks it is justified to leave the country, with these poverty projections, to leave the country more unequally than when he found it. Mr. Chairman. The main cause of this increase in poverty in the coming years, says the SCP, is the reduction in welfare benefits. That's tough VVD policy. People who are already struggling, who have a vulnerable income position, are caught hard by the VVD. I ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with DENK I do not think that this is right, that we should stop this and that we cannot accept that we are going to let these people go backwards in the future. Of course, we agree with all those parties who have pleaded for a higher minimum wage. That is one of the solutions to ensure that people improve in purchasing power in the coming period. It also means that the government should not take tough action against people in a vulnerable position. The cost-sharing standard is, of course, an embodiment of this. Just think of all those single mothers or fathers in the welfare services that have to choose on their child's 21st birthday whether the child can stay at home. That cost-sharing standard is just a sample of a scheme. We ask the Secretary of State if he shares that view with us. And what is the situation with the removal of the hardnesses from the Participation Act, to prevent people in the assistance who get a little bit of money from loved ones to make ends meet from being considered a fraud? This Secretary of State has taken a first step, as we read in his letter. But shouldn't there be any more? We have seen all these unjust examples of people getting gifts and then being brutally tackled by the municipality. Mr. Chairman. Combating poverty and disadvantage also means doing justice to past mistakes. DENK therefore continues to argue that the large group of Dutch Surinamese who have come to the Netherlands after 1975 and are cut off on their AOW and therefore have to live by an AIO that is subject to restrictions, should receive compensation. Does the Secretary of State share the view that we have a moral obligation to help this group of Dutch people with an AOW-hole, and that we should not hide behind legal struts, because these people deserve our moral help? Mr. Chairman. When there is money to fight poverty, it is of course also important that it is spent on it. The latest Benchmark Poverty shows that municipalities have spent less on minimum schemes in the past year. In many municipalities, budgets discuss each year whether under-spending on the poverty budget can be used for other purposes. That was always DENK a thorn in the eye. Does the Secretary of State share the view of DENK that it is finally time for poverty funds to be earmarked for municipalities? This is what DENK has been advocating for years. My colleague Kuzu has always done so with great conviction. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second issue: equality between people. Dutch people with a non-Western migration background have as much as 40% less chance of getting a response to an application, says the SCP. Let that settle for a moment: 40% less chance of getting a response to a job application. The hard reality is that with a non-Dutch sounding last name I think that's a terrible term, because as far as I'm concerned Kuzu and Azarkan are just as Dutch as De Jong and De Graaf are 3-0 behind on the labour market. This is why we need to step up our efforts to combat labour market discrimination in the near future, starting with the labour market discrimination team at the SZW Inspection. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. The absolute occupation of the labour market discrimination team in the SZW Inspection does not fall, but in relative terms, the occupation declines from 3% to 2%. We already found 3% of the total occupation of the SZW for labour market discrimination inspection rather modest, and that goes to 2% in 2023. Why is this the case? How much does this say about the priority given to combating discrimination within the SZW inspection? And what is actually being done with the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan, which runs until this year? Are we going to continue with the good policies in this area in the coming year? It is, of course, extremely frustrating for DENK that the law on equal opportunities in recruitment and selection has been declared controversial by this Chamber, which means that we lose valuable time every moment to do something about discrimination. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that companies that have been irrevocably convicted of discrimination should be nailed to shame by naming-and-shaming. A motion by DENK has been adopted to make more work of this and I have been waiting for some time for it to be implemented. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how he intends to take more effective names and shams for companies which have been irrevocably convicted of discrimination. Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, it is also important to establish a firmer standard against discrimination in the workplace. Discrimination at work is included in the Arbowet under psychosocial work load; it is not explicitly included. Nor is discrimination explicitly mentioned in the Arbo decision, which further elaborates psychosocial labour taxation. Does the Secretary of State share the view that if you want to set a clear standard against discrimination, you should explicitly mention discrimination in the Arbo Act and in the Arbo Decision, in order to ensure that companies do more to combat it? On this point, we are considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. What has this government learned from the premium crime? This is a crime in which Dutch people have been wrongly regarded by the government as fraud and people have been discriminated against on the basis of their nationality. Unbelievably painful. I'm just gonna drop right in with the door in the house. Can this Secretary of State DENK ensure that fraud control within the assistance does not discriminate against people? We know that municipalities use commercial agencies to have only people of Turkish nationality checked for assets abroad, for example. We know that municipalities apply risk profiles that discriminate against age and gender. And we know that the Central Board of Appeal has stated on several occasions that this kind of municipality will act discriminatoryly. But it's still happening, and a lot of what's happening there is a black box. Whether or not it comes up depends on people in court. Not everyone does. What is the Secretary of State doing to prevent such discrimination? And should not the outsourcing of fraud control by municipalities to such commercial agencies be prohibited? Why do we have commercial agencies chasing people for their assets? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what he is doing with the finding in the VNG report that almost 5% of the municipalities that make risk selections, nationality and ethnicity are part of the selection. Thus, 5% nationality and ethnicity of the municipalities applying risk selection apply as selection criteria. Can the Secretary of State assure me that all these municipalities have now stopped classifying people on the basis of their ethnicity and nationality as a risk of fraud? Can the Secretary of State assure me that? Mr. Chairman. What about the principle of non-discrimination within the integral control carried out by the SVB on the AIO? At first, there was an order. First Turkish Dutch came to the turn, then Surinamese Dutch and only completely behind the line came people with the Netherlands as their native country. I ask the Secretary of State if he can show me whether all these groups have had the same treatment. Have the same samples been used in each group and the same research has been carried out in each group? In the internal SVB documents of this fraud control I have the document here as a recommendation to me I have to read, I quote: persons with the country of birth Greece or Bulgaria appear to pose an increased risk. Let us take this into account: people with the country of birth Greece or Bulgaria appear to be at increased risk. That is in this internal document of the SVB. I read it and I went straight back: what am I reading now? My group chairman, Farid Azarkan, has been here fighting for people who have been destroyed by the Tax Administration on the basis of their nationality, and I have to read this. What kind of crazy is this, I'm asking the Secretary of State. Why does it look like this place is just being profiled on homeland? In this context, it is recommended that a risk profiling system be established on the basis of this observation. How can I read in your letter of 6 July that you are literally saying that a risk profile may be based on the criterion "a country of origin other than the Netherlands"? That's a quote; that's literally what it says. If I read it correctly, people with a country of origin other than the Netherlands of this State Secretary may rather be considered a risk case for fraud because of a model. I sincerely wonder why this kind of seemingly discriminatory dung is allowed. I sincerely ask myself that. I am therefore considering a motion on this point to prohibit it. Mr President, I would like to conclude by echoing Mrs Maatoug's F-word. It is high time we started talking about choices that are going to be made here. In any case, I have already given this Secretary of State a number of choices which we believe should be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u214	Mr De Kort has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u215	After the SP and the CDA, this is already the third party in favour of abolishing the cost-sharing standard. I would like to make another sound and also ask a question. Because when you live together, you share common costs. The VVD considers it only logical that the benefit should be adjusted accordingly. The law provides ample opportunity to offer tailor-made solutions for distressing cases. Of course, we have to keep it that way. So what exactly is the problem according to DENK?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u216	One of the examples is that Mr Peters has just indicated that research shows that it leads to homelessness. In my speech, I have just given an example of the painful choice that people have to make when a child reaches a certain age: the child has to leave home because otherwise you will be cut off on your benefit. For DENK, it's always a balance. Of course you have to handle our money sparingly. Of course, you always have to fight fraud. But that also weighs against the social benefits and the social side of the story. I understand that in the VVD the emphasis is mainly on dealing with people, dealing with our money as sparingly as possible and not assisting people who are struggling. At DENK we also look at the human side and we think that some extras can go to people. For a measure that does not yield so much, we do not have to accept such draconian consequences for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u217	That leads to a second question from Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u218	A very brief response to that. I've been an alderman myself, so I know this is decentralised. The local government is very close to the citizens. The law offers enough space to deliver real customization. I think we're gonna want the same thing, but you're gonna change the accent. Customisation can and must be offered, but let us maintain the cost-sharing standard, because it is not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u219	I think we differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u220	I get that impression, too. Then we'll go to Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u221	I think that I and my colleague from DENK do not disagree on this, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u222	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u223	...but before it looks like it's a little disagreement, I'd like to interrupt. I was very pleased with the factual answers we received, so I would like to compliment all the officials who have worked on them. I saw a very nice table there. I'll be brief, Mr President, but my question to the Secretary of State is: didn't that table scare you? Because that shows the following, so I say just to make the accent difference clear. A single person with a child over the age of 21 now gets €18,453. That would have been if we had not reduced the double tax rebate and did not introduce the cost sharing standard - flat cuts - €27,126. So that's not about small differences. Those are the differences that explain homelessness. I think I know what the honourable Member's answer is, but I am asking: how do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u224	It is, of course, a very justified point that Mrs Maatoug raises. Under the leadership of the VVD, so many measures have been taken. You are right to refer to the cuts in the assistance that has been made that are simply hitting people hard in the wallet. As far as DENK is concerned, it is unacceptable that, as a result of this policy, we are faced with a Netherlands in which the inequality between rich and poor is only increasing. I think that Mrs Maatoug and the DENK Group will often find each other on that point in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u225	Thank you. Mrs Den Haan, Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to colleague Kat for her beautiful maiden speech. I've divided my contribution into cubes this time. I thought it might be useful for the Secretary of State. I start with the labour market block, then volunteering, then purchasing power and then pensions. Mr. Chairman. The labour market. There is a shortage of staff in many sectors. The care, the construction, the hospitality, the education; the vacancies fly to your ears. Unfortunately, despite good intentions and measures, older workers are still often discriminated against, both when they are fired and when they are hired. In fact, in a tight labour market as we have it, this group is finding it difficult to get a job. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is necessary to focus on increasing the employment rate of this group, and that policies against cuts in various sectors of the labour market deserve public support only if the potential of older workers has been exploited as much as possible? So, no support for a sector that older people can, but does not want to use. There are measures such as STEP and SLIM, but I miss a specific plan for tailor-made work for older workers, both to keep their jobs and to get back to work. However, specific plans for women in top positions, for participation of disabled people, for immigrants and for youth unemployed people are being used. That is very important and I very much support it, but why not a sustainable plan for people who have to work for years until retirement age and who are barely seen by employers after 45? Mr. Chairman. Sustainable employability is under way, including education and health. There is therefore a policy towards the employee. That's good, and that's good, but what does it do if employers don't hire these workers after a certain age, usually 45-50 years? Is it an idea to come to an agreement with employers' and employees' organisations to do everything possible to get 45-plussers back to full participation in the labour market and to remove all prejudices that still exist? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. One of the arguments for a higher AOW age at the time was that there were too few people to work. Now we still see that older jobseekers are hard to get a job. Mr. Chairman. I read in a recent study by union CNV that Professor Joop Schippers even states that many employers prefer to remove vacancies rather than accept people 50 years of age with disabilities. Let's do something about that. Show that older workers are an asset instead of a burden. Studies have repeatedly shown that older workers are as productive as younger workers and that they are really not sick more often and are extremely loyal to their employer. In addition, they bring with them a lot of life and work experience and knowledge. Research also shows that when young and older people work together, this is good for the atmosphere at work. Mr. Chairman. Under Minister Asscher there was an action plan to help 50-plus job seekers get to work, with Ambassador John de Wolf. Minister Koolmees has also launched an action plan from the Ministry, which is now almost complete. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what the outcome of this is. Then I have something else about older people who also want to put their hands up, namely under the block of volunteering. I got a letter from a 64-year-old lady who, after 46 years of working, is now unemployed. She doesn't apply, but she doesn't get hired. Now she wants to make herself useful as a volunteer at a care organisation. That's a great idea. After a few tests, which went very well, she officially applied for a dog and asked permission from the UWV. The latter went wrong; that was rejected. Healthcare settings are not an ANBI or SBBI organisation and therefore should not be allowed by the UWV. This is crazy, isn't it? We need people who can support care. People like this lady should be welcomed with open arms. But this lady, who wants to volunteer, is discouraged. And it's not the only e-mail we've received. Surely laws and regulations should not get in our way? I myself volunteered in the care sector to help. On Sunday I supported care in the rehabilitation center near me. There are so many extra hands needed in the care. Let all the people who want to do something and who are now looking for work just get to work. Laws and rules should not and should not stand in the way of this, especially now that such a pandemic is taking place and each additional pair of hands gives relief in the care. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then the block of purchasing power. Each year and again it appears that the purchasing power plates are obsolete even before we are discussed. This time it is due, among other things, to local charges, higher energy costs, as well as to high inflation. There has been a major difference in purchasing power development between workers and non-workers for years. I have already mentioned it in the General Financial Reviews: workers have improved around 20% over the past year and pensioners are down 1%. The rack's long gone for pensioners. It is really time to put this delay right. Of course, this can be done by significantly increasing the AOW amount. We need to raise the minimum wage. Before Mr. Van Kent walks forward, we're on the same page in terms of amount. Since the AOW benefit is linked to the minimum wage, it also has a positive purchasing power effect for pensioners. Could the Secretary of State perhaps make an inventory to inform the Chamber of various policy options to reduce the disadvantage in purchasing power between workers and non-workers? A lot has already been said about the cost sharing standard. I've resisted it for years. When parents and children start living together or already do so, I believe that benefits should never be reduced. It is not possible for parents who have been caring for a child with disabilities or illness for years to be cut off from their benefit. If we are to pursue a participatory society, legislation and regulation should encourage this rather than hinder it. Is there an understanding of the impact of the cost sharing standard on the housing market? In my view, the cost sharing standard contributes to the housing shortage, because people should keep two addresses from a financial point of view. The cost sharing standard also contributes to poverty. This is also reflected in the Kansrijk Poverty Policy report, which states that the financial benefits are overestimated. We should encourage people to take care of each other. This prevents people from making more use of care and support. The cost sharing standard does not contribute to an inclusive society where everyone should be able to continue to participate up to an old age. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the last block: pensions. In December 2020, Minister Koolmees delivered the draft law on future pensions. The new pension system allows for a faster indexing process and for greater participation in prosperity. Of course, there are also hooks and eyes to it and we will probably discuss them again in the coming year. It is now a year later and I honestly wonder what is going on with the further process of pension legislation. Can it be clarified? I hear that in the field, the support for the new system is falling considerably. We're gonna be right back where we started. This is certainly not going to help the pensioners. The motion I submitted to the General Financial Reviews to index as early as 1 January 2022 instead of 1 January 2023 at 105% instead of 110% was dissuaded by the Minister of Finance and did not make it. But I am glad that the proposal tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk has succeeded. However, two thirds of pensioners have still not been helped, because they get their pension from the four largest funds, three of which do not reach 105% at all. I am referring, for example, to our former nurses, former police officers and former teachers, who are certainly going to miss indexing. What can the Secretary of State do for these pensioners? 5.6% inflation in November, the highest figure in this century, makes many pensioners gloomy. I can imagine that, as a result of the inflation rate published today, the unrest among pensioners is rising almost as rapidly as inflation itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u227	Thank you to Mrs Den Haan. President. - I call Mrs Simons. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would of course like to begin by congratulating former co-counselor and now co-member of the Chamber, Mrs Kat. We worked well together in Amsterdam and I look forward to doing the same here. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna use the f-word, too. Because these f-partners do not feel the urgency to abandon political games in times of crisis and to quickly arrive at a functioning cabinet, we are today debating a Social Affairs budget that makes the security of existence for 2 million Dutch people anything but priority. I don't give a shit. As the number of millionaires increases, on the other side of society lives a huge group of Dutch people who do not benefit from all the growing wealth. As Mrs Den Haan said, it is the elderly who do not see their pensions indexed. It's the working people with flex jobs. It is all Dutch who live on a low benefit. That's what it's been about today. It is the 2 million Dutch who live around the poverty line, many of whom are also in trouble because of a complicated surcharge system. It would benefit 2 million Dutch people if we decided to raise the minimum wage to €40 per hour. I hear someone screaming €14. Did I say 40 bucks? One can dream.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u229	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u230	I would vote in favour, but that is another question. $14.40? The SP is from the compromises, I hear. Whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u231	Mrs Simons, don't be distracted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause I gotta get back to the serious tone and the serious face. This cabinet makes other choices, and as far as I'm concerned, they're disastrous. The result of the policy choices is that millionaires become richer and richer. Similarly, the result of the policy choices is that a growing group of people is finding it increasingly difficult to keep their heads above water. But the need is high, because we have rapidly rising energy prices, rents, care premiums and.... that is much discussed today.. a falling purchasing power. Life is becoming increasingly difficult for many Dutch people, especially for this huge group of people. It is really important that today, formation or no formation, we make other choices and therefore make the choice to increase that minimum wage. A large group of students and young people aged 18, 19 or 20 are also included. They're just starting work. They study, they go to college and they have to pay for a roof over their heads. They have to squander hard to make ends meet and pay for their studies or training. They're mature, with all kinds of duties, but they can't count on an adult wage. In addition to the principle that every adult should be able to earn at least an equal wage, we are talking about a group that almost the entire Chamber thinks should be spared. In September, all the parties except myself, I would almost say: of course, the VVD voted in favour of a motion by Mr Dassen, myself and other colleagues to abolish the debt system and recover the basic exchange. I would like to say that not only words, but also actions. Because of the still ongoing formation it is not rushed at all, while in the real world, outside these imaginary walls here, the bunker in which we are in, this large group of youngsters still struggles every day to keep their heads above water. Here too, as a Chamber, we can make a choice between injustice or security of existence. When we talk about this security of existence, I also come up with a subject that has already been discussed today and which we have not yet discussed with BET1. Just imagine it for a second. I am talking about a policy rule, in the midst of a rural housing crisis, a crisis that should not have been there, forcing young people out of their homes. Those are the same young people I was just talking about, namely the young people of the student debt, the young people of the low minimum wage, you know. Such a rule is simply indestructible. This is also the view of the municipalities, which indicated last week that they were no longer able to maintain and want to get rid of it. However, this cost sharing standard still exists. This has to do with the fact that the cabinet is not rushing the formation, because that is the reason why the conversation is held off professionally. But the urgency for the abolition of that measure remains, formation or no formation. That is why I will also wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled by the SP on this issue. In addition to the working poor and welfare recipients, pension recipients are the third largest group among poor adults. Politics has been called upon for years to increase pensions at last, after years of stagnation. It simply cannot be explained that there is EUR 1 700 billion in the pension pots, but that pensioners are not getting anything. The Labour Party has already advocated the indexation of pension funds with a policy coverage rate of 105%, with effect from 1 January. We hope that the indexation of other pension funds will also be on the formation table. Security of existence is also a common thread in issues of integration and integration. I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Van Baarle, on the questions he has just asked the Secretary of State. By the way, I really enjoyed the whole contribution. While I'm at it, Mrs Maatoug, you went well today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u233	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u234	Excuse me? No. I usually walk to the bathroom when you speak, because I like to combine the useful with the more pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u235	You can't follow this. If there are still people following this debate, then this is not for them to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u236	They must have missed something for a while. I think Mr De Jong is going to repeat that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u237	I repeat what Mr De Jong asked. He asked, "What about us?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u238	Sylvana Simons also looks very relieved. I'm glad we still have a positive influence on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u239	Please continue, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u240	Because of time, I will not go into this overestimate. Anyway... I indicated in an earlier debate that the commitment of six rulers to tackle a lot of problems in their entirety was hopeful. Unfortunately, this hope was quickly dampened by the announcement that the choice of a more intensive and more structural approach lies with a subsequent cabinet, a cabinet that we still do not get. We've been five months. There's still no cabinet. The problems have only gotten worse. Important decisions are constantly being postponed. BE1 therefore hopes that a number of specific conclusions from the report will be embraced by a subsequent cabinet, focusing on deeper causes. For example, I hope that there will be talk at the formation table about structurally embedded attention to group-crossing connecting stories and institutions. Take, for example, the realization of the slavery museum, but also the establishment of a ministry for equivalence, or an extensive study in which stories about anticolonial resistance heroes from Dutch history are excavated, expanded and archived in collaboration with representative organisations. Unfortunately, despite the positive appreciation of the cabinet, my motion did not speak on this issue, but that does not necessarily prevent the forming parties from simply taking over. I hope that there will also be talk at the formation table about ensuring equal opportunities for all, regardless of anyone's background. Several social watchdogs, such as the ESC and the CPB, argue for this, as do my party. In this context, it would like to see a firm approach to internship and labour market discrimination. I look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State to the questions asked by Mr Van Baarle. I also hope that attention will be paid to the new Law on Integration. That has, of course, been a necessary correction to a disastrous law. That law expected newcomers in this society to buy their own integration if you sent them out with a bag of money. I am very pleased that integration is returning to municipalities, but there must be sufficient budgets for that. We have heard that municipalities are threatening not to implement the new law if they have no clarity before the end of the year. Don't blame them, because this government and its predecessors have already thrown enough laws on the fence to the municipalities, forgetting to give enough money. My question to the Secretary of State is whether these municipalities have any clarity. If not, when will they get it? I hope that there will be talk at the formation table about promoting the connection with the society of people who are part of the integration process. Research shows that many newcomers lack this connection in their integration process. It would help to facilitate these contacts through voluntary buddies and civil society organisations. Much contact and guidance by established citizens should, if necessary organised, become part of the integration process. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the security of living of migrant workers. We have already talked a great deal about the sector. This is because the laws and regulations are being systematically and systematically violated. Trade unions are prevented from accessing the workplace, thus avoiding contact with migrant workers and thus not knowing what their rights as employees are. People are kept in an uncertain working and income-dependent situation, because work and housing are linked together by one and the same, often malicious, entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs make a profit by forcing huge residential costs while at the same time reducing employees' incomes to far below the minimum wage. Wages are not paid in full, there is unliving accommodation at too high rent, the care costs... well, yes, good. The care is often badly arranged. In many cases, once the migrant loses his job, he automatically loses the right to accommodation and care. That's just outright labour exploitation, you'd say, because these abuses still can't be prosecuted through criminal law. So I await with regret how the next cabinet will take up the motion that I tabled together with Mrs Maatoug, on broadening the legal definition of labour exploitation, but in the meantime I am very grateful to Mrs Maatoug for the initiative to take steps before that to put an end to these misguided practices. I very much hope that we will have broad support for this both from the outgoing cabinet and from the Chamber, which is therefore missionary. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. When we talk about security of existence, we must also talk about security of existence in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Under this government, the number of citizens living in poverty on Bonaire, Statia and Saba has increased rather than decreased. We have heard several times from the outgoing Secretary of State BZK that the government has taken steps to combat poverty in these islands. He always refers to the social minimum benchmark. I would like to ask again what his explanation is for the fact that this benchmark has been set some 20% to 30% below the actual cost of living, and how and when it will be met. In the same vein, I would also like to hear an update on the initiatives the cabinet would have taken to reduce these costs on the islands. The fact that Bonaire, Statia and Saba do not benefit, as is the case in the Netherlands for example, is raised to 70% of the statutory minimum wage, because such an increase would otherwise remove the incentive to work. I really have to say, that's absurd. In the context of our colonial past, weighing social security against the supposed need for a labor incentive is there I say it; there she goes again neocolonial. Such a balance is based on the assumption that people would collectively stop working at the time the under stand is raised to 70% of the minimum wage. That's bullshit. The Ombudsman also says that. Everyone wants to work. Finally, Mr President. It's not the first time I've said it, but finally, sex work. Sexwork is work. That is why I am once again in favour of decriminalising sex work so that we can effectively monitor and enforce where crimes, sexual exploitation, economic exploitation and trafficking in human beings take place, while protecting sex workers across the board. That is why my question is here to bring sex work and related dossiers to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, because the better sex workers as professionals are strengthened legally and socially, with the same rights and protection as other citizens, the more effective we can tackle the abuses arising from trafficking in human beings and exploitation. Security of existence should apply to everyone, including sex workers. Thanks for the coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u241	Thanks to Mrs Simons. Finally, Mr Omtzigt has had to wait a long time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe you're wondering why I'm standing here today. Actually, I'm kind of wondering the same thing. This has to do with the fact that we can speak here, but that a new cabinet is being negotiated somewhere. If there were a cabinet in a normal environment, we could talk to a cabinet about the need to ensure that there are no social problems. A missionary cabinet can be given assignments, but we have seen several times today that because things are on the negotiating table, parties prefer not to make decisions about them here. Nowhere is that as painful as in the Social Affairs budget, because it is a constitutional task to ensure that there is security of existence. That is a task for all of us who are in the Constitution, who will be hanging here when the Bureau carries out the motion, alongside all that ground that is already here. 'Cause he's giving us an assignment. Many people in the Netherlands are struggling to make ends meet. You saw yesterday that large groups of households are very, very vulnerable. Today we see that the preliminary inflation figures have reached 5.6%. In the Tax Plan, we assumed that 1.3% of the tax credits and the discs were sufficient. On the Millions note, we thought inflation would be below 2% this year and next year. We have therefore made all the policy on this subject. We have had the purchasing power cards this morning; I have shown them before in the debate. If inflation is 3.4%, all groups in the Netherlands fall below 0% and everyone suffers loss of purchasing power. If inflation is 5.6%, we are at a loss of purchasing power of 2% to 3%. But because a lot of people have a lot of fixed expenses stuck in them, you can't cancel your health insurance, you can't cancel your rent, so that means 10%, 20%, 25% less disposable income. For people at the bottom, that means heavy blows. Yes, we had an energy company today that said: our bill only goes up by €28. That was a with a fairly well insulated house. And b they had already very cleverly taken off the government's compensation package. So it was €28 after all the extra things the government had done. If you go to the pump, you have to pay almost €2 for a liter of gasoline. And everywhere... The groceries are getting more expensive. The import and increased prices of container transport also make a lot of goods sold in other shops more expensive. And we can see that. Your livelihood is in danger, and you can't live off the minimum wage. In Germany, where they only started forming a government in October and are already out of it, the minimum wage is raised to €12 per hour. In France it is already €10.03 per hour. And in the United Kingdom, you know, that liberal paradise, it's going to be 9.50 pounds, fat €11 an hour from April. In the United States it saves by state, but in California it's $14 or $15; it depends on the size of your business. And in the Netherlands we increase it by, yes, €0.14. Not €14 as Mrs Simons meant. No, we increase it by €0.14 to €9.96 on January 1. The Nibud indicates that you can't get by and that if you have two older children between 12 and 18 of a welfare allowance you can't get by in any way. And we'll talk about it. There is a social problem in the Netherlands in 2022. We have an economic growth rate of more than 3%. People who own houses walk in. And at the bottom, people are having a hard time making it to the end of the month, month after month after month. I am talking about workers, pensioners and certain categories of people with benefits. So I make a compelling appeal to this Secretary of State. Almost all electoral programmes propose an increase in the minimum wage. Almost all of our neighbouring countries have done so. Does the Secretary of State intend to increase the minimum wage by 4% on 1 January? Does he want to increase it by 4% so that at least these people won't lose purchasing power? I would like to hear a positive answer to that as soon as possible. And what does the Secretary of State intend to do for this security of existence, as we go down 2%, 3%, 3.5%? It's the worst since the early 1980s. There's gonna be a committee on security of existence. I am pleased with that, because everyone here is talking about one percent more or less, but the real question asked Mrs Maatoug. She forgot to mention that the transfer of the tax rebate by one of her previous party leaders was dismissed as a "court grant" in order to abolish it. That's why people can't make a living right now. We all didn't do things right here. I myself have been in coalitions for years, so Mrs Maatoug can interrupt me here for an hour with a list; let her not worry. But the question is, can you make ends meet if you're a single earner? Can you live as a single parent if you have to raise two or three children? In many cases, the answer is no. Can you make ends meet if you come into an institution early with young disabled people, and have a little over €300 a month pocket and dressing money? You have to be able to pay for your own health insurance, your own phone and your own things. The answer is no. Can you live on less than $1,000 minimum youth wage when you're 18? You're supposed to be working, but you can't even find a room for €400 in the big cities. The answer is no. That's why this committee is important. I ask what is the situation with regard to the setting up of that committee. What's the timeline? And how will we ensure that there will be a genuinely independent advice later on? We must avoid always talking in the air, and we must ensure that standards are set. We need to recalibrate the social minimum, on which you can measure the social security system and on which you can measure the tax and supplement system. Mr. Chairman. I come to a second point. I come to a bit of what Mr Van Baarle said about the surcharge scandal. I think he called it the premium crime. That's embarrassing. In a rule of law, the rights of many citizens have been shamefully violated. And what do we see after today? A committee which is not entirely independent has been appointed. We see that the inspections that have missed this for 15 years can investigate what has gone wrong. Sorry, I say to the government, we have had Minister Donner, the former Vice-President of the Council of State, investigate what went wrong with the childcare allowance affair, and we have seen that further research was then needed, namely the parliamentary inquiry. Today, we've seen that you shouldn't have a former Secretary of Defense and the one who sent soldiers to Afghanistan investigating a trial that he himself started. That doesn't mean anything about his abilities, but it says something about the question: are you independent in this file? Will the government please waive this investigation? And does she want to look at the causes of the removals? Did those people have legal protection? And here's what I'm gonna say to all these great NGOs. The whole Chamber talked about these NGOs at the BuHa-OS organization. These NGOs stand up for children's rights in every country in the world. I haven't heard from these organizations about hundreds of removals that were probably unjustified. What do you mean everyone in this country is looking at other countries when it comes to human rights violations? I'd like a commitment to that. Then a second. When the cabinet fell, you know, that was before we started negotiating ten months ago. A motion was passed to see if there are any other places where there are major problems with the rule of law. We mentioned it in the motion. I call it the WIA. Where are they? That investigation isn't on the ground. That motion states that there must be a hotline, that citizens must be able to report and show what has gone wrong. It was the judge who said: if someone becomes unfit for work in the first year, you have to pretend to have had an entire year's income, otherwise he will only get €200 or €300 per month for the rest of his life. We know that in 2011 we were hit by the ILO, because we are lower than the international minimum standard for disabled people. Let me give you an example. If you become less than 35% unfit for work, this may seem to be low, but it may be because you have an accident at work and end up in a wheelchair, you may be dismissed in this country and you will not receive a benefit for the rest of your life. The ILO has been clear that we should not do that. I voted in favour myself at the time, so I wouldn't agree that this is on another sign. We need to see where the weak spots are, where people drop through the ice. Do you want to launch this research properly and ensure that it does not become external, but independent, and that citizens, and we too, can make ideas about it? Think of ideas or mistakes in removals, errors at DUO, mistakes made at the IND, and how people are affected by..................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Then, when that new cabinet finally arrives, I have no idea when it will be possible to have some good things ready so that we can put this country back on a solid, social footing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u243	I thank Mr Omtzigt. I thank all my colleagues for their input in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-30-tweedekamer-29.u244	We're going to end it right now. We will then listen to the reply by the Secretary of State at 10.15 a.m. on Thursday morning.
