ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we move on to the next two-minute debate, on non-preservation by NVWA at export collection sites. The first speaker is Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Since 2008, this Chamber has often talked about animals that are seriously injured or put on transport abroad to be slaughtered, and about the NVWA which should be strictly checked at all times that no animals are being put on transport, but cannot handle that at all. But still the NVWA puts curls in transports of sick and injured animals, despite the Minister's repeated promise of improvement. Mr. Chairman. Many of these animals have been milked to the last penny, have been given dozens of pigs or have laid hundreds of eggs until they can no longer. They are so terribly exploited that when they first see the outside air on their way to the slaughterhouse, they can't even stand on their feet because they are exhausted, injured or sick and yet are put on transport. Against the rules in transporting these animals, or as the Minister calls them "end of career animals," is not an incident. This is what it looks like to exploit animals on an industrial scale. The NVWA approved this transport. Consumers in the store buy meat, dairy and eggs with on the packaging images of cheerful, happy animals, as if they were voluntarily inseminated, willingly gave up pigs or calves and jumping to the slaughterhouse. Mr. Chairman. Let us now be honest about the hundreds of millions of animals used in intensive livestock farming in our country. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that milked dairy cows, explained laying hens and sows which have produced dozens of pigs are to be regarded as "high risk animals' for transport to the slaughterhouse because they are "by definition in suboptimal condition', according to an audit committee investigating this;]] [[noting that the Minister for Agriculture considers it important for consumers to know where their food comes from;]] [[noting that the government has chosen tobacco products to show clearly the consequences of smoking;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to show consumers what animals look like when they have been exploited to their maximum extent throughout their lives for meat, dairy and eggs production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, I would like to ask the messenger to hand over these photos to the Minister so that she can use them for this campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I would ask you, in future, to stay within the time limit, to submit the motion first and then to pronounce on the text attached. Thank you. Then we go to the next speaker, Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's still early in the morning, so I won't describe the footage that recently came out about what's happening at the slaughter export collection sites. During the debate we also discussed smart camera surveillance, not only in slaughterhouses but also in export collection sites. The Minister has promised that she will examine whether this can be involved in the legislative proposal prepared in connection with camera surveillance. Will we, as a Chamber, be informed of this for the committee debate NVWA so that we can discuss this with each other? That is the first question. Then there is the second question. More stringent measures have been taken. Is the Minister also prepared to see if they have any real effect, for example by reporting to the Chamber how many reports of unworthy transport animals have come from abroad in order to be able to speak with each other during the committee debate on NVWA or have they really had an effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, too. Then we come to the next speaker, and that is Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I have three motions. I'm gonna try and get it through real fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the European guidelines, non-transportable pigs remain on the holding, although they are of slaughter quality and should nevertheless be euthanized;]] [[noting that from 2022 onwards, the MDU, the mobile killing unit, will become available for cattle farming;]] [[Whereas pig farming does not have such a solution;]] [[Whereas euthanasia of animals for slaughter is a food waste;]] [[calls on the government to work together with the sector to find a solution for pig farming in order to avoid food waste for animals for slaughter which, according to the European guidelines, are not transportable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in many cases, the NVWA does not directly report the observed infringement to the economic operator concerned;]] [[noting that the announcement of an administrative fine is an average of six months and that such a long term does not constitute a prevention or learning effect;]] [[noting that, in the event of such a long period of time, the economic operator is affected in his legal position because he can only object after a period of six months;]] [[invites the Cabinet to amend the procedure whereby the NVWA, in the event of a criminal offence being found, immediately reports this finding to the trader concerned and the NVWA subsequently announces an administrative fine within a maximum of four weeks, after which the trader has the opportunity to object in accordance with the legal deadline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that complaints from foreign veterinary authorities are often reported to NVWA too late;]] [[noting that the NVWA subsequently does not or very late reconnects foreign complaints to the farmer;]] [[Whereas the absence of rapid feedback deprives the entrepreneur of the opportunity to conduct his own research, to learn from it and, if necessary, to take preventive measures;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to agree with the NVWA on a very short-term basis with foreign veterinary authorities to return complaints about non-transportable animals within four weeks;]] [[invites the Cabinet to amend the procedure for handling complaints, whereby the NVWA passes a foreign complaint to the entrepreneur concerned within one week of receipt, so that he can carry out his own investigation and take action as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1221]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1222]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Then we come to today's last speaker. Oh, there is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	I have not been able to take part in the committee debate, while I have spent some 14 years in the field of NVWA problems, but I would like to table a motion. Mrs van der Plas was also granted that yesterday, because she cannot participate in everything either. I would therefore like to ask the Chamber if I can table my motion, which is very necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Let me look at your colleagues to see if they have any objections. I do not see any objections at the moment, so you will be able to table that motion later. But before we go to you, we will first go to your colleague, Mr Van Campen of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for the commitment during the committee debate on enforcement in slaughterhouses, including in the context of a three strikes out system, a point system. Because if there are abuses in slaughterhouses, we want the number of warnings not to be endless, but to be quite clear what rules we have to comply with each other. Carefulness is important. It is important that the slaughter takes place in a proper manner for the animal, but also for the quality of food. So we look forward to the Minister's reply on that point. The second question I would like to put to the Minister, Mrs van der Plas, has also just tabled a motion on the European guidelines for the transport of livestock. In the debate, the Minister made it quite clear that enforcement is carried out on the basis of these European guidelines and that the sector's protocols, which are necessary for this purpose, are an operational development. That is reassuring, because, I think, we would not want any headlines on rules that have already been drawn up in Europe. Yet this is experienced differently by the sector. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what progress has been made on the sectoral plans that have been drawn up. Can we stop the zero tolerance imposed by the NVWA at the moment when it is drawn up? Then the sector will know where it is going and pre-established rules will be drawn up clearly for business, so that Mrs van der Plas has already given it to animals for slaughter. As a result, I am also curious to hear the Minister's reply on the motion tabled by Mr Van der Plas on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you very much. Then we go to the last speaker in this two-minute debate. That's Mr. Graus from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to all colleagues. I'll start by reading my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide surveillance cameras in the fight against the extreme animal suffering of export collection sites which, in relation to privacy, may only be viewed by the animal police and animal welfare teams of the NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would like to add something to that, Madam President. I mean the following with "watched only." You'd say it's the footage that can be watched. But I also think that these direct camera images should only be viewed by them and also looked back. Then we won't have any problems with privacy. Liberal parties are freaking out about cameras and privacy. But if they are only viewed by the animal police and the animal welfare teams of the NVWA, then nothing is wrong. Finally. The MDUs were an idea of mine, I think from when I was just in the Chamber in 2008. Then I asked for those mobile killing units. My intention was... we're for carcass transport. Most of the trouble occurs during loading and unloading during transport. Poot fractures and other conditions; it is often terrible. I understand from a lot of vets who are expert on the matter that you can avoid a lot of suffering if you are going to transport a carcass. So you're not going to transport animals that are meant to be "target animals" alive. That is a very nasty word, but unfortunately it is. I don't blame myself as a vegetarian. But there are people who want and do so, so there should be a good solution for the animals. That's what I want to ask. I'm so embarrassed. I came up with those mobile killing units before anyone talked about it. Now they're taking advantage of it. I have a lot of trouble with that. I want the Minister to investigate its abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you, too. Then I'll take a look at the minister to see how long she needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	Welcome back. I'll give the Minister the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the motions first and then with the questions. So I'm gonna do it the other way around. Then the members will know the order. First of all, I come to the motion on part No. 1220 by Mrs Vestering. There are abuses in the sector, at all the links in the chain. That is exactly what we are doing: making sure that improvements are made there. As far as I am concerned, it is also about reporting what is going wrong and where the improvements are really still needed. This is not just the responsibility of the government, but of the whole chain. This motion calls for consumers to see what animals look like. We have oversight, which also reports. We are really in favour of increasing awareness of where the abuses are and what needs to be done to improve them. That's what it's all about in the end. This motion asks only to make it clear. In the light of everything we are doing, I must discourage the motion, but I would like to emphasise that transparency, including from the chain itself, and honesty about what is happening to me is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	The motion in part No. 1220 is not recommended. There is a question from Mrs Vestering of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	The Minister's talking about our supervision now. We have already seen how this monitoring has been carried out in the Netherlands, also on the basis of images. There are still sick and injured animals being transported abroad. The motion explicitly calls for all those who buy meat, dairy and eggs to understand what these animals looked like before they went to slaughter. That is a very clear question. I think it fits very well with such a smoking campaign: what you see is what you get. Is the Minister willing to take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	There are texts in the motion on how animals look when they have been exploited for the production of dairy, eggs and meat throughout their lives. I know a lot of farmers who handle their animals very well. The suggestion of this motion that there is only maximum exploitation, I think is a reason to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	Finally, Mrs Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	The audit committee has said that these animals are by definition, so always, in a suboptimal condition. The Party for Animals is about making that clear instead of those stickers with all cheerful animals, because they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	I don't stick stickers with happy animals either. The motion in part No. 1221 asks whether we also want to use the MDU in pig farming. Let me outline the process. The use of an MDU is privately arranged. A private party must apply for it. That application isn't there yet. I understood that a party is looking at the use of the MDU in pig farming. At the moment when such an application comes, the NVWA will see if it can supervise it. It is also a question of capacity. We've talked about that before. This motion suggests that we organise it. That's not true. That is really something that comes from the private parties and the NVWA then looks at how they can make the veterinarians available for that. That's the order. In that light, I must therefore discourage this motion, but if there is an application, we will, of course, assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	The motion in part No. 1221 is not recommended. Mrs Van der Plas van de BoerBurgerBeweging has another question about this. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	The motion states: "Asks the cabinet to work together with the sector to find a solution for pig farming in order to prevent food waste for slaughterable animals'. Whether it is via mobile killing units or not, it is at least a solution. Pigs or pigs are now euthanized on the farm when it is found that anything is going on with it. Some of those animals may have an abscess or something else, nothing that wouldn't allow them to be transported, but they are now being rejected on the farm. Those are euthanized and then that meat...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	Sorry, I'm getting to that now. The meat, or the pig, must not then be processed for consumption. That's an ultimate food waste. My question is, therefore, to read the motion in a way that talks are going on with pig farms about how this can be resolved, because I assume that the Minister also does not want animals to be euthanized and that then nothing happens to them. They'll go to Rendac.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	Firstly, it is the responsibility of the sector itself to ensure that animals do not have to be euthanized. In some cases, that may be the case. It happens. We have to be honest about that, too. But then we have rules on how to deal with it. The MDU is an opportunity to kill the animals that are not transportable on the farm, but I would really like to sit down for a while: make sure that they are in such condition that they are transportable. This is, I think, a real responsibility that the sector can take on itself. If they come up with proposals themselves, we will always look at them, but we will always look at them in that order: it lies first with the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	We have, of course, already debated this; we do not need to repeat the debate. What if a pig has an abscess on the side of the body? That could happen. That happens in a lot of animals, and it also happens in humans. If that's the reason to euthanize the animal, while an abscess has nothing to do with whether it's transportable or not, I'm assuming the Minister finds it annoying. That's my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yes, but I have described in detail how we deal with this and that it is also up to the sector itself to come up with proposals if they think there are other options. Then the motion to part No. 1222. A project is currently under way to improve the lead time. We're working hard to improve it. I propose that we discuss this further in the next debate on NVWA. There are really very real deadlines here, and we need to see if that actually works. I'll support the thrust of the motion. Then we have two options. One. The motion shall be held until the other debate has taken place. Two. If Mrs van der Plas does not want to do so, I would like to read the motion in such a way that it is about improving the lead times, without being completely tied to the number of weeks mentioned here, because that is just too strict. Perhaps Mrs Van der Plas could amend the motion and get the exact deadline out. Then I could give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	I'm gonna consider that. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	Because the motion is so strict over the number of weeks, it has been dissuaded in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yes, we need to be clear about that: until then the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yeah, dissuade it. But I think we heard each other right. Then the motion to part No. 1223. That's the same thing. Here too, it is important that I also support the fact that we are getting quick feedback. There is very soon a conversation with the Belgian NVWA, the BFSA, to see how you can do that feedback faster.We would also like to do so so that you can act on it quickly. Here again, the motion is a little too rigid, with "a week" and with a feedback within four weeks. We really need to discuss that with the Belgian NVWA. But if I can read the motion in such a way that we are trying to improve the processes and if Mrs Van der Plas is prepared to take the deadlines out, then I can also give this motion a Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	The same applies to Mrs van der Plas, I hear her say. If the motion is not modified, it is dissuaded. The amendments referred to above may give it the opportunity to be judged by the Court of Justice. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 1224.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yes. We're getting more and more camera surveillance. Mr Graus has always worked hard for this; that is right. In this motion, he asks that the images be viewed only by animal police and animal welfare teams of the NVWA. We want these companies to look at these cameras themselves to see what is not going well and what needs to be done better. So I do not think that what the motion is asking for is the intention. The company itself must take action on that. On how the NVWA deals with this, we have already exchanged a number of things in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	There are some problems with the microphone, but it's working again. I always thought that button was more convenient; I miss it. I'd like to get rid of that phrase. I added that purely so that my motion has a greater chance of being adopted by the Chamber, because I know that the liberal parties say otherwise: no, you should not; think about privacy. The VVD caught me on that a couple of times. So I'm gonna add that sentence, because then the motion will make it into the Chamber. So, of course, I'd like to get rid of that. If it has to be and may be viewed by more people, then of course I am in favour of it. I meant well, Madam President. So I'm gonna take that line out. Then the motion gets judgment room and then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	Let me be clear: these cameras hang in slaughterhouses. So that camera footage is also formally owned by that company. We have also had a debate on whether that is the property of a company and how the NVWA then handles it. Should the NVWA be able to get the footage, yes or no? I made a promise about that. But the first action is that the company will look at the images itself, because they will make the improvements themselves with their animal welfare officer. This motion suggests that those images are from the NVWA. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr Graus explained his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	Now I don't have a sound again. Man, that microphone sucks! It looks like an old DAF from the old days. Madam President, I am removing that phrase, 'only allowed to be viewed by the animal police and animal welfare teams'. I'm gonna make that go away. So there's gonna be a new motion that I'm sending around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr President, I do not know what to judge anymore. We have really had a whole debate about cameras, about how they are used, about who the images are and about how we can make sure that it is also smart camera surveillance. There are all kinds of steps in that direction, which we have also said will be included in a legislative proposal. I'll come back to that in a minute. I just don't know what Mr Graus means anymore. So either he serves a motion that is very clear... But I don't know what to judge anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	Then the motion becomes simple: calls on the government to provide surveillance cameras against the extreme animal suffering of export collection sites. And then we're done. I really can't be any clearer. This is really clip-and-ready. There's really nothing unclear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	We have already discussed this in the debate: that we are also going to see how we can do that. In that debate, I also mentioned how I would inform the Chamber about this. This motion is getting ahead of itself. I understand that Mr Graus could not attend the debate. He could also hold the motion. There will be another letter for the next NVWA debate in which we will discuss this further. Then I would like to ask Mr Graus if he could make his point in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (28286 No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	Then there are a number of questions. First of all, Mr De Groot's question as to whether, for the next debate on NVWA, we can indicate how we intend to deal with camera surveillance in the legislative proposal. I can promise. I'll inform the Chamber about that. This also applies to his second question on how many reports come from abroad about non-transportable animals. I will also send the information I have to the Chamber. Mr Van Campen had another question about the sector plan on the operationalisation of the European directive. On 10 September, the day after the committee debate, there was a discussion between the NVWA and the sector. The result was that the sector would develop a protocol on the basis of which animals which are mildly injured or ill but for which transport does not cause additional suffering could in the near future be certified by NVWA again. From the inspector-general and the director Keuren of the NVWA I understand that they had a discussion yesterday with the chairman and the management of the Vee & Logistics Netherlands and that that was a good talk. On the basis of the progress of these talks and whatever has been exchanged before, I am confident that the NVWA and the parties concerned will also come out in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	And that is a question from Mr Van Campen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	Very briefly. That sounds good. But could the Minister perhaps give us a closer look at what that means for applying this zero tolerance if those protocols from the sector are indeed on the table in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	So when those protocols are in accordance with what has been discussed and what the NVWA needs, animals can also be transported that are slightly injured or ill but for which transport does not cause additional suffering. So, based on that, you could transport those animals. On this point, too, I can assure you that, as soon as I know more, I will inform the Chamber about this for the next committee debate. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	That brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	We will proceed immediately with the next two-minute debate.
