ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35367, Amendment of Book 2 of the Civil Code in connection with the invoking of a period of reflection by the board of a stock exchange company. We need the Minister's answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. We are indeed talking today about the introduction of the reflection period for stock exchange companies. I would like to thank the Chamber for being able to discuss this proposal at this time. I would like to start with a more general introduction and then come to the answers to the various questions. But I thought it would be a good idea, in the introduction, to take a more detailed look at the question that arises in many of the contributions, namely: what do we actually do this for? Mr. Chairman. The legal reflection period fits in with our national model, you might say. They are national views on good governance. It focuses on long-term value creation and takes into account different interests, not only of shareholders, but also of investors, employees and creditors. There is often talk of 'the Rhineland model'. Mr Frentrop rightly points out that this model is not limited to company law. Nevertheless, in several places in Book 2 of the Civil Code it sounds, inter alia, in the task for directors to focus on the importance of the company and the companies associated with the company. Other examples include employee participation rights and the possibility for various parties to initiate a survey procedure in the Business Chamber. In this context, I would also refer to the detailed written discussion he had with the Minister of EZK. Then it's time to think about it. This may be invoked in the event of an imminent hostile takeover or a resignation request from the shareholders. The aim is to give the board of the stock exchange company, which is currently under pressure by, for example, providing an activist shareholder, some rest and space; peace and space needed to explore options, consult with stakeholders and thus arrive at a carefully considered policy. Now I agree with Mrs Adriaansen that not all shareholders are necessarily focused on that short term. In fact, there are a lot of institutional investors who have a vision that is focused on the future. On the other hand, there are also shareholders who focus more on the short term. For example, several hedge funds were mentioned by Mrs Adriaansens, but there are others in the past. Think, for example, of the case Stork that is also very influenced by it. It may not be good to go into the depths of specific cases, but you can see that in these cases there is a lot at stake. Now, a short-term vision in itself does not necessarily have to be harmful, but this bill is intended to help prevent excesses, whereby short-term interests become dominant and other interests become too much of a tribulation. This may be the case, for example, when a company is strictly re-arrested after a hostile takeover. Healthy businesses are then quickly sold with substantial profits, as we have seen in the past, and the less profitable parts remain behind and may eventually die. Creditors, minority shareholders and employees may suffer in this case. Thus, it could be a division of parts of a company that could put employment at risk, the taking over and dismantling of a company or a radical change of strategy. It is then always a matter of very far-reaching decisions and changes of course, which are discussed at such a time under high pressure of time. In my view, forcing at such a time is really unwise, because it is precisely in such cases that there must be peace and space to come to a good, sensible balance. This is not about keeping the board in place, as Mr Frentrop and Mr Otten suggested. No, it's about the importance of the company as a whole. That is what is at the heart of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u4	I would like to point out to the Minister that the number of unfriendly takeovers of Dutch stock exchange companies, or attempts to do so, is extremely limited in view of the legislative framework and the many protection structures already in place in the Netherlands. In fact, they often attract companies that want to give minority shareholders less rights. For example, Berlusconi has established its holding company in the Netherlands for that reason. So the idea that we give a lot of time to management that hasn't been performing for years doesn't really help. That's not gonna happen after 250 days of extra performance. In the business world, people know that sometimes things have to be put under pressure. In fact, under pressure everything becomes liquid, as the saying goes. This pressure is often also needed to bring about changes. This bill may be intended to do so, but in practice it will turn out the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u5	I do not know if I fully agree with what Mr Otten is saying. I can see some of that pressure, and you're gonna have to keep it. At the same time, this bill does not completely remove the pressure. The reflection period is not unlimited. If there is real dysfunction or bad governance, then even after a reflection period the shareholders' meeting will eventually be able to vote a board away. But despite the fact that the number of hostile takeovers is limited, even if we look at the past, we can see that their impact can be very large. At the same time, it concerns large Dutch companies, where many people work and where many interests are at stake. I think there's reason to see if you couldn't take a step. In my view, that is not a kind of revolution, because it fits in with the various measures taken in the past. With this we're actually taking a logical little extra step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u6	I don't know what the minister is specifically referring to when he says it has major consequences. I imagine he's referring to the division of ABN AMRO. A big problem, besides the fact that the company has not been managed very well for years, was that the division itself took a lot of time. Minister Wouter Bos made a lot of demands. It took almost a year for something to be done. That certainly made the situation worse at the time. This has also been investigated by the Temporary Committee on Financial System Research, the De Wit Committee. That has also been clearly demonstrated, regardless of the valuation errors that were made at the time. Let me compare it with politics. If Minister Wiebes is to blame for the premium affair, then we cannot give him 250 days to reflect on it. No, then that's just a fact and something has to happen. Then you don't have time to think about it, do you? Then it must also be under pressure to decide what the cabinet will do with it. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u7	I don't think those two are entirely comparable. The possibility of invoking reflection time can be applied in very specific situations, for example when there is a hostile bid or a shareholder who wants to manage the dismissal of the board or the Commissioners. However, if there is malpractice or fraud, there is still the possibility of eventually dismissing the management of the firm. That doesn't prevent this bill. I think that Mr Otten can be reassured, because where dysfunction or malpractice is at issue, this legislative proposal does not prevent action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u8	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u9	I think there's been a misunderstanding right now. I'm not talking about malpractice. Disappointment is something else entirely. That is a liability for drivers if they really make demonstrable mistakes. The point is that the performance is not optimal. Shareholders do not come for fun demanding the dismissal of drivers. They do this because they think that capital and the combination of capital and labour can be used better than existing management does. The management in the Netherlands is already quite shielded from those influences. As a result, you also have so-called discounts in the Netherlands. That really makes you worse with the introduction of this bill, because this is actually a reward for bad behavior. And then I don't mean legal bad behavior, but it doesn't perform optimally; let me put it to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u10	This is indeed not the case with real malpractice, where obvious mistakes are made for which we can also be held seriously liable. Then it is often much more about the discussion about the strategy. Would a company be worth more if you split it up, if you sell parts or if you reject certain industries? The vision behind this bill is that at the same time these are important decisions, not only for the company, the firm, but also for the people who work there, for other stakeholders and for suppliers. I am not saying at all that the board or the supervisory board is always right and I agree with the pressure of shareholders, but we have also seen in the past that a very activist shareholder sometimes tries to set up an abrupt change of course and then, if he doesn't get his way, puts the head of the board on the chopping block. 'Cause you can actually do that. The unwritten law in the Netherlands that we are going to codify with this bill is that the strategy is ultimately not up to the shareholders, but to the management of the company. The shareholders can get rid of the board, and that is often used as a means of coercion to enforce such a change of strategy. When that happens, the question is whether you really need to do that in the pressure cooker that is currently possible, so without time to think about it. Or do you buy some time and press the pause button to give the board the room to talk to the various shareholders, big and small, and to see what a sensible change is? The board then has to answer to the shareholders once the period of reflection has expired.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u11	Clear. There is still a short question and I suggest that we give the Minister an opportunity to make a few meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u12	Finally, Mr President. The point is precisely the long-term suboptimal performances. I am not talking about malpractice; that is a legally different concept in this context. I'm talking purely about a suboptimal performance. It provokes this kind of behavior. As I indicated in the first term: if you buy a house and the seller has 250 days to think about it, then no one is going to bid on that house. In practice, this will mean that the sub-optimal performance management of stock exchange companies can continue to work much longer. That's what's gonna happen here. That's why I called for you to stop doing this, because you're putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u13	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u14	I don't think that's too bad. If you look at the Corporate Governance Code now, you can see that there is already a response time of 180 days. This bill extends that something, both in the scope and in the length of the reflection period. But I think, again, it's not all that revolutionary. At the same time, if I look at the input during our consultation, there has been a very positive response from the various interests, both from the business side and from the employee side, and from the KNB and the NOVA with regard to company rights, to the step we are taking here. Mr. Chairman. As I said, I do not see the period of reflection as a revolutionary step, but much more as the extension of what is already common in practice. The contribution from the Court has already mentioned several protection measures that stock exchange companies can set up. Take, for example, the response time in the Corporate Governance Code, which is now 180 days. Following a request from the shareholders for a change of strategy, the reflection period was made 250 days and the scope was extended to public bids. Moreover, the reflection period with this legal framework also offers greater legal certainty. I heard the contributions from the Chamber very well. I would like to address a number of safeguards contained in this proposal. For me, it is important that we find a good balance in this proposal between the different interests: in this case, those of the management of companies and those of shareholders. How did we ensure in a good way that the call for this period of reflection is not a light decision? I'll mention a few. Firstly, the Supervisory Board must agree to the call for the reflection period. There an additional test will take place on the decision taken by the board. The second is that it is not protection against dismissal, as Mr Frentrop said. Invoking the period of reflection does not give the board a carte blanche to sit still and wait a while; quite the contrary. The reflection period should be used well to engage with different stakeholders and to map options. This concerns, for example, the works council, if any, but also the dialogue with the various large and small shareholders. Their voice will be heard and taken by the board during that period of reflection. During the reflection period, shareholders may also go to the Business Chamber if they disagree with the call for the reflection period, if they do not want to allow the reflection period to continue or if similar protection measures are already in force. At the end of the reflection period, the Board shall be accountable. The Board should provide a report to be discussed at the next ava. Mr. Chairman. So much for a general intro. I would now like to turn to a number of specific questions which are primarily concerned with the purpose, usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal, one might say. Two. The workings of the reflection period. Three. The possible impact of this bill on the location and investment environment. Four, finally. The relationship with European law. I start with cause, purpose, usefulness and necessity. Mrs Adriaansens, Mr Otten, actually all three, asked about usefulness and necessity. Why are we doing this? Why are the existing resources not sufficient in law and practice? I just mentioned a few. I'll add a few more. The reflection period comes in addition to what is already possible under the law if you want to avoid short-term investors and hostile bids as stock exchange companies. Several speakers spoke, for example, about the response time, but also about Articles 2:8 and 2:13, different provisions in Book 2 of the Civil Code, and of course about the own protection structures and possibilities of companies. I see added value in the reflection period in relation to these instruments, because the legal reflection period provides a legal framework with clear deadlines, clear conditions and clear guarantees. In particular, I would like to mention the reason why you can invoke the reflection period, the procedure to be followed, the duration of up to 250 days and the special course of justice to the Enterprise Chamber. One could say that this offers legal certainty, not only to the company, but also to shareholders and other stakeholders. A number of stock exchange companies, although not all, certainly not all, already have their own protection measures. Mrs Adriaansen was right to point that out. For example, certifications, preferential shares, priority shares and enhanced majorities are envisaged. However, if you as a company do not yet have protection, it can be difficult in practice to put it in place when the pressure is on the boiler. Shareholders usually have to approve, for example, to amend the statutes. Once protection has been established, shareholder pressure can be put in place to reduce it. For the Dutch stock exchange companies without protection measures, the reflection period offers a good basic protection, a good foundation. But stock exchange companies which have already taken measures can also benefit from the reflection period. A reflection period offers good protection, you might say, at less cost than other protection measures. As an example, I would like to mention the issue of certain shares that give extra control, a structure that we know of course. For example, a foundation must be set up and maintained, and special shares must be issued. In this respect, this bill also provides a simple form of protection structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u15	Thank you for the Minister's answer to this particular question. What puzzles, then, is the question why these protection structures were not designed. This, of course, also says something about the quality of management or perhaps the nature of that company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u16	Sure. And often it also has to do with the question of how an IPO took place and how it went in the past. But we also see in practice that it is often difficult, if there are no protection structures, to introduce them afterwards. I understand that, because shareholders may also wonder why that is in their best interest. We, as legislators, have a broader balance to make, also from the viewpoints of the Rhineland model, in which we not only look at shareholders value and shareholders' interests, but also weigh the other interests. That is why I am in favour of introducing this extra reflection period, this extra step, which builds up some rest when the company's survival is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u17	In my view, that is also at the heart of the debate we are having: who is actually going to go about it? Is that the company with all the parties and all the guarantees in all the case law codes and the whole repertoire that we have designed together over all these years, or should we add a certain level of protection to that? I think that's the point. In doing so, we are crossing through what has been achieved all these years before in the way it is regulated, whether or not with protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u18	That's right. Companies themselves have a lot of space to come up with protection structures. Many have done the same. We see that sometimes they are also under discussion and pressure, that the shareholders are trying to reduce and reduce protection structures for them, but we also see that it is difficult to introduce protection structures to existing companies. I understand that, too, because you often need a change of statutes, and thus the support of the majority of shareholders. That is all the more true where a company is under enormous pressure. If there is an immediate takeover, then such a protection structure will often fail completely to be set up. Looking back at a number of cases in the past, we have considered that it would be good to build some peace in the process, so that interests can be properly weighed. This does not mean that the board has a licence, because somewhere this period of reflection will come to an end, but it does allow the board to talk to the various shareholders, not only to the often small shareholder who has an activist point, but also to a number of large shareholders who, like Mr Otten's point, may not be entirely happy with the strategy. The outcome may also be that you will join the change. But it does build something of peace in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u19	Mrs. Adriaansens, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u20	Maybe add a little more of the same. In principle, the Board and the Supervisory Board are the parties responsible for the strategy. They could have already made plans about, for example, attracting a large pension fund, which gives more stability, or another large shareholder, with which you build a strategy. That way you keep this kind of activist shareholders out of the door a little bit more. In my view, therefore, it remains more a difference of vision about whose hand you should hold than we agree on whether the bill is that solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u21	I guess one doesn't necessarily have to rule out the other. Part of the strategy is also which investors you attract, no matter how you maintain contacts and relationships with investors outside the formal moments of an ava, and how you involve them in the strategy, despite the fact that this is ultimately a responsibility of the board. You're still trying to see if it finds any resonance. And if that is sung too much, at some point you have a problem as a board of directors. Then you will be sitting with shareholders, owners, who are not satisfied with the course that is being sailed. Honesty requires, of course, that we should say that in the past, Akzo also saw that a very small shareholder with an attractive bid and in a rather aggressive way tried to make a very rigorous change of course. I do not say in advance that this is necessarily a bad change, but you can say: do you have to go ice in one night or do you want something of peace and space at such a time, so that the board can have the conversations? I think that this is a sensible line at such a time: to press the pause button to weigh those interests more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u22	I hear the word "rest" all the time. I almost get the feeling that we're in some kind of retirement home. The best protection for these types of companies is good performance. This is recognised throughout the financial world. Good performance is the best protection against problems with shareholders. I asked the Minister if he could give an example in which this reflection period would have helped. Well, then I hear Akzo. That is just an example, I think, of a company where there has been a lot of peace in the summit for years. At some point some clumsy takeovers were made. The biochemical branch has been sold. An already bankrupt ICI paint factory was bought back for this by Mr Wijers, with a pension shortage. So there are all kinds of serious reservations about that. I do not see how a reflection period would have solved this problem in that case. So can the Minister explain what kind of situations this period of reflection can help? I heard Akzo. Are there others? How would this period of reflection have prevented that problem? 'Cause I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u23	Well, I don't know if it's wise to go very deeply into the case and into Akzo's business management and strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u24	You brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u25	But we saw in that case that a small activist shareholder actually asked the head on the dish. Eventually, the judge had to use it. I think that this period of reflection had brought a little more peace to that process, in order to achieve a proper balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u26	But what the Minister doesn't answer is: what will we learn from that peace? At Akzo, I think a lot of people in the Netherlands also thought that management was suboptimal. We can also call another company, but we don't have to do all that now, although this bill has a lot to do with that. But if management performs sub-optimally, because there is a certain selection in Dutch business... One often chooses from a very one-sided pool of talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u27	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u28	How would that peace of mind have helped to solve that problem, because that peace of mind is not going to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u29	I don't know if we're gonna find each other completely. But then we saw a frontal attack. That was about whether or not to dismiss the board, in order to force a very radical change of direction or strategy with that resignation. Eventually, that became a lawsuit. I believe that Akzo was at that time the longest, but that caused a lot of uncertainty and unrest in the company at that time. I do not know whether that has been in the interests of the company and the people who work there. I think at such a time... "Rest" doesn't mean you keep it the way it is. You just build in a moment: when it comes to very radical structural changes or strategy changes, you can make your mind up after talking to different stakeholders, such as shareholders, employee lectures, investors, suppliers and others. Then you answer to the ava. It's just gonna take some time. I think that a certain amount of time is in the code 180 days; we extend it to 250 days, but that is not a doubling or something like 250 days is a reasonable period within which you must have weighed all those interests as a driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u30	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u31	I note that this tranquillity becomes the tranquillity of the cemetery for corporate Netherlands, if we continue with this. So I'd like to advise you once again to withdraw this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u32	I'd like to address the Minister at that moment of peace he wants to bring in. A moment of 250 days; I don't really think that's a moment. 250 days is not a "moment" of rest. But the Minister also ignores the fact that it is not just peace. What he's doing is like this. There will be an item on the agenda, which he says should give the board some time to consult with all kinds of parties involved in the company. But what he forgets to say is: such a point does not just come on the agenda, because there are a lot of obstacles in the Netherlands if you want to get an item on the agenda as a shareholder. Maybe I could mention a few. It's gonna take me a little longer than a normal question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u33	Well, if you could ask a short question? That's the idea, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u34	You need at least 3% of the shares. You have to do it 60 days before the calendar date. Then you can do it, but the board determines the agenda in the Netherlands according to the law. So you're already totally dependent on whether or not they want to record it. The judge may be called upon to do so. At that time, the board can decide whether it should be considered as a vote point or as a discussion point. If it is then on the agenda, the question remains as to what the majority of shareholders are doing: very neat, calm parties; institutional investors are doing so. If there is one small activist who wants something by 3%, the majority of shareholders of course say: we vote against. But here's what you're gonna do. Before that whole point, that consultation, was discussed, the board had at least 60 days to consult with all parties. Then it comes to the general meeting...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u35	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u36	Then all shareholders can discuss it. And then you say: yes, but now I want to build in a moment of rest; a moment of 250 days. I don't think that's consistent. I wonder why 250 days? Why not, say, 30? Or 400? Or 100? Where did this come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u37	That is a specific question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u38	Those 250 days start running from the moment the agenda closes, you might say. So if you make that 30 days, it doesn't matter that much, because then it takes another 30 days before the ava takes place. We have looked at what is a proportionate, reasonable period of time. That time limit allows for one or two avas to come, but also no longer than that. At some point the board should also come back with a story to the shareholders about how they want to deal with it. Mr Frentrop is quite right; all kinds of demands have been made. If you have a very small share, you can't just set up an item on the agenda and even if you act on an item on the agenda, that doesn't mean you get a majority behind you. At the same time, a company is not obliged to invoke a period of reflection if it is very sure of its business. Suppose someone with 3% or 4% of the shares comes up with a crazy idea, so to speak, of which the board says: come on, it is tuned into a large majority. Then the company does not have to call in the reflection period at all. We sometimes see that there is uncertainty about it. We see certain venture capitalists who promise golden mountains and who tell us that they are willing to give so much for the shares in relation to the stock exchange. Or it leads, if split, to a higher shareholder value. As a result, this could be an attractive idea for a larger part of the shareholders, which might lead the company at such a moment of uncertainty, which then says: this means quite a bit for our course and we want to take a closer look at it first. There is a bit of a laugh about: rest, rest, rest. But we are talking about very radical changes in very large companies in the Netherlands. Then I don't think it's so crazy that you're thinking about what we're doing wisely. If we copy it to politics here in The Hague, we will come to the conclusion, when it comes to the functioning of our large organisations, that we should go less about one night of ice and think a little longer about the consequences of the steps we are taking. If that is the case for us, why wouldn't that also apply to large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u39	Before we continue with the interruptions, there are many and they are long. You had four cubes. How many blocks are you at now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u40	I'm at the beginning of block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u41	Okay. Mr. Frentrop, one last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u42	I understand the Minister's consideration, which says: you have to make a careful decision. I understand. Now comes this idea of those 250 days extra. Nowhere in the world does one need those 250 days to decide carefully. Only in the Netherlands would we need 250 days for that. I don't understand why you're saying that's proportional. Moreover, there is also the 60 day period that is needed before you have to set something up. That's two months to consult with all possible parties. Finally, I would like to ask whether it is not much easier to say: let the shareholders' meeting take a decision and then look at how you proceed with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u43	The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u44	In 90% of the cases, the shareholders' meeting will say, no, we won't. Then all this thought-out time is completely unnecessary. They'll be waiting 250 days for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u45	The legislative proposal also provides, of course, that the reflection period should not exceed what is strictly necessary. If the board comes to the conclusion that it is no longer necessary, the title on which you may invoke the reflection period would lapse. If there is a discussion, interested parties can go to court to ask for an opinion. The point is, of course, that these major issues are often about strategy changes, which are reserved for the administration. For example, if the board does not agree with the demands or proposals that are put on the table, then the small shareholder has only one way to increase the ultimate pressure, namely the removal of the board or the Commissioners. That's not something you let the shareholders decide before you see what you're gonna do with it. Then the board is gone, then new directors have to come. In that respect, such a thing can be very acute at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u46	Mr Frentrop for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u47	Let's correct the minister. Imagine if the shareholders decided that a board had to go away. Before that decision takes effect, there are still steps to be taken. In the Netherlands we have the Enterprise Chamber. The company could go there and say: the shareholders have made a very stupid decision; let's think about it. Those 250 days you haven't needed at all, but the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u48	I think that's a little too simple a presentation. There's a huge panic in the tent. There is then a huge racket about all kinds of things, and then it is especially not about what it should be about, namely that the board is carefully considering and carefully considering the different interests in order to come up with a proposal towards the ava. Then it becomes a kind of tag, where emotions can rise high, with positions and reputations involved. I don't know if we'll really make sense of that. I think that at this point in time, in order to be able to carefully weigh interests, is in the interests of the company and of the various interests involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u49	When I hear the minister talking, it's like the barbarians are at the gate. I'm referring to a well-known book on unfriendly takeovers that I can recommend to you. The Minister sees it as a political-administrative problem. I have been involved in billions of transactions myself, and that is sometimes a matter of weeks. There's a lot of pressure. Companies are used to working at a different pace. This is mainly about the deadline. I agree with Mr Frentrop's questions. There are all kinds of deadlines, there are all kinds of procedures. You can always go to the Entrepreneurship Room. There are already a lot of protective measures. This is just overkill. It is a question of preventive action. This period is so long that no one is getting involved in it, so failure is rewarded. Let me compare it to politics for the minister. Suppose there is the following rule in the House of Representatives: if you submit a motion of censure against a minister or against the cabinet, the cabinet will have a period of reflection of 250 days. That is because we want to discuss and consider this in peace. How scared would a cabinet still be of a vote of no confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u50	The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u51	Then that effect is nullified by that deadline. That's exactly what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u52	Maybe I shouldn't have made the comparison between public and private organizations myself, because then you provoke this kind of thing. I do not know whether Mr Otten's comparison is entirely correct. It's about ministerial responsibility and that's really different from a discussion about a company's strategy: do you hold a company together or do you reject large parts or cut it up? Those are often the things that are on the table at such a time. They are a little more complicated than: do you have faith in a minister or do you say that at some point? It's really about long-term perspective for big Dutch companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u53	Finally, Mr. Otten. Just a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u54	I'd still like to hammer on this. There have been a number of attempts in the Netherlands in the past that have simply failed. I remember Nedlloyd. ABN is split up and that's a whole different story. In the end, these companies got screwed up, with all the rest that came with them. They were finally sold for a piece of shit. That is simply not a good solution in the long term. There has to be discipline and such a long period of reflection is actually a preventive effect that the shareholders call into question. That's overkill. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u55	I didn't hear a question, but I'd like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u56	I think Mr Otten and I disagree. That can just happen. I don't think it's overkill. That pressure will not be removed, because a period of reflection will also come to an end. It only gives time for a careful balance of interests. I compare it with the current response time for all parties involved of 180 days, which is not a hard law, but rather soft law. It's not very controversial in practice. Its 70-day extension is not such a huge step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u57	Minister, I'm gonna take a look at the schedule. The first block lasted 45 minutes. You have three more to go. We have about 20 minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u58	How long do we have before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u59	We have about 20 minutes before we start the second term of the Chamber, unless we suspend the debate until 10 p.m. tonight. Then we can go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u60	No, I'm gonna do my best to speed that up. I also think that we have had most of the interruptions, which may allow me to skip some parts, because we have just discussed them. I would like to say something about the functioning of the reflection period in relation to what Mrs Adriaansens said about the regulatory law. It might be good to clarify the nature of the reflection period. The period of reflection as such is compelling. The provisions of Book 2 are mandatory, unless the law indicates that there may be a statutory derogation from them. See Article 2:25 BW. The period of reflection cannot be ruled out as such. Of course, it's not legally required to call him in. That's up to the board eventually. But you can't rule it out by law. Mr Frentrop and Mrs Adriaansen further asked whether this is not actually some kind of disguised protection against dismissal. I think we have already discussed this in that little debate. You can see that the leverage of activist shareholders to influence the company's strategy is to steer away the board or the SVC. By the way, with this legislative proposal, we codify that the company's strategy is reserved for the management. Under the pressure of this threatening dismissal, the board may feel forced to change the strategy. That is where this reflection period for a careful balance of interests can be a solution. Mr Frentrop spoke of malpractice or fraud. I think I have just answered that. I have not yet discussed how we will be able to evaluate the effect of the scheme in a good way. I have indicated that, in the context of the calculation of charges, I take account of a maximum of five times a year. But I do agree with him that this is probably a little high-rated. It's probably a little bit lower, too. We will eventually involve the number of times the reflection period is invoked in this mid-term review. Then of course it's always quite difficult how you measure those precise effects, but I can imagine that you do case research where the reflection period has been invoked, so that you do interviews and have conversations with different stakeholders and stakeholders, but also, in general, look at the situation with regard to the investment and location climate in the Netherlands. Are the opinions of large institutional investors on the Dutch investment climate three or five years after the entry into force of this bill? I'm not so pessimistic about that myself. In fact, I'm optimistic about that. But it is also a way of taking into account the preventive effect to which Mr Frentrop referred. He also asked: if the reflection period is working on a public bid, should it always be a threat of dismantling a company or a threatening division? According to the legislative proposal, it is decisive whether there is a substantial conflict with the interests of the company. So you can't call in the reflection period with every hostile bid. There must always be cases where the continuity, independence, identity or development of the company is at stake. This is the case in the event of imminent dismantling or threat of separation of the holding. In the end, it is up to the administration, the supervisory board, to assess whether there is a real struggle. And if there's any discussion about it, it's up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u61	Mr Frentrop, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u62	A very brief clarification. The period of reflection cannot be invoked in any hostile bid, you said, but it is when identity or independence is at stake. But with an offer, independence is by definition at stake. So did you really mean "independence" or was that a slip?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u63	What I mean by that is, of course, the whole idea of this bill is that in some takeovers the idea is: we divide the company into threes, so to speak, and we get rid of some of it, or we sell it again in the long run. That really affects the very essence of the company. You can also imagine that there are other forms of takeovers, where the intention is simply to leave the company intact. In such a case, I can imagine that the board or judge will conclude that there is less material impairment of the company's interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u64	Mr. Otten, let me ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u65	Brief question, Mr President. However, I would like to point out to the Minister that he was just talking about splitting up into parts, in which he hinted at ABN AMRO, but that division was subject to a declaration of no objection from the Ministry of Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank. Eventually it was Wouter Bos who gave that explanation after a lot of delays and after a lot of complicated stuff that made the problem even worse. So that is not a standard case for this discussion about the reflection period, because that was a situation in which the government also had to grant a licence, because it was a financial institution. So I would like to say that for a moment, because that is a specific case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u66	I miss the short question, but I shall return to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u67	I wasn't talking about ABN AMRO either. In my view, I was talking about the criteria under which the period of reflection can be invoked and when there is an infringement of the essential importance of the company. Mr Frentrop further asked whether the board could invoke the period of reflection in the event of a public bid and that bid was complied with. If the period of reflection is invoked on the basis of a public bid, the period of reflection shall end when that bid is complied with. A certain percentage of shares to be acquired by the shareholder has not been chosen. The underlying idea is that a shareholder should also be able to exercise his acquired rights after the bidding procedures. Otherwise it would be too much of an intervention in the movement of capital. If this is a majority shareholder, he would in principle also have the right to replace the management and the supervisory board. This is also the case in the end if the reflection period has not been invoked in the public bid. It is therefore not a good idea to call in the reflection period after a request for dismissal by the new majority shareholder, one might say. Mr Frentrop asked about the situation in the case of a discharge request from shareholders where there is a controlling majority shareholder. The question is how real the threat is from such a shareholder, what his motives are and what the board knows at the time. There are two possible variants. Suppose, in the case of a small shareholder, the dismissal is taken in order to achieve a radical change and the board in response calls for a reflection period, then the board is obliged to sit down with all shareholders. In this case, for example, the board could quickly find out that the request for dismissal does not stand a chance and that the current strategy can be continued. Then the board will soon be able to end the reflection period, because then there is no longer a real threat. The second case is that a large shareholder wants to change the strategy and agitates dismissal. Then it is something else, because, of course, the administration must take due account of the different interests, not only of that large shareholder, but also of other stakeholders. The latter will play even more strongly if there is the controlling major shareholder. It also has certain powers, which it must be able to exercise. Then the board will have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u68	It's a very clear question. There is a company with a big shareholder of 51%. Let's take Heineken, 'cause we'll have something for ourselves. That big-time shareholder wants to fire a driver. Then the board says: we call for reflection. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u69	Yes, that is possible, because it is also important at that time to discuss this with several parties. At the same time, the board will, of course, know that if that large shareholder remains a major shareholder and does not come to an agreement, there is a chance that it will still be above the market at the end of that period of reflection. Then too, the reflection time offers time to weigh the interests and not only to talk about sending the board away in the heat of the moment, but also to see what this calls for changes in the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u70	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u71	But then there is no small activist shareholder who suddenly wants something for the short term. So a shareholder who's been sitting at Heineken's for a long time, I'm just giving an example, just says: we want to fire this driver. But then, in your eyes, the driver can say: I'm going to think 250 days if this is in the interests of the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u72	Not just that, because it shouldn't just be about firing the driver. There must also be a substantial threat to the company's interests. Then it is about continuity, for example. So it's an en-en-story. Then I come to the location and investment environment. Among other things, Mrs Adriaansens asked about the consequences. I hear concerns about what this means actually come back in other contributions. Of course, a good locational climate is extremely important. I think everyone here agrees with that. At the same time, we all know that many different factors play a role. This is not just the way we organised our corporate law and nv law, but also another part of my portfolio, for example. I sometimes try to tell you about the importance of a good legal infrastructure, a reliable government, independent justice, knowing that you can always go to court if you have a dispute, for example about your investments, but also a well-educated workforce, a good infrastructure, et cetera, et cetera. In this context, the introduction of a period of reflection plays only a modest role. Moreover, I do not think that the reflection period has so much a negative impact on our locational environment. On the contrary, the reflection period of companies can contribute to the attractiveness of the Netherlands as a country of residence. It contributes to a more stable course of action for companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u73	The minister says it's good for the locational climate. Yes, this is good for the business environment of companies that want to distance their minority shareholders or shareholders. They're often not the companies you're looking for as a country. So how can the Minister say with dry eyes that this is good for the Netherlands' locational climate? I think he's really misjudging how these kinds of decisions are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u74	I was already under the impression that the scope for getting closer between Mr Otten and myself would be very limited. I understand he's not in favour of this bill, but let me give you an example. The current reflection period is 180 days, the response time. I do not know how long it has been, but I do not see that it has had a huge negative effect or a negative effect on our investment environment. That strengthens me in the idea that the expansion of that time and the fact that we are legally laying it down do not place a huge bomb under the investment climate. In fact, I believe that factors such as sustainability and a stable location environment for long-term investors can be attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u75	What the Minister says isn't quite right. Look at Unilever, who, for this kind of reason, has moved to the United Kingdom and immediately said: we are not going to apply this period of reflection, which is contrary to British rules. That certainly has a lot to do with the location climate. Your party thought the dividend tax would create the walhalla for establishment in the Netherlands. That was absolutely not the case...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u76	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u77	So what do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u78	I quoted the example that was agreed in the 180-day code. I do not have the impression that this has been an enormous deterioration, quite the contrary. I also did not hear Unilever say that it is now leaving the Netherlands because we are in the process of establishing a legal period of reflection. I've heard them say they won't use it. Of course, that's what the company is free to do. If a company does not find it attractive to its shareholders, it can say so. It's not a duty to use it. It's a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u79	Mr. Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u80	I imagine it does not fall within the legal protection portfolio of this minister. It is actually more of a matter for finance and economic affairs. Has the cabinet carried out research into the consequences for the establishment of large listed companies of this period of reflection in the Netherlands? Was that research done, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u81	We have spoken with a great many parties in the run-up to this bill, where it has also been tapped off by various parties. I can see that there are differences of opinion. Some interest groups for securities holders prefer not to have it, but I see that VNO-NCW and the umbrella organisation for securities issuers do indicate that they are happy with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u82	Then I suggest we give the Minister the chance to finish block four in one go and keep the interruptions to the end of that block, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u83	It was about whether we would not create barriers to the European capital market. I do not see this bill as a barrier, but rather as a good concern from the Dutch government to offer stock exchange companies sufficient opportunities to resist unwanted hostile takeovers or shareholder activism. I also mentioned the support we received, not only from companies, but also from employees' organisations such as FNV. The management of an enterprise must have time and quiet to weigh interests. It is precisely in this corona crisis that this is important. Think, for example, of companies that have suffered huge losses. In that case, the stock price may be temporarily under pressure, which may in turn provoke unwanted shareholder activism or hostile takeovers. It is important that the board has and can take the time to look at the different interests of stakeholders. Then it's about shareholders, but it's also about employees. In my view, this is fully in line with European developments. The European Commission also aims to promote long-term value creation. For example, the Commission announced a proposal for a directive on sustainable corporate governance by June 2021. It also expects a duty on the part of the board to consider the interests of all stakeholders and not just those of shareholders. Ms Adriaansens further asked about the relationship with European law, referring to the opinion of the Council of State. For us, the relationship with European law is extremely important. That was also the reason why we asked for information in the preliminary stage. This information at the Council of State shows that neither freedom of movement nor the Shareholders' Engagement Directive hinders the reflection period. That does not change anything, as Mrs Adriaansens rightly points out, I think that, according to the Council, the motive, justification, but also proportionality and safeguards for shareholders should be taken into account. The justification for the proposal lies in promoting careful decision-making. This was also endorsed by the Council of State. In doing so, the Council of State drew attention to the safeguards in the proposal and the relationship with response time. We have also taken these suggestions to heart. I would like to mention a few: the criterion of invoking the period of reflection, whether the request for dismissal or public bid leads to a substantial conflict with the company's interest as a basis, the approval of the Supervisory Board to invoke and terminate the period of reflection, and adequate legal protection through a special course of law in the Business Chamber, which can end the reflection period where it has been wrongly invoked. In short, the Council of State recommended that the period of reflection should continue in the field of legal protection. We also took that advice and followed it. All in all, I believe that the reflection period in its present form is balanced and also in accordance with European law. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u84	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answers he has given. As far as I'm concerned, all the questions I have left have been answered. So I really only need my second term to draw a conclusion. That conclusion is that there is a legislative proposal which has not really been shown to be necessary. Nor has the Minister been able to make it really clear in his reply that business needs this. I have shown in my first term that the leaders of business, of companies that this is about, do not really think it is necessary. The Minister did not contradict my prediction that it will happen zero times a year, as these situations have also occurred on average zero times a year over the past eight years. The Minister has not contradicted the fact that this will continue to be the case in the future. He has admitted that his estimate that it may happen five times a year is on the high side. I'd say half of it's too high. I think he's gonna get pretty close to my zero anyway. So there is a bill here that is not necessary, that will have no effect and that does not serve any purpose. You can guess how we're going to vote on it if that's still on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u86	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has not been able to convince our group in his answer to our questions as to why this 250-day reflection period is necessary or would even have a positive effect on the balance in Dutch company law between shareholders and other stakeholders of the company, such as the works council, the employees and, of course, the board. The Netherlands certainly does not belong to the most shareholder-friendly countries in Europe or in the world. The balance we have now is really disturbed by this 250-day overkill, which will in fact have a preventive effect on shareholders to tackle a management that is not performing. That is probably also exactly the intention and exactly what the old boys network of the Netherlands wants. That doesn't want difficult shareholders who will correct them if they don't perform: "we want to settle everything with each other in our own way in the Netherlands." But sometimes it is just very important that there is also an incentive from outside if the course goes in the wrong direction for a long time. It really isn't always about short-term hedge funds or anything like that. Sometimes there are really good reasons why a company doesn't perform well. This reflection period is therefore a kind of pre-emptive way of making critical shareholders think: it takes too long, we are not getting started. In reply to the various questions, I did not hear a good explanation of why 250 days had been chosen. Our group has also asked a question about conflict with the EU directive. The minister says it's not conflicting, done. That was a very short answer. Among other things, the Advocate General of the Supreme Court has said that that is very dubious, that it is the question whether that period of reflection is not contrary to Article 6 (3) of the Directive. I would like to comment on that. In the first period, I have also asked specific questions about this. We also come to the conclusion that no research has been carried out into the impact of this reflection period on the location climate in the Netherlands. One important point, which I have not yet heard in this discussion, is: how will we ever get rid of this period of reflection? Once it's entered, we'll never get rid of it. So that has long-term consequences. What does the Minister think about that? That's what I'd like to know. So our advice is: take more time to reflect on this period of reflection, because this is a very ill-thought-out plan. We are not going to table any motions, but we would almost consider tabling a motion to ask for 250 days' reflection on this reflection period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mrs Adriaansen, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering all the questions, because they have indeed been answered. We are actually talking here about a kind of overvaluation of peace and stability if that would be a prerequisite for long-term value creation. You might wonder if that's always the case. The Minister states that this bill is not so far-reaching, but the question is whether it is necessary. We have discussed a number of examples. I think we differ on a number of conclusions. For example, I would not like to mention the Akzo case as a good example for this bill, because that issue has actually been resolved. The board of directors did not grant Elliott that right of assignment and on the basis of reasonableness and fairness that was resolved perfectly. What is perhaps very nice is that after that there was a lot of movement and that the chemical branch was sold and everyone thought "Oh my god, Akzo is now a takeover prey," but that Akzo is now working very hard to take over all kinds of other companies. So the question is what is the result of what. Perhaps you should leave that to the game of the actors that have been designated for this purpose. I also recognise the risk mentioned by the Minister on hedge funds. I fully agree with that. Only our group believes that there are sufficient means of protection to resist this. The question is also whether we really have good examples of where things went wrong. That piece still sticks a little bit. Now, where's that real example of where we're talking about this? I'm looking very hard for that concretization. Maybe we're missing it, but with me, it's not very sharp on the retina. You mentioned at some point, in a sense, the importance of whatever this legislative proposal does, namely the codification of the point that the management is about the strategy. We haven't really talked about that at all, but that's an interesting one. We are not going to challenge that at all, because it is fine that it has been written down and that it can have a legal basis, but the question is whether it is necessary. The Supreme Court has already confirmed that. I believe that was at Boskalis/Fugro or one of those other statements, which confirmed that this administration is about the strategy. But perhaps there is still a need for some reflection from the Minister on that point. I just wanted to leave it at that for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u90	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? Yes, that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u91	Mr President, I thought: we are moving forward in one go, which will save us a lot of time. But that's gonna require me to sort things out a little bit. I've got a few things left. I believe that three specific questions have been asked. One question is about assigning the strategy to the board. That is indeed codification. But converting this from case law to formal legislation is more common. I think it's okay to make that clear, too. Two is Mrs Adriaansen's question as to whether it would have helped and in which cases exactly. Of course, you can argue about it, but in the whole Akzo case that led to a lot of uncertainty. What this bill is trying to do is provide more legal certainty, even over a period when you as a board can make up your mind. Moreover, I do not know whether that would have led to very different results at Akzo for the strategy they have finally chosen. Because, of course, they have done a number of major interventions at that company, at that company, but I do not know if the panic that was in the tent at the time, with huge court cases, was really conducive to decision-making. In other words, even then, time for a proper balance of interests, regardless of its outcome, could benefit the care of the balance of interests. Mr Otten then asked about the relationship with the Shareholders' Engagement Directive. In the run-up, we have also submitted this specific question to the Council of State. Not only did we do this in the opinion, but we did so when we asked for information on the European legal aspects of the proposal. The reflection period temporarily suspends the shareholder's right to bid in order to reduce the pressure on the company's management. The Council of State's conclusion, as well as ours, was that the reflection period contributes to careful decision-making and thus falls within the scope of the directive to regulate shareholders' rights. In other words, they are not unlimited; there must only be good justification if you want to infringe on them. In particular, the Section notes that the Shareholder Participation Directive does not lay down any rules on the period within which the management of the company has to respond to outstanding issues. Similarly, the current Directive does not clarify what subjects shareholders can exercise control over the company through the Ava. It is therefore up to the Member States to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u92	However, the Directive recommends that one specific deadline be used. How does the Minister see that? Now there will be a new deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u93	Then it's about a completely different term. If you compare the 180-day period with the 250-day period, then the Council of State also indicates that it is good that we are more concrete and clearer on how these two relate to each other. I think we did, because we modified the bill after it came back from the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the reflection period on this bill. Can't we take 250 days for that, too? Well, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the States-General has taken more than 250 days to come to the vote on this bill. This bill was sent to the States General in 2019. This means that in both bodies and after due consideration and you meet more often than many shareholders of a large company have exceeded you well over 250 days. But I would like to take that for granted in order to promote the care of decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u94	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-13.u95	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
