ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	We must continue the debate on the economic aid package. There are three directors present. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, then to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and then to the Minister for Finance. I would like to agree with Members that there is room for six questions or comments. The request is to do so briefly. That way, everyone will come to their senses. We're gonna start with the first term of the cabinet. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr De Jong warmly. I enjoyed your description of your own business history and your family's. I was touched by that, too. I just heard from a reliable source that Mrs Maatoug and I went to the same high school. There too I made my maiden speech earlier than you, but yours was very promising. Mr Van Baarle and I have spoken before, but that was in a committee debate. I believe that was about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. You were as passionate about that as you were today about the support operation. Congratulations to all, therefore. Speaking of maiden speeches, I am here for the first time in my role as minister of EZK. I would therefore like to begin by wishing Bas van 't Wout every success from this place. It is special for me to stand here, and to stand in a way, because of course we would all have wished him that he would have been in good health here. At the same time, I am now in the midst of three parliamentary committees in which I have had many good debates in the past. This applies both to the Committee on Economic Affairs and to the Committee on Finance and to the Committee on Social Affairs. So now that fate has brought me here, I look forward to the debates and all that we can achieve together in the coming period. So that starts today with the debate on the support package. This is certainly not the first debate on this subject. Each of the MPs actually went into the very complex background, but also the very variable images that are all true at the same time. On the one hand, there were also big headlines this morning about how the economy is doing. Fairs are higher than ever. Employment is developing in macroeconomic terms, in percentages, in hundreds of thousands, fortunately well. At the same time, quite a few of you rightly pointed out that this still means that people are hard hit for an individual or for certain groups. The macroeconomic figures on employment, the expected economic growth and the pitiful setbacks in this growth and the historically low number of bankruptcies continue to conceal enormous personal suffering. Despite the good functioning of the current support packages, many entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs' families and entrepreneurs' employees are still in uncertainty and need is high. This brings us to the complex balance that we have also tried to draw up in the letter. I must confess that I have not often sent a 44-page letter to the Chamber, but I have now done so with complete conviction. The reactions of my colleagues outside the microphone show that they have done so. It is not for nothing that I said that I have done this with complete conviction, because I think it is right that we should take the Chamber and all those who continue to indulge in the dilemmas we face and the risks we run, ranging from fraud to overstimulation to not so much fraud, but actually unintentional use of a regulation. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the dilemmas facing the people who are carrying it out on our behalf. Incredible hard work is being done at Tax Administration, UWV and RVO by people who are trying to help people out of all their power. There's literally working overtime there. It calls on private and family life. That is where the people who can shoot through in all their emotions will be heard. That is a consideration, also from a human point of view, to our own employees, but also because we must always realise that we live in the rule of law and that we have indeed learned our lessons in the implementation of complex arrangements, both on the human dimension to be applied and on the need to ensure that an arrangement is set up in such a way that it is feasible. All these considerations have led the cabinet to say: we are essentially continuing the package with a number of adjustments in the third quarter. We have deliberately indicated in time, both to the entrepreneurs and to the implementation organisations, that this is our basic attitude. The answer to the questions will be along the line that I will answer a number of further questions on the general considerations surrounding the package and then on the TVL scheme, the fixed-cost scheme. Next, I will address a number of questions about specific sectors, large business, event sector, and a number of questions that have been asked about, for example, the group structure or the position of stoppers. Colleagues Koolmees and Hoekstra will answer the many questions in their area afterwards. First of all, a number of questions on the general background of the package. Both Mr Eerdmans and the Volt side asked for a response to the analyses of the Central Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank, which indicate that too long a package can also have economic consequences, also negative ones. We have also taken this into account. On a large scale, this balance runs along the line that in a normal time, without pandemic, thousands of companies go bankrupt. This is often or almost always a personal tragedy, but at the same time it is part of the way in which our economy is organised. This also sometimes has to do with the fact that one entrepreneur responds better to developments than the other. The entrepreneur who plays better on it is growing. The other one doesn't work at some point. Because of this system, we have a society that is renewing and which in many ways is really better than 20, 30 years ago. So CPB and DNB logically point out that if you set up regulations on the basis of turnover, you also support those companies that, in normal times, would have had a turnover decrease and might not have survived, while keeping it alive for a period of time. Moreover, the good side is that at least the jobs are preserved. As far as we are concerned, this is the inevitable price of the aid package that we set up, because we had to set it up quickly and for huge numbers of companies. For the TVL alone, more than 250,000 requests were made that had to be responded quickly, because it was about survival. Then it makes sense to use the turnover data that already have to be provided in the context of the VAT return. Then there is the downside of the story, but any alternative would lead to a great slowness in the assessment, which would in fact mean that the large group of companies, which is indeed entitled to that support, would fall down unnecessarily. However, we continue to listen carefully to these advisers and to listen carefully to entrepreneurs and their representatives and, of course, to the broader palette of social partners. In that context, Mr Van Dijk asked whether I could already give an opinion on the fourth quarter package, also because that question came from the social partners. We believe that this would be too early, because, of course, we very much hope that the economy will now be operating so well that it is not necessary or hardly necessary and because many indicators point that way. At the same time, countries that seem to have mastered the infection sometimes have to deal with relapses, new variants and the local regeneration of viruses. So, of course, we will arrive in good time before 1 October with our assessment of the situation at that time, but we do not think it is necessary to commit ourselves to that at the moment and we do not think it is wise at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle. Are you general at the end of your first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have two more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	I think it would be a good idea to conclude that. Then Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Van Kent asked for signals about abuse. Mr Eerdmans also mentioned this. RVO alone has reported 1,100 cases. Of course, that is always cause for great concern. Unfortunately, where the government makes money available, you must always live with the knowledge that the number of real villains and saints in society is quite clear and that the large group consists of very benevolent people, but that those benevolent people also want the villains to be dealt with. We really do as much as we can. In that context, Mr Van Kent asked me to make a blacklist of companies that abuse. The rule of law is closely related to the concept of "blacklist." Any potential crime must ultimately be judged by the judge if it is necessary, but sometimes it will be dealt with by the execution service. Certainly a judge can ultimately consider whether the gentleman or the lady in question is a recidivist, but by putting people on a list in advance, you really do violence to the customization that a rule of law also needs. That is not to say that a judge should not consider whether someone is a repeat fraud. That's up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Van Baarle? Or are you okay with Mr. Van Kent going first? Yes, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	Right on this point, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we know the black lists very well from the victims of the premium affair. The government did make blacklists for that. Now we are dealing with large-scale frauds involving millions of people. My group is asking the Minister to draw up a list of companies that have cheated. The SP calls for these companies to be queued in the back when it comes, for example, to Invest-NL or other items made available from the government, or even to exclude them from public support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	This debate is not surprising. There is often reference to the lessons from the supplementing affair, but I think it is an important lesson: blacklists are not such a good idea. In addition, I do not think it is legal, whether it be business or private individuals, either under these arrangements, to keep permanent lists and to automatically link legal consequences to them. That's how I understand it. You will always have to weigh whether the offence or the crime is so serious, and also related to the application that is before you, that you have to make that link. In general, it will really require a legislative amendment to establish such a link. Again, I think it's up to the judge to consider such a past, but I don't think it's a good idea to apply it almost automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then let me make it more concrete. The example of Booking.com has often passed here today, and not for nothing: 28 million in the pockets of three drivers as a bonus. Does this minister exclude Booking.com from receiving state aid in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	I do not think that a company that has received a lot of taxpayers' money is a way of explaining huge bonuses. But I would ask Mr Van Kent to think about what he is saying now. Suppose we do not hope that the crisis will continue in full intensity and a new variant will emerge. What if we again have the choice of tens of thousands of redundancies or another package of aid? Again, I hope we will not be faced with these questions. However, the question does not need to be asked again if I were to follow Mr Van Kent. Then the answer is always no. That could cost tens of thousands of jobs. I don't think we want any of that. That's why I don't believe in automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Minister asks me to think through this. So, if we think about it, it would be possible, if it were up to this minister, that Booking.com, which has now received millions of state aid and has paid 28 million in bonuses, would in future be able to get money again from this government and thus be supported again by taxpayers' money, even though they have proven that they cannot deal with it. I think we should think about that. As far as the SP is concerned, this Chamber should adopt a proposal to at least close those roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	I'm sure I should think about that, but my question was whether you want to say in advance to potentially tens of thousands of employees... now it's for Booking.com. I understand that very well, but I can't say what else we'll see. Do you want to say in advance, no matter what happens, to those workers who were not themselves involved that, unfortunately, because some people in, or involved in, the company have made decisions, we cannot save their jobs, but we cannot save someone else's? In advance? I think that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	Then I will go to Mr Van Baarle van DENK and then to Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would like to say a little bit more about the words the Minister has chosen, namely the words 'not or hardly' in the context of aid after the October period. He said he hoped that would be the case, that there would be little or no need for support. That's what the Minister said. I should like to ask in all sincerity whether this means that the government is actually pre-sorting to a scenario where there will be no aid after October or hardly any support. The epidemiological situation is still very uncertain. We know that entrepreneurs may still be working for years to pay off tax debts and all those arrears from suppliers and entrepreneurs. So I would like to ask the Minister to clarify the words 'not or hardly' in that context, because entrepreneurs still really need this help after October.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	In my opinion, my wording was: I sincerely hope that in the fourth quarter we will live again in a world where there is little or no need for support. This means that we have the pandemic so under control that we can get back to life as we always have. That's a lot I think almost everyone shares with me. Mr Bishop even talked about the economy of hope. I did the addition 'or hardly' because I can imagine that there might be an after-life effect in a particular sector or a remaining measure that we are going to look seriously at, but it seemed to me to be a little offensive remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	Things aren't so offensive to me. If the Minister indicates that he already hopes that there will be no or very little support, then I would like to call on him not to go ahead with the decision-making process that we are going to have in the fourth quarter. Despite the fact that the epidemiological situation is developing very well, I do not have the impression that we will then be able to get rid of these entrepreneurs with little support. I hope the Minister can endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	That depends on the situation. That is exactly why I said at Mr Van Dijk's question that we must, of course, come forward in time with our assessment for the fourth quarter, but there is such a difference between the worst case scenario with a new revival and a new variant and the best case scenario that I still hope for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Eerdmans of JA21 and then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	Minister Blok said that the number of villains on the one hand and the number of heroes on the other hand is fairly clear. I think that's true. My question is about the road maps. Shouldn't you be helping the entrepreneurs who have the right thing to do but perhaps choke themselves up in the maze of the TVL and other schemes, going down the canyon to prevent you putting people up with things called "the surcharge fraud" and getting into a circuit that people themselves can't unintentionally get out of? That's my point, besides the point of the villains we still have to deal with hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	Sure. A number of questions have now been asked, such as the question of customisation and the coincidence of arrangements. I would like to come back to that in a moment, and if there are any further questions, I would be glad to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	There was another question from Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	It went a little too fast with Booking.com and why that wouldn't be possible. I have the idea that here is the starting point that it is not possible, but I think it is better to see if it is possible. I have a bit of the impression that you are correcting me, but if I am wrong, you are not really sure whether or not you can do it, so I do not want to say that you are just saying something. But of course you can find out if you can. Frankly, I also think it is a bit moral blackmail to say: do we want to have the tens of thousands of redundancies on our consciences? We don't even know if tens of thousands of people are getting fired. So I'd like to have a more specific explanation about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr Van Kent's question was to categorically exclude a company such as Booking.com from such a support programme. That's what I've been reacting to: think about what that can mean. It's not weird that when I get a question like that, I think about what that might mean. This could mean this. I can't deny that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u25	We don't know if it could mean that. It is said here: this can mean it, so we don't do it. I'd say find out if it's possible. Because no is also an answer. If you can't, you can't. Then we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u26	If you didn't have to support the jobs without consequences, we wouldn't have to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u27	But it's a legitimate question, isn't it? What the hell...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'm also giving a very legitimate answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mrs van der Plas has just a moment to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes. The only question is, do you want to find out? It seems strange to me to say: no, we're not going to find out. There's always a way to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u31	But then my question is, what exactly do you want to find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u32	I want to find out what you don't seem to want to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u33	That's a lot! Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u34	Whether it's a lot or a little, doesn't it matter? The only thing I see here is that you're very easily blurting it out with "can't do that," "that has a lot of consequences" and "tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs." Sorry, maybe I'm stupid, but I don't understand why you can't say: we're gonna let this rest for now, we're gonna figure it out and we're gonna tell you about it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u35	Then the question is, what is "it" in "find it out"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u36	I would like to give the floor to Mrs van der Plas to explain what she would have liked to have picked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u37	Eliminating Booking.com. Well, I guess I'll just say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u38	I can give you part of the answer on the spot. You can put another research firm in there, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'd rather not have an investigative agency, rather in my own house, because otherwise it's gonna cost millions again. So the question is actually... Otherwise, we'll just file a motion. Well, that's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u41	Then there was a question from Mr Grinwis. He asked for another motion, Mr Segers' motion, to include responsible management as a condition for state aid. Work is now being done to see if such a link can be established and how it should be. You will be informed in greater detail. That's work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u42	The question with this beautiful answer is, of course, when? This motion has been there for over a year. It was adopted at the end of May last year. So I assume that the cabinet has now laid a beautiful egg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'll have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u44	The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yes. Then there are the questions about the TVL scheme, the Meeting Fixed Charges. Massive use has been made of it. I have already indicated that some 250,000 applications have been made by more than 140,000 companies. 99% of applications for the first three quarters have now been paid. The need for this in recent times is also an important motivation for the cabinet to take a positive decision on this for the third quarter as well. However, we use the possibility to make some adjustments that we got a lot of questions about. Fortunately, these are also well applicable to the performers, in this case the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. First of all, it is an extension to accommodate larger companies. In today's debate, there were also a number of times when the scheme offered relatively more scope for SMEs than for larger companies. That is why we are raising the subsidy ceiling for larger companies to EUR 1.2 million for the current quarter, the second quarter. We are also doing this in the knowledge that this is a quarter in which opening up has only gradually been achieved in many sectors and therefore the need for aid can still be considerable. Then a lot of questions have been asked about customization. I will address a number of specific questions, but against the background of why the understandable desire for customisation is extremely difficult to implement in practice. The numbers I have just mentioned are the 250,000 applications, the more than 140,000 companies involved are quite a lot, also given the limited time frame, because companies are not gonna be able to do anything if in one or two years' time you've been digging through the numbers and the legal construction and then say: everything is entitled to support. No, now the need was high, now the fixed charges continued, now the salaries supported by the NOW continued. So there was a combination; there is still a combination of enorme numbers and time pressure. This combination makes it extremely difficult to provide customization, firstly because it concerns the same people, the same RVOs, or people from UWV or the Tax Administration. So they are the same people who are already experiencing a huge workload and you end up in a huge complexity, in legal terms, because, of course, you have to treat equal cases equally, but also possibly in very complex considerations about group structures. There is nothing against that, but often they ask for a lot of time and attention when assessing exactly what happened to sales. Because in a company that consists of one bv or one person's case it is much better to assess than in a company that consists of multiple bvs or combinations of companies, which is much more often the case. As a result, it is very difficult to assess whether a change in turnover is indeed a setback for external causes or a shift in business activities, for which there may be very legitimate reasons, but which has nothing to do with the pandemic. That as a broad sketch why customization, especially under time pressure, is extremely difficult to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u46	I'm just checking to see if you've answered the question at the TVL block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u47	No, no, definitely not, this was just the general sketch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u48	Is it okay to finish the block? Perhaps Mr Van Haga's question will be answered. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u49	Then Mr Amhaouch, in fact in the same context, asked about the regime for distressing cases in the Cabinet for Death, Fire and Disease, which has indeed been invoked in more than 300 cases so far. Mr Amhaouch's question, if I understood him correctly, was: can you include takeovers in this? Mr Aartsen also asked for this at another time. Take-overs, I'm afraid, fall into the category I just mentioned. They are very logical in the normal course of a business, but extremely difficult to assess. That can be done, but then you will indeed have to sit around the table, with annual accounts and usually also with lawyers and accountants, to see which part of the company has been taken over by whom, how then the turnover....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This requires the kind of implementation apparatus and legally very difficult to shape customization that, I fear, would become stuck in practice. Then we simply have to be honest, even with the experience that we have of course had with several complex regulations in many areas, that with the arrangements we now have and the adjustments we are now making, we are trying to accommodate companies as much as possible, but there is also a limit to the amount of customization you can deliver. Unfortunately, this also applies specifically to acquisitions. Then there was Mr Dassen's question to look at a sweep. Now you can take the concept of "sweeping action" in a number of ways. Mr Dassen will undoubtedly come forward if he means anything other than what I said. What is not feasible is looking back and saying: with the knowledge of today we should have done one or two different things in the quarter. In the execution, but also in the equality of law, you cannot do that. A large number of Members of Parliament have addressed the question: how can we give the companies, the people for whom it is very complicated, a hand-out? I'll come back to that later. There is not everything possible either. I am also honest about this, but looking back is encountering feasibility and equality problems. Mr Van Haga and Mr Bisschop then raised the question of the larger companies in the group, the chain companies. I have already indicated that the extension of the ceiling, the cap, in the TVL means that larger companies can be better helped in the second quarter. Even more specific arrangements for groups and affiliates will then come back to the subject of customization, as I just outlined. There are a number of questions to be assessed. What are the relationships between the groups? Are there resources in places in the group? Is there a participation of venture capital that can contribute? Is the real estate the rental is an important part of the fixed charges within or outside the group? The contribution of real estate entrepreneurs is also a logical question. If this is outside the group, you will also come to the question of whether you can still ask for a contribution. Of course, there are a lot of big real estate investors. In short, you will inevitably find yourself in the field of customization. The Court has previously received a letter about the possibility of a tailor-made scheme, including the social interest. Mr Van Aartsen went into it. I believe that this letter also refers to the regional aspect. Mr Bishop asked for that. But then you're at a time when you're gonna be able to deliver that customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u50	It was Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u51	Three times I thought, "Now I'm going to the interrupting microphone." I am very honored to be announced as Mr Bishop I cannot stand in the shadow of such an experienced Member of Parliament, but he is not taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u52	Sorry, Mr. Stoffer! In short, this is the background that there is no separate arrangement, no additional arrangement above what we are doing now, for groups or groups. affiliates. Then there is the question of Mr Van Aartsen and Mr Stoffer, to which others joined. I am now being rubbed with the names from all sides. It's Mr. Aartsen. I'm gonna do my best. The one-stop-shop idea was raised earlier in a motion. Also in the context of the roles I have played here before, I say that this is a classic question, which played before Corona. I can remember that one of my predecessors tried to make sure that entrepreneurs only had to supply their information to the government once. That was from the question why, if you have already registered with the Tax Office or the Chamber of Commerce, you should tell us again what your address is and what your name is. After all, that turned out to be very complicated. It also always comes up against the obligation to explicitly request permission to share information. It's been like that in normal times. That kind of practical question still plays. If you want to share information in one place, you need permission anyway. The second is that I can imagine a lot about entrepreneurs who are out of touch with complexity, especially when they are in trouble. At the same time, we realize that every entrepreneur in the Netherlands, even now, even if there are no problems, has to do with both the Tax Administration and the UWV and the municipality and the RVO when he uses an arrangement. I don't think I know an entrepreneur who says, "I like that; I have to do that at 9 p.m. in the evening. I just put the kids to bed and now I'm going to make the VAT return." The pension fund is often added. But that complexity is part of business life. I think we should be honest about that. You can like that or not, but it is. I want to see how we can make life easier, especially for entrepreneurs who are in such a complex situation. An important hand-out that we have already done is through the Chamber of Commerce, which has offered a counter with coaching for this. But I do ask you to understand the complexity of point one of linking data and point two of the expertise you need. You don't want one window that just passes through. Understanding VAT is really something quite different than having a sense of social security, pension or a municipal tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, then Mr Amhaouch of the CDA, then Mr Dassen van Volt, Mr Aartsen of the VVD and Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u54	Of course, we all understand the complexity, but I do not really understand the premise that it is very difficult to determine per example, for example, if it is in a group structure, what exactly happened there. If there is a loss there, it is and then you can just explain it. We have demanded a third explanation in other situations. Why don't we tell them we need an audit report? Then we have it and then it can be looked at by e.g..
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u55	It depends entirely on the structure of the group how complicated that is. I already explained that it makes a huge difference whether the underlying shareholder is a venture capitalist, who can also be exempted, how the relationships between the working companies are, or whether there is a deliberate division between turnover in one and the other is not a capitalist and whether the real estate is in it or not. You can tear all that apart. That is the work of accountants and lenders. It's not easy. Then it's really customization. You've got to go a long way in there. And you have to do it all against the background of the principle of equality of law. Because if you are going to provide a different type of support from the generic aid we are now granting, there is the immediate question: how do we deal with all those other companies which, if we do this now, could use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u56	That is exactly the principle that I think we should regard as high. If the damage is done by the government and by the measures, the government must compensate it as well as possible. If there is indeed real estate in one bv and there is another turnover in another bv, and if it is further billed, you just have two bv's. You can easily check that through an annual accounts. I see no problem with that, whether there are pensions in that group or venture capitalists. What exactly is the problem with looking at that? Suppose there's a separate shoe store, an e.g. that sells shoes, and the real estate is in the holding company. Then it'll just be overloaded. Whether you get rent or a tax, that doesn't matter to those individual e.g. If it were a small e.g. from someone who has one shoe store, he would get support, but because it is now in a group with 250 shoe stores suddenly no longer. I really don't understand any of that. It's certainly not hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u57	I have indicated to you that 144 000 companies have benefited from this scheme. 144,000! Part of it will be a one-man business, or one e.g. Part of it. There aren't thousands of them. Can you analyze thousands of companies? In theory, they can, but then they have to wait a long time for their support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u58	That's just up to those companies and to the accountants of those companies. After all, we are dealing with separate, independent legal entities. They also deserve a separate, independent treatment. That seems obvious to me, but the Minister's unwillingness is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u59	I find it very easy to talk about unwillingness, while at the same time, in our letter and in the debate, we all realise how much the need is for many entrepreneurs, and also how extremely complex it is to launch such a large support operation. I hear that with a lot of MPs. To speak of unwillingness, I find totally unjustified. Anyway, I'll leave that on Mr Van Haga's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u60	Of course, there is absolutely no intention of hurting the Minister. However, there are arrangements for an independent e.g. I do not think they are enough, but a number of dozens of percent are reimbursed. The Minister has to agree with me that you have a big problem when you're in a group and have a number of branches. There's 200,000 on the road. It has been promised that there will be an arrangement for this. Now we're talking about customization. It must be socially relevant and there must be 30% turnover loss in the second quarter, while in the second quarter everyone was partly open again. There's a big problem there, isn't there? That has to be solved, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u61	Exactly how big the problem is, in that case you have to assess each company. Apparently, you're not gonna solve it with the generic regulations that we can happily apply quickly. Then you come into a trajectory where it is theoretically possible to dissect group structures and look at the level of working companies, with all the problems that I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u62	I would like to return to what the Minister said in connection with the motion on the harrowing cases of death, fire and illness. The motion was adopted by 149 votes. I think someone went out for ice cream. That's why it wasn't 150 votes. I don't see any more customization. If we see takeovers now, and often also legal and administrative changes, they are companies that have been in existence for decades. They shall first submit an application through the system. Then the system says: that's not right, because you have another number at the Chamber of Commerce. You're gonna object and you're gonna go into the objection procedure. That's what that application goes through. Compliments for the RVO. But at some point it is in the rejection, in the context of the poignant cases: there is no question of death, fire or disease, so we reject this application. So the pre-work is all done. Why not extend the framework of action for the RVO and say: if there is an acquisition proven by the RVO, or if the RVO is questioning, draw up an audit report. A company that has been in existence for decades is not going to end with: up to here and no further? I would ask for a bit of coulance, and for the people at the RVO, who are doing a good job, to be given a somewhat broader framework for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u63	I understand the question very well, because takeovers and the creation of new working companies within an existing company are normal parts of the life cycle of companies. That means that this is very common. It also means that in the files of the Chamber of Commerce, the RVO and the Tax Administration you have a huge group of new bvs, or other new legal entities. That's what you're supposed to be trying to figure out in which cases it was about takeovers. And that's what you have to try to figure out again in which cases it was a takeover where the effect on sales was caused by the pandemic. The creation of companies often has very different reasons, which also affect turnover and fixed charges. I am not arguing at all that Mr Amhaouch and others who have referred to it rightly say that this is very common. It's also very legitimate. At the same time, however, because changes and creations and acquisitions of legal persons so often occur, it is not possible to make a separate arrangement for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u64	Again, we are not asking for a separate arrangement. We do not ask the cabinet to do anything to get involved in something that a company cannot prove. Then we have to stand on the brake. But we shouldn't do that if a company can prove, through an audit report or through the numbers, that it's a real company. We've seen a family business where the daughter joins the company. That has existed for 30 years, has 40 staff and we say here: you have a different number from the Chamber of Commerce; you cannot participate. That is what we are calling attention to and not to the complex big issues. If we can't prove it, then we shouldn't. If you can prove it, the people of the RVO must have room for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u65	Exactly such a case, such a company follow-up that is very common, you will have to go and find out manually. Then I'll come back to the question of customization. If you make a promise about customization and harrowing cases, then you must be able to keep them and be enforceable. That's where I really want to be honest about what we can do. Take-overs are simply too complex in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you. Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u67	In fact, Mr Amhaouch has already asked my question reasonably. That's what I meant by the sweep. It was about companies falling between shore and ship. I had an example of someone from the municipality of Epe who had taken over a company after a divorce. He did get a KvK number after which he couldn't qualify for anything. Can't you see if there's some kind of coulance for those companies? I understand from the Minister that this is not possible and that there are no options to obtain the extension that Mr Amhaouch also proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u68	I indicated it's not feasible. You now add another part of the life cycle of people and companies, which is also very common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr Aartsen, VVD, and then Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u70	Let me start by saying that I do not mind Minister Blok confusing my name with Mr Van Aartsen's, but with Mr Koolmees, because I think Mr Blok has still worked with the MP Van Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u71	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u72	I call it a one-stop shop, but of course it is not a one-stop shop. It's kind of a team. It's a place where you can go as an entrepreneur. The minister says that entrepreneurs are used to working with the UWV or the Tax Administration. Of course it is, but this is just a bit more fundamental. I would hardly call it a radical idea, but it is, of course, a mega operation with an extremely complex implementation organisation. We have two reports, Van Dam and Bosman, which say something really fundamental about the implementation organisation, about The Hague, about us all. I don't need a solution here right now. I think we really need a little more time for that. I'll come up with a motion myself in a minute. I would really like to take a broader and more fundamental look, together with the cabinet, at how we can get this right with each other. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're gonna be walking into the same pitfalls as the Bosman Committee's sketching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u73	Sure, but I already gave you the following. On the one hand, many entrepreneurs already have to deal with it. They don't like it. I understand. But they're gonna be okay. The troubles you're referring to will certainly be there. I also indicated to you that the cabinet wants to take a very serious look at this. I also indicated to you, knowing what has already been tried, that this wish existed before the crisis, and it is difficult to share data, but also to connect information systems. In my opinion, the whole of the Netherlands has seen that it is often a lot more complicated than we realize. Here again, I really see the underlying problem, and it is unfortunately a bit my role today to indicate this, but I must also point out that we do want it, but also have to look at what it means in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u74	I understand the Minister's taking that role. It's also good that he does. The only difference is that we can take the time for this. That's what we just reported. The NOW 4 will not be dealt with until a year and a half. So we really do have time for that. To stay with the same NOW, maybe with another minister... In the technical briefing we were told that it is so complex that even the officials cannot get it on one A4, let alone the entrepreneurs can do it. So it is so fundamental that I say: let us really take the time for this. We'll be with each other soon enough. Let's take a fundamental look at this. We shouldn't look at the problems we had for corona, but we really need to make a separate plan for how we're going to act. I would just like to emphasise that, given the complexity, we really need to look at this more fundamentally than we are used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Stoffer of the SGP and then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u76	I thank the Minister for answering many of my questions. I'd like to come back specifically to the affiliates. I understand that this minister may not have been sitting at the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u77	I think the Minister will come back to this in a separate block on specific sectors. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u78	The point is about the branch companies. Mr Stoffer is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yeah? Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u81	Will the Minister come back to it specifically? No? Good. This is what I'm talking about. Several members of the cabinet, civil servants, but also people from the branch companies sat around each other for about six or seven weeks with the idea: we're gonna get out of it with each other. When I look at the pieces like that, page 16 of the 44, of the letter we received, says: "That would cost 350 million euros for a quarter." So we've been thinking about how you run it, or I don't think you can make that estimate. I have the next question. I'm reading all these recitals, but I don't understand what it's all about. Where does it go wrong? At least I don't understand. I also understand from the representation of the branch companies that they do not understand what this has gone wrong. They say: maybe add some more conditions; put the responsibility with us. I don't get it. It's about a lot of jobs and a lot of shops. That's about it. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u82	I wasn't involved in those conversations myself, because I've only been in this chair for a week. I have, of course, been fully briefed on the discussions that have taken place and on the dilemmas that you are faced with in the two regulations outlined in the letter. Mr Stoffer referred to the estimate of the amount involved. Against the background of the point I mentioned earlier, I say the following. As soon as you set up a tailor-made scheme, the rule of law, the equality of law, means that every time you ask the question: which other companies would also comply with the rules that we now apply to this company, under these conditions? That is part of our rule of law. This makes it difficult to define the scheme. The second part, which is also described in the letter, concerns a bit of the discussion I just had with Mr Van Haga. You can check the whole group structure, see how the bv's relate to each other and dive into the underlying shareholders and the real estate company, whether or not part of the group, to see what assets are present there. You can do all that, but the letter says for that reason that it takes a very long time. This is again very bad in relation to the nature of the regulation we are talking about, namely: dragging companies through an acute crisis. Then you're actually talking about tailor-made arrangements. You've already received a letter about this before. Indeed, you have the opportunity to make such an in-depth analysis with companies with social relevance that didn't make it. But you're also talking about specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u83	Then you're talking about equals. If you just look at the shopping street, you will see a clothing store that missed the Christmas turnover and then missed everything at the beginning of spring. He's having a hard time, but he'll be helped. Not that it makes the store fat or good. The store would have preferred to run, because that would have been better. But if you've got 50 of those clothes stores, you've got 50 of the same problem. You have to treat equal cases equally. It's also about the people who work in those stores. They could've just been working with one or the other. If you sell clothes in one store, you might be able to sell clothes in the other store. I understand the principle of equality in itself, but it is driven from one side. I'd love to see it the other way around. I think we can do that, too. My appeal would be: why don't you sit around the table and see if you can really make something out of that? I think you're gonna get lawsuits and so on. If you're not careful, it's gonna cost more than the whole scheme we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u84	I'm back in the reasoning about the shopping streets, because I recognize them. I was kind of hoping you'd mention the Westerstaat in Enkhuizen, but I'll do it myself. Indeed, a gaping void. You hope, I think, that as soon as we make an aid scheme specific to affiliates, it will end up with the affiliates that we save from falling over. A first question you get in the context of equality of law is from affiliates or other clothing companies that do not use it: why does the neighbor, so my competitor, get X? They won't say it that loud, but they'll think it, because when the neighbor's gone, they'll sell more clothes. That is also a question of legal equality. You come into very complicated dilemmas. Now I'm only doing it in the clothing industry, because I think it's very complicated to explain why you would only do an arrangement within the clothing industry. So there will be other companies coming forward, also in court cases: if that company has gotten something, why not me? In the arrangements that are now under way, this is overcome by their simplicity. There are also disadvantages; I do not deny that at all. But what I keep telling you is that these conversations mean that the complexity is enormous and that an arrangement that seems attractive and feasible is a huge issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u85	I get it. The conclusion on page 17 of that comprehensive letter is ultimately: it's a bit complicated, so we don't do everything overlooking. I'd understand if you chose between putting green or blue carpet in here. Then you finally think, well, we're moving out, so let's not do it for a second. But here we are talking about a lot of jobs, shops and shopping streets where the holes are falling, whether in Enkhuizen or in Ermelo or just mention every place; I also heard about Harderwijk. It's about people who lost their jobs. If you convert that 350 million euros into 180,000 jobs, they won't all disappear. It's less than $2,000 per job. Let's say 10% of those jobs are about to disappear and you have to give those people benefits. Then as a society, as a government, you've lost a lot more than this amount. So I'd say take it in the whole width. I think it would be much wiser to do that. Would the Minister like to reflect on that and look at it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr Bishop mentioned a number of very relevant aspects...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u88	Oh, Mr. Stoffer. This is gonna take a while, I'm afraid. It's not like there's no support for affiliates. Mr Koolmees's proposal for a NOW regulation is being used extensively in this area. It focuses specifically on those jobs. Where the letter ends with 'this arrangement is not chosen', it is not that the letter says: we can never talk to these companies again. I indicated to you that there is a tailor-made scheme, also shared with the Chamber, whose criteria and social impact have been clearly outlined. It could also be regional. So the picture isn't that there's nothing else at all, but these routes didn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you. Isn't that your fourth question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u90	Yes. I'm gonna stop this for a second, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna think about it. I also have a motion that has not yet been put to the vote, so we shall have another look at it later. The point of contact has just been discussed, also towards Mr Aartsen. I had asked questions about that, too. I have seen in the newspaper this week that Secretary of State Vijlbrief...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is that right now or am I completely wrong? Or should there be a little more communication between EZK and Finance? Of course, that could be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u91	That's right, because that's just what the letter says, but I think it's purely if Mr Hoekstra takes that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u92	I'll get back to you then, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u93	Fine. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think this Minister is very formalistic. I hold my heart for the follow-up, because it is precisely now that we need a minister who shows some flexibility and who recognizes the real needs of the big companies. It'll just be Seaman. Just now, the Minister says I'm not going to blacklist Booking.com, because I don't want to be responsible for thousands of layoffs. But that Sailor will close 30 branches in the shopping streets, with all the layoffs it will have to be possible because there is no generic solution? So you need to get rid of that formalistic thing. Let me give you a few examples. What if Pieter Elbers gives himself a bonus now? He also had millions from the TVL and the NOW. What does this minister say? Does he say, "Well, you can, because otherwise thousands of people might get fired"? And I call Ralph Hammers. Mr Hoekstra still says to him: 'You should not do that bonus, because that is socially irresponsible'. He had to give himself that bonus, but he didn't do it because we made a call here in the Chamber. We said, "Don't do it." There were even customers who said, "Don't do it, or I'll cancel my account." The minister could say to Booking.com: "Don't do it, and if you do, you can forget about any help in the future." Why doesn't the Minister say so? Is that so hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u95	This brings with it consequences, and I have outlined them in detail. If you're willing to bear those consequences, you could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u96	But you won't!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u97	I'd like to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u98	This minister doesn't do it because he's being formalistic. You're actually saying, "I'd do it again towards Booking.com. I'd give them back their support in no time. If there's another virus coming up in 2022 and they're asking NOW, I'll give it to them. Then they can give themselves a bonus again." That's what you're saying. You're being formalistic. Sailor lets you down, but Booking.com will keep you in the air because it's possible. And my question is, if Pieter Elbers gives himself a bonus now, what do you say? Then what is this Minister of Economic Affairs doing towards KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr Van Dijck actually has two mantras. The first is that I am formalistic. I'll leave that with him. And the other is to name a number of companies. You're here calling for Seaman to fall over. I'm really gonna leave that on your behalf, so I'm not gonna comment on that either. And I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u100	That's not my question. My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u101	You interrupt me and I think I should respond to your interruption. Then you mention a whole list of people who can or can't get a reward. You can make that list endlessly long. That's why I'm putting the general consideration behind it. You'll find it formalistic and you'll like to say it. The general consideration and the hard rule behind it is: if you pay out a bonus, you will never get any support at all. This rule should apply to all companies. Such a rule also brings with it a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u102	I think I'm talking to a concrete block here. This is a company that has received millions of grants from the taxpayer, just like ING used to, just like KLM now. They got millions of dollars from the taxpayer. And all we're asking, what the people's representatives are asking of that company is: take it easy with the bonuses and the dividends, because tax money isn't meant for bonuses and dividends. That's a very real request, isn't it? And the minister says, "Yes, but then people might get fired." That's not the point! It is a question of asking the taxpayer for a sacrifice. And you, as a minister, should just stand up for that taxpayer. You have to say, "Listen, it's not gonna happen to me that you're gonna give yourself a bonus of our money, because that's ten bridges too far." You must not hide behind the consequences and redundancies, and whether or not it is legally acceptable. No, you just have to stand up for the taxpayer. You are spreading tax dollars here and you allow people to give bonuses and pay dividends from Dutch taxpayers' money. That is ten bridges too far, and I would expect this minister to say: we will not accept that and we will lie down for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u103	It would be really good if Mr Van Dijck would read back what he just said. He said in so many words: those fired, that's not the point. I really don't think you can afford that. I really do. Furthermore, I'm throwing that whole bonus culture far away from me. We agree on that. But I'm not gonna say it's not about the layoffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks and then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u105	My question to the Minister of EZK is: if I list the answers to some of my colleagues' questions, I will conclude precisely that the stopping strategy means that we are going to continue generically with quarter three, that emergency aid will stop after that, if the situation remains the same, and that specific, more tailor-made arrangements, apart from the arrangements that we already have, are not possible because they cannot be implemented? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u106	No, that's way too short a turn. I said very emphatically: we cannot oversee quarter four. So I don't make any statements about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u107	Then I have another question. I was very pleased with the dilemmas outlined, because that also makes the conversation in this Chamber more specific. Perhaps we should do that with more letters, I say through you, Mr President. But we are going to have that dilemma again, perhaps on topics we are discussing now, but also on new groups that occur. My question is: is there anything we can do to make this implementation and orientation possible, even if the numbers are decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u108	Sure, and I really appreciate the question. There have been technical briefings before. I think there is an offer for another technical briefing on this arrangement. So my first answer to your question would be: you are talking about your agenda. But I think a technical briefing like that is very good. That is why I strongly responded to the term "unwill." If there are viable solutions; very much so. If you can find them with our people, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u109	I did some research on my own. That saves a lot of money. Booking.com in the Netherlands does not have tens of thousands of employees, but 5,500, with 80 nationalities, so a large proportion of those employees do not come from the Netherlands. I just wanted to give that to you. The Minister may respond to that, but I thought I'd make an advance on the upcoming investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you for that. I indicated that the rule of law applies here too. If you use the rule "for bonuses no support at all," it can bring with it tens of thousands, because then it will not only be about Booking.com. And frankly, a state of law also means that if a person is an employed person in the Netherlands under Dutch law, nationality does not matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you. I hear Mr Van Kent saying that he thinks six questions are too limited, but that happens in almost every debate. I'm going to ask the Minister if he'd like to continue his speech. I think he's ready for the third block now. You also have a second term, I say to Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr Aartsen, without "Van," asked me about the Event Fund. We are busy in consultation with the European Commission. We need authorisation from the European Commission. So our message to entrepreneurs is: you can start planning events after 1 July; you can prepare the application, but we still need that approval. Then Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Baarle asked about customization through branches. They mentioned, among other things, taxis and coaches. My answer to that is, for the sake of shortness of time, once again. I understand the question, because the setbacks are concentrated in a number of sectors. We've looked at this extensively, which is also described in the letter, whether you have a grip on, for example, industry codes. It turns out that this is not the case in practice. Here too, you run into the problem of legal equality very quickly again, which probably means that you can't define it either, regardless of the administrative issues. Mr De Jong then asked for specific support for bookshops. I have a warm heart for booksellers, but I believe that honesty also commands that booksellers in the Netherlands have had an increasingly difficult time for the pandemic due to the emergence of the Internet. In any case, I do not think it is right for me to make a separate arrangement for bookshops. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u113	Let's finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u114	I finished this block. Then I have a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u115	Look, Mr. Van Baarle felt good about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u116	I would like to touch on that aspect of sectoral aid. The Minister's response is: it is practically impossible. But we are already doing a number of things sectorally in support measures, for example for the cultural sector, and I also believe in the sport sector. To what extent is it, then, that it is virtually unworkable? That's the first thing. Then two. Get those cab drivers. ABN has calculated that taxi drivers will return three-quarters of their profits for three years three-quarters of their profits! In order to be able to pay the tax debt at all. That's just for the tax debt, so without any other debt. The situation is just extremely acute. So we are already doing things sectoral and the situation of taxi drivers is extremely urgent. My question to the Minister is, why don't you help them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u117	Here too, the provision of tailor-made work by sector is possible in theory, but I look first at the implementation side and then at the legal side is very practical. As one of the reasons I mentioned, the demarcation of sectors is not so easy, because there are all kinds of mixed companies and there is pollution from registrations to sectors. It's a little easier for sectors that used to have their own government offices. This applies very much to culture, and this applies very much to sport. It's gonna get harder when those fixed bandages aren't there. A second is equality of law. You mention the example of taxes. Mr Hoekstra will comment on this in a general sense. But that's where you'll get a question of legal equality. Many will be asking the exact same question. By the way, we are genuinely trying to meet this, but in a more generic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u118	It is therefore theoretically and practically feasible, but it is difficult. My question to the Minister is whether we allow practical difficulties to stand in the way of specifically helping a group that is in a very difficult situation. I just mentioned the numbers for the taxi industry. We are doing it in other sectors where we say they are having a very difficult time. I have just mentioned the examples. My question to the Minister is why there is no focus on taxi drivers who are having such a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u119	There are a lot of industries that are having a hard time. I've got a lot to do with that. I just had to respond to the bookstore. Again, that is also a group that I find very sympathetic, but quite different from what you call it. You come from the point of view of justice, but also more legally along the principle of equality of law, on that type of issue. We can't sweep implementation problems under the rug. I also think that a lesson from the research report to which you referred is that implementation problems are very real. So that is a question which we, as a government, expressly ask ourselves and which we share with your Chamber. That is sometimes with an annoying outcome, but they are real problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union and then Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u121	It is right that the Minister should refer to this point of the implementing organisations as a mirror, but in those reports, including the report on the surcharges Unknown injustice, there is also about all kinds of regulations: build in hardness clauses; also give a discretionary power on the ground, in order to be able to do justice to cases that you cannot just grasp in large schemes. I myself mentioned in my contribution the example of tailors, clothing dealers who work from home and specifically have their customers in nursing or nursing homes. They were shut down for them on the orders of the government. They were out of business, but they could not rely on an arrangement because they had no work address. Is it not right to give a little more room for discretion and decision-making by the implementing organisations, especially in the case of distressing cases, as the coronastorm is being flattened and what is going to lie down and there is a little more capacity for tailor-made delivery?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u122	Then it is very much a question of how and where that takes place. Mr Koolmees has just left, but the people in the example you mention are, I think, self-employed workers, who will thus end up in the self-employed scheme. Luckily, therefore, there is a regulation with considerable discretion for the municipalities. Some of you pointed that out, too. But then back to the question. There are now three real examples of sectors in which people have got into trouble. That is quite right, but there are three in this part of the debate alone. That illustrates the scale of the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u123	I understand the embarrassment. At the same time, it is too easy to say: we are taking care of the 99 and we are letting the one go. I'm just gonna say it like this to use a biblical image. Now that the coronastorm is going down, I think the time has come to look, in consultation with the implementation organisations, the UWV, the Tax Administration and the RVO, at the question of what really can be done to help those really distressing cases with customization. I am not asking you to give guarantees, but I am asking you to make an extreme effort to help those people, those entrepreneurs, whether they are self-employed or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u124	Two things about that. I agree with you that we should look with the implementation organisations at what is possible. That is why I was pleased with Mrs Maatoug's sketch. We've done it to the best of our consciences. I have already indicated that I can only be happy if you look for opportunities here in a briefing. I am totally open to that. Maybe I'm taking it a little hard, but I'm having a little trouble with you saying, "Save 99 and drop the 100th." I already indicated that we finally have this tailor-made scheme for the big companies. So it's really customized. That is not by definition dropped, but that is a very deep look at whether everyone really does the utmost, also on their part. Municipal schemes are also tailor-made according to their nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr De Jong of D66 for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u126	Maybe it's the beautiful weather, but with this weather you'll soon think about the festivals. You've just appointed it. In fact, you will quickly tap back the question about the events by saying: it is open again; we must wait for approval until we can actually start. Does the Minister agree with me that this creates enormous uncertainty for people and the companies that organise events? We get complaints from the field that the mandatory share of the loan is difficult for entrepreneurs. They also really need to fund deep again to organize an event. Can the Minister be more specific about when he expects organisers to be able to actually start the events with the guarantee scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u127	I recognise the uncertainty you mention, but I did not say for nothing that entrepreneurs can make plans for us and that we have a European State aid framework. We agree, I think, that it is good in itself to have applications from all over Europe, 27 countries. I have no reason to be gloomy about that, but a rule of law also means that I say: first the approval from Europe before we can open the window. But the window is also at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u128	I understand what you're saying and I understand what you're saying. However, it would be nice if I could hear from the Minister that he is holding his finger on the wrist in Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u129	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u130	...to actually see how we can get out of here as soon as possible. It is precisely your ministry that has put forward and urged us to see how fast we can go: everyone wants to go, we as a ministry want to go. Then it would help me very much if the Minister said: we keep our finger on the pulse and communicate to the sector as soon as possible how we can actually organise the festivals again with the guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr De Jong will receive a full yes as an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u132	There are a few more questions, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yes. The SGP specifically asked for contact with the group accommodation sector. We also have good discussions with this sector. I realise that this is indeed one of the sectors that has a long time to do with restrictions. When I said at the beginning 'I sincerely hope that we will get rid of the measures', I am thinking, among other things, of a sector like this. But the contact is there. Mr De Jong asked how we can help entrepreneurs who stop. Mr Amhaouch also replied. There is a comprehensive scheme in the package for entrepreneurs who are on the verge of a stop for business reasons. This is a combination of the new law, the approval agreement, and a separate credit facility to help those entrepreneurs who have come into this situation against their will. You have been given an overview of this before. In that you can see that we as a government are really willing to grant loans at a very difficult time, and indeed at quite a risk. Should they want to stop for that or any other reason, there is the possibility of the heavy weather window of the Chamber of Commerce, combined with the coaching of the Entrepreneur Soundboard about how to deal with it. In addition, the cabinet, Mr Dekker, is looking at whether a legislative amendment is possible to enable an enlightened rapid cessation of business. I cannot go into this in detail now, but we will come back to that before the summer. Mr Dassen asked what plans the cabinet would submit for the European recovery fund. This has been shared with the Chamber earlier that we are gathering ideas in consultation with all kinds of sections of society and that we do not think it is on the path of a missionary cabinet to present these plans and take the corresponding economic reform measures. Fortunately, the European calendar offers us the opportunity to do so later this year or perhaps early next year. Finally, Mr Dassen asked to look at the possibility of a cultural passport, which is also available in France. In a way, I find this sympathetic. I believe that the Netherlands has had similar arrangements in the past, but I think that is quite different from the aid package we are talking about. So I can't make any promises about that right now. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you. It's also a bit of your maiden speech. So I would like to congratulate you on having this debate so quickly within a week. I think that's good. We are going to clean up for a moment and then I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for his first term. It's nice if you tell me which cubes you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. Thank you, Madam President, and thank you also to the members of the Chamber for the questions and comments. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Maatoug, Mr De Jong and Mr Van Baarle on their maiden speeches. I know all three of them from outside this Chamber and I am very sure that they will have real added value in this Chamber in the coming period. So congratulations on the maiden speeches. I was thinking, I have no idea what I said ten years ago. I'm afraid it didn't suggest much. Many thanks also to all seventeen groups who were received by Bas van 't Wout and myself at the time to do a round to see what need lived in the House of Representatives when it came to extending the support package. I've appreciated that very much. It has also been very useful as an input to Mrs Simons' report on the preparation of a package. I would like to take this opportunity to wish Bas van 't Wout well and rest here too. A large part of the package that is here today has been created thanks to Bas van 't Wout. That's what I want to say. Mr Blok has done an excellent job after a week of raiding, but Bas van 't Wout has of course dragged a lot over the last few months to come to this settlement of the aid package. Having said that, I quote Mr Aartsen: there is light at the end of the tunnel. The vaccination campaign has come on steam and more and more companies can open their doors again, again this weekend. We also see hopeful signs of economic recovery and the limitations are gradually scaled down. Fortunately, social life is getting back on track. With the opening up of the economy and society, there will also be a time when choices must be made. This also means that new dilemmas are emerging. Mr Blok outlined some of them in his introduction. How much longer are you gonna keep supporting me? For example, how much longer are you gonna keep going through the NOW? But also: what are the risks involved? Mr Eerdmans quoted Mr Hasekamp of the Central Planning Office. Of course, there is always a balance between continuing to support entrepreneurs who are in trouble, but on the other hand there is a greater risk that aid will lead to improper use or that it will go wrong and then find its way into socially undesirable things. Think of the discussion that we are going to have about bonuses, for example, or about profits that are then partly funded by the public. Those are real dilemmas. That is why we have also created an extensive letter of 44 pages to share the dilemmas with you, both for the NOW and for the TVL as well as for all these discussions. Moreover, there is still a great deal of uncertainty among entrepreneurs, particularly in those sectors which still have restrictions. Think of the catering industry, think of the event sector, think of the arts and culture sector, which is still not fully operational. I also understand very well the almost unisono request from your Chamber to continue with support. But I also ask you as a Chamber to have an eye on the other side of that. I have had a lot of requests today for more or specific interpretations of between-the-wall and-the-ship variants. But be prepared to continue to see the shadows, for they are there. I'll get back to you in a little bit. Last year's labour market figures show that the Dutch economy is very resilient. We saw that last year in the third quarter. We can see that now. Last month unemployment had fallen to 3.4%. This also shows that the aid packages have contributed. It has also shown that in the sectors where people have been made redundant, people have been helped quickly from job to job or from benefit to work, thanks to the additional recovery package and the labour market regions. There are also companies that have kept their people in service and have not fired. Last year around this time it looked like that was going to happen. I think it is a positive signal that we can see that now, a year later. That doesn't mean everything's okay. It doesn't mean there's no trouble. I'm gonna go over that in a minute. However, I would like to say that these aid packages have done their job and have thereby also brought stability, both in employment and in the incomes of many people, and have ensured that companies have not gone bankrupt. That's what I wanted to say. I have four blocks: NOW, TONK, Tozo and others; all abbreviations. I'll start with the NOW. That is really the biggest block, because it includes the discussion about bonuses. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I have tried from the beginning to keep the Chamber in the dilemmas that are in the NOW regime. A number of times really complex issues, complex dilemmas and considerations have emerged. I've always shared it with your room. I sent a new dilemma letter a few weeks ago about what we run into in the implementation of the NOW. In the first phase, the NOW involved 140,000 companies which applied for aid. Of course, it is impossible to see from 140,000 companies exactly how they are structured, how the components function exactly whether it is really necessary or not. That's just impossible for the government to determine. So we had to make a generic package and we had to do this with, as I myself have called it, a stupid scheme, in full awareness that there were also risks involved: the risk of improper use, the risk that aid ends up in the wrong places. I exchanged it with your room, and your room accepted it. We now see, for example, that employers are faced with unexpectedly high recovery rates when determining NOW 1 and NOW 2. If that is the result of higher turnover than was previously expected, we find that a lot of entrepreneurs accept that very easily. They will say, "I panicked. There was great uncertainty. I said at the time that I expected 80% revenue loss, but that finally turned 40%, so I'm happy to pay it back. No discussion about it, because thanks to that NOW I was able to keep my company alive. I didn't fire people and I didn't panic." That's what I think tax money is spent on. Some of them will come back through the recovery. What is more difficult to explain is the fall in wages. We've noticed that in the past period. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Stoffer asked written questions about it, as did Mr Aartsen. This has, of course, to do with what was the biggest discussion last year around this time, namely: how do we ensure that people with a flex contract are kept in service? In that formula of the NOW, of course, there was also the maintenance of the wage bill. If you didn't fire those people, or if you didn't terminate the temporary contracts, or if you didn't call up calls, you just got NOW grant. But if you didn't, you'd be cut short on your NOW grant. That part's harder. In the letter we described in detail the dilemmas involved. It is also sometimes a difficult message for entrepreneurs that they have to pay back some of the aid, but it is in line with the NOW objective of maintaining employment. Nevertheless, it remains a problem, because there are recoverys. This means that companies sometimes get a nasty message and indeed have to pay back money. By the way, 70%, I think, will pay in a few weeks. I believe that is what Mr Aartsen said, or Mr Amhaouch. So for a large part it's not really a problem. But there are indeed a few companies that are faced with a accumulation of recoveries, not only from the NOW but also from the TVL, and because of tax debts. We have an eye for that. We need to find a way to do that. We have very long payback periods now. For example, we also have a period of a year in which companies do not have to pay back tax debts, a kind of breathing space, a "breath year." But we are also looking for ways to help the serious cases later. We don't see that yet, because we're still supporting it. We do not yet know exactly what the total damage is, but we will have to keep a finger on the wrist to do so responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u136	There is an interruption by Mr Van Dijck on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes, following the technical briefing. I think that the whole Chamber is shocked that the small piece that has been offered so far has already resulted in more than 60% repayment. These are sometimes very substantial refunds and, for a very large part, they are all about paying back. That makes sense, because that's from the panic. But when it comes to the wage bill, I think a lot of companies do not understand or understand that if a contract expires for a certain period of time, like last April, you expect them to extend it for a year because they are using this NOW scheme. I can imagine nine out of ten companies thinking: luckily, a contract ends, you don't know what the future will look like, so we'll stop that contract; and all the understanding on both sides that that contract will be terminated for a certain period of time. These people are now unexpectedly facing a wage drop and a refund. Is there not something to do on that particular point, in the sense that you can avoid a lot of bureaucracy, disappointment and discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u138	I understand Mr Van Dijck's question very well. It's exactly the struggle we've had and it's also described in that letter in a page or three. I am talking about the dilemmas in the NOW and the wage drop. I have also tried to outline the pros and cons. What also dominated the debate with the Chamber at the time was the question of how to ensure that people with flex contracts, people who are flexible, also keep security and are also paid for. So we've made that formula so that maintaining the wage bill is actually the subsidy from the NOW and that if you don't have that wage bill because you don't pay those wages anymore, you don't get a subsidy for that either. That's the reasoning. In many cases, this has worked out well, that people have been paid and have kept their jobs. I understand very well that if that lasts longer, entrepreneurs will no longer renew temporary contracts. But then I find it unfair that companies that have done so and have paid for it because they have listened to the government's call to apply the NOW, are compensated for it afterwards, as it were... I find that difficult to explain too, because then you will find yourself in another dilemma: what exactly was this arrangement for? Apart from that, Mr Van Dijck is right, namely that it can be a very nasty surprise. That is why we said six months ago: take your time to repay such amounts. So they don't have a year but five years with a good payment schedule to pay back this account. That's the first thing. Secondly, we now also see that 80% of the recoveries are caused by a higher than expected turnover, i.e. by the company simply turning better. Sometimes it also means that companies are below the 20% threshold and they have to repay the entire NOW grant. But we hear a lot less complaints about that. It is therefore a smaller part of the refund price, but it does have to do with the dilemma we had, which the scheme was also intended for, namely the payment of wages to prevent panic in the Dutch economy and the Dutch labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u139	Very briefly. If you don't terminate a contract like this for a certain period of time, it's a permanent contract. So as soon as you pay that person another month from the NOW, that person is on permanent duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u140	Yeah, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u141	At a time when you're closed and have zero sales. So you don't want to. So you're closed and you have zero sales and you don't want to renew that contract for a certain period of time, because you don't know how long that shit is gonna last. And you don't want that person on permanent duty either. So it's a very logical reaction that such a contract of employment is terminated, with all the disappointment. I merely ask for some understanding to see whether it is possible to rule out such specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u142	I have a great deal of sympathy for the entrepreneur who stands for this consideration. I have two answers to your question. The first is: if that happens, then that entrepreneur will no longer have any wage costs for that person. So then it is obvious that there is no more subsidy for it. Mr Van Dijck will agree with me. The second is that we can't figure out in the UWV's systems what's causing someone to quit duty, whether they've been fired, voluntary departure or retirement. We can't see that in the UWV systems. Because of the speed and the 140,000 companies, we can't apply it either. Well, that's just one of those dilemmas. A company that's fired people is then overcompensated while a company where people have volunteered to leave... well, you understand the dilemma. So considering everything, we have decided not to do so, also because it requires that you work retroactively and therefore 60,000 to 70,000 findings have to be made again. That is extremely complex and complicated for the implementation, but I understand the dilemma very well. To be honest, I do not have a satisfactory answer either. I'll admit that, too. That has to do with the complexity that we are in. So we have always had to balance speed and feasibility. We then rigged the scheme in a few weeks and in a few days they were also paid so that the salaries and the holiday allowance could be paid. Especially at the beginning of the pandemic that was really the great uncertainty. In this light, I would also like to mention the bonuses and dividends paid in some cases, sometimes by foreign parent companies, over 2020. Let me be clear. I don't think that's desirable. I think that's a very bad signal. As I indicated in my letter yesterday, the imposition of additional conditions in this context may have an impact on employment and on the risks to implementation. I'm about to go into more detail about bonuses at Booking. I will come back to that separately, because a lot of questions have been asked about it. In general, I sent a letter yesterday about the NOW 4. I hope you've read it. In that I have outlined the dilemmas and how you can deal with them. For example, I made an appointment with the trade union movement about her involvement, to keep a finger on the wrist when it comes to bonuses and dividends. I have also, since the beginning, at the first press conference, always made a moral appeal to employers to use the NOW only if it was really necessary. Last week, I repeated that in the press conference. I also recognise that I cannot entirely judge that. We in The Hague or at UWV cannot assess the situation in many individual companies. We have criteria, like sales drop, and we have a paycheck. We can check it, because it has the UWV. That's the simple arrangement. It has worked out very well, but in some cases it feels unjust. One adjustment that we did, is that from the NOW 3 we pulled the NOW and the TVL apart. It was the case that the TVL counted as revenue for the NOW. Since we raised the TVL in a number of steps, from up to €90,000 per quarter to ultimately €600,000 per quarter and from 50% to 100%, this would increasingly be borne by the NOW grant. We thought that was undesirable. Why don't we just do it from the NOW 3? In the NOW 1 we had the TOGS of €4,000. That was a very small and limited arrangement. In the NOW 2 we had the first TVL. It was much lower and some of the findings have already been made. If you're gonna have to do it again, you're gonna need new audit reports and you're gonna get new costs. So that's why we don't. But from the NOW 3, so from the 1st of October, we're going to pull them apart, even after signals from the employers and the unions. The fair story is: then begins the conclusion of my introduction to the NOW............................................................................................................................................................................................. This is inevitable with such a generic package for 140,000 companies, of which we cannot see from The Hague exactly what has been right or wrong, because we had to do it executable and fast. That was also the reality and uncertainty we were in at the time. In between it continues to search for a balance. I try to do so as clearly as possible and share the dilemmas with your Chamber every time. Mr President, then... I see that Mr Van Dijk wishes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u143	Is it okay if we finish this block first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yes. It's gonna take a long time. I want to start now with Booking.com and the bonuses. Oh, Mr Van Dijk has a question about that too. I think there'll be more questions about that. Many parties have asked questions about the situation at Booking.com. I understand that very well. Let me begin with a personal opinion. After all, I cannot help thinking that you decide to pay millions of bonuses to a company that has lost 70% of its turnover, has dismissed 5,000 people worldwide and has shown 99% of its profits. Apart from aid measures, apart from all such elements, there is a bonus package of EUR 28 million. And yes, it's long-term and it's all towards the future. Those are all mitigating circumstances. I'll admit that, too. But after about a year with so much turnover drop and 5,000 layoffs, I can't reconcile that. That's my personal opinion. Last Friday, when I read that news report, I read that piece when I entered the Council of Ministers, not only inside the Chamber but outside the Chamber, a bit cursed. I admit that fairly, but my personal standards are not the same as the legal standards. That's why it suits me as a minister to always be a little careful and not to curse in your Chamber. With the NOW, we as a State have partly financed the wage costs of entrepreneurs. That is also the case here. The wage costs of the employees in this company were paid during that period, partly with this subsidy. If people were fired during that period, that subsidy would also have been cut. That did not happen, because that employment was maintained there. Only then, so from the NOW 2 period, did the company reorganise and people were fired and left with departure arrangements. But then they had no recourse to the NOW scheme. That's one. Moreover, the NOW 1 did not have a bonus or dividend ban at the outset. We also discussed this; at least, not us, but the Prime Minister and Mrs Marijnissen, in April last year. For in the three weeks that we have rigged that arrangement and have it carried out by the UWV there was simply no time to think about all kinds of conditions. I remember a debate with Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party on sustainability conditions that were also attached to them. That was simply not possible; before that it had to be too fast and the complexity was too great. In addition, our analysis was then in times of extreme uncertainty and there was then, because the whole of the Netherlands was still, the streets were empty and no one had any idea how long it was going to take to add extra uncertainty to conditions would lead to a greater risk of mass redundancies. For these types of companies I am also thinking of the KLM and the whole travel industry was stopped at once in the world. For example, this company lost 700 million euros in the second quarter, we know from the public documents. My feeling at the time was: if we hang up all kinds of conditions now, that will lead to uncertainty and to large firing rounds. We didn't want to; we wanted to avoid that at all costs. Later, in April, a motion was tabled by Mr Jetten cum suis, with almost all the group chairmen, in which it was said: do so with the NOW 2. At that time we also devised conditions, together with the social partners, we also involved the auditors and indeed added those conditions on bonus, dividend and no purchase of own shares. But for the NOW 1 it didn't apply. So I fully understand the question of your Chamber "what can you legally choose to recover it?" Morally, I understand that very well. The answer is very simple: there was no such condition, so there is no legal way to request it back. I also find it complicated, I have received this suggestion a number of times in the past week, in order to adapt the rules retroactively. I don't think that's part of a trustworthy government. I just don't think that's right for entrepreneurs who were in great uncertainty at the time. I thought it was Mr Amhaouch who said: you have also had examples of companies that have deliberately chosen to pay it back. Auping has become known; that's what the newspaper got. I know there are more companies that have done that. I will not dwell on that because they have not sought publicity themselves, but there are more companies that have done so. That is the responsibility of the individual company. I cannot look into the books of these companies, because I also know that a lot of those companies, which, for example, achieved more revenue later in the year and have been restored, have also used the NOW to relocate people. To help people from one factory to another factory, to provide job guarantees or from the catering industry to another branch in one company. So I don't think it's up to me to change these conditions retroactively, because I can't see exactly what happened there at 140,000 companies. Apart from that, I have heard very well your Chamber's appeal on this point, and I have already spoken with social partners, particularly with employers' organisations, about the ban on bonuses and dividends and about the moral aspect of this, including for business. In addition to the motion adopted on 24 March, I believe that the Ploumen-Kröger-Kröger motion was also sent yesterday in order to make an additional tightening up, and to strengthen the involvement of the trade unions, especially with foreign mothers, because there is a real inconvenience there, including with myself. I'd like to continue that conversation. I would like to do that, so your Chamber's call to talk to the larger business community about that, I'm going to do that. But I'm gonna be careful to talk to individual companies. Mrs Maatoug had the suggestion to do so in your Chamber. I do not, of course, care about that; I leave that to you, but I understand that, because of the social outrage. But I also have a legal system and a reliable government to stand for, so I think I should be a little more careful about that. That was a bit of my answer to the questions that have been asked on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mr Van Dijk, then Mr Amhaouch and then Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u146	I think the indignation about what the Booking Summit did is not directed towards the cabinet, but especially towards the company. I also know very well that we in the Chamber have also accepted that, particularly in the first period of the very great crisis, jobs and businesses had to be saved with this very great uncertainty. We also supported this operation, with all the moral demands to the business community not to abuse the money. It will happen anyway and we hope that it will happen on a small and not on a large scale. The latter is not my picture either, but we will discuss it here in the coming months and years. This is specifically about doing something really immoral, something scandalous: receiving 100 million state aid and still securing that bonus. Legally, I don't think we have much of a way to go, but we can call as Chamber Booking and so can the Cabinet. Especially when such a gross exceedance of the moral rules we have indicated in this package, it is not at all bad that the cabinet against the top of Booking's booking is a Dutch company saying: come and talk to us. From the past with the banking sector, we know that pressure from the cabinet and from the Chamber can help to make this kind of business run anyway because they see at once: hey, we also have a role in society, we also have a social impact and it is now very negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u147	I understand this. Thank you for the nuance in Mr Gijs van Dijk's question, because I very much agree with him and I appreciate that because I am also struggling with this. I have already indicated that I do not rule out the fact that there are more examples in the NOW 1, which are not subject to these conditions, of companies which, for example, have increased their turnover in the third or fourth quarters or may even have made profits in the end. Yes, I would like to talk to the summit of the larger business community about this point, which I admit to the Chamber, but I find it complicated to get one company out of it now. That also has something of arbitrariness on my part. Once again, I understand Mrs Maatoug's request, given the social uproar, but I think I should do it more broadly, especially towards the large consumers of the NOW. I intend to. To focus on one company I find really complicated, because I also cannot see exactly what happened to the money. Perhaps it has been used very well for retraining and further training, relocation and guidance to other jobs, so that people have not been paid benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u148	I do not agree with the cabinet on this part, with Mr Koolmees. It is just as a guardian of social security and as a guardian of the aid package that it is normal to specifically address a large consumer of the NOW and the support measures in such a gross, large bonus. Maybe there'll be more companies. I agree with the Minister on this, but it is not surprising to say: hey, we are going too far, I want to talk to you. Then they can always make another assessment, because unfortunately we did not design it that way legally. That fits a minister who says: this is about my moral limits; I am not only calling it against the media, against society, but also specifically against this company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u149	I started with my moral limits in my explanatory statement. What I really object to is pulling out one company and appealing to it. I find that careless. We need to get this wider. It is my expectation that in the second half of this year things were going very well in many sectors of the Dutch economy. Again, I understand very well that in the first phase of the pandemic there was uncertainty in all kinds of sectors: what is the effect of the coronapandemic on the long term of my company? I would like to have this conversation in a broader context, but I have some hesitation in standing and ringing on the doorstep of one individual company and taking that company as an example. I find that complicated. We have established the legal framework and the conditions here together. We have talked about this; there has even been a motion that has not been adopted, because it was one of the considerations at the time. So I would like to do it in the broad context and not for one company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u150	The Minister indicated that there are companies that have repaid the aid. At first, I do not think that was technically possible, but I understand from Mr Palland that there is now a button that allows you to refund money without difficulty. It's a unique thing. I also understand that the Minister says: with retroactive effect you should not ask things back, because then you are going to change the rules of the game. But I would like to look forward, for example, to the arrangements we will have in Q3. Suppose at the end of the year companies make more sales than before. How do you look at that? We are talking about solidarity and making a contribution. If you don't need it and you spin it right, you have to make a point of it. On the one hand, we are going along with the arrangements. We've made them higher. The TVL was first 50%, then 85% and now 100%. On the other hand, I would like a reflection from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u151	Three things. Firstly, it is true that companies willing to pay back voluntarily can do this relatively easily. Then you have to apply for a zero and you can refund the amount. I have just said that several companies have used it. Not everyone has sought publicity. But I do appreciate that. These are companies that did not need this in retrospect and thus give hands and feet to our moral appeal from the beginning. The second point. This is one of the most important dilemmas we have faced in recent weeks. Mr Hoekstra will be discussing this in greater detail in a moment. We also see that a large part of the economy is open again and that there are a lot of sectors that have made a lot of revenue and profits. In the second quarter of 2020, they may have been affected by the global standstill of the economy, for example, the drying up of transport from China, but later in the year they made up for this by increasing their turnover. Maybe they're turning very well now because the economy is sending out all kinds of green signals. Then the package breathes. If you don't have 20% turnover loss or more, you don't get any NOW support. The TVL even has a 30% threshold. Part of it is therefore automatically good, but another part will soon show that companies have received support in the second quarter, which has had relatively high turnover and even profits in the rest of 2020 and 2021. Mr Hoekstra will deal with this in a little more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr Van Kent of the SP and then Mrs Simons of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u153	100 million public aid and 28 million in the pockets of three drivers in the form of a bonus. The Minister states that he has cursed out loud and indicates in the debate that he can't reach it with his head, but then he doesn't act. I just heard the Minister say: I still hesitate to choose one company and appeal to it. Well, we have here a dike of an example. A very serious offense that we widely reject. I shall be tabling a motion in the second term, which can count on a large majority, with the House saying that this is not right and that the money has to come back. Does the Minister agree to that call? Does this minister call on Booking.com to repay that support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u154	Before that, I really want to hear what the considerations of that company have been. I also said this on Friday when I was confronted with this image in the article in NRC. That's why I cursed. A company that has received state aid, 75 million from the Netherlands in the NOW, and does not pay out a bonus for this year at the end of the year, but still offers something for the long term, is a very wrong signal. I agree with Mr Van Kent. In the broader responsibility of more companies that have applied for the NOW and where more of these kinds of issues can play, I think that this needs to be carefully investigated. I want to hear exactly what is happening here and what considerations have been made there before I can draw this conclusion. More broadly, I understand the reactions in society and in the Chamber very well, because that is also my initial responsibility. But I am also a minister and I also have a legal reality and an executive to stop and defend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u155	I hear the Minister saying that he wants to know what considerations have been made and what the situation is now. That means this minister is talking to Booking.com. Otherwise, he won't be able to find out. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mr Van Kent will finish for a moment and then the Minister will have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u157	This minister states that he wants to know exactly what is going on and what considerations there have been. That means that conversation is going to take place. I mention, for example, Invest-NL, greening subsidies or other things. For example, there are consequences of this super wrong behavior that is cashed on corona. I would like to call on the Minister to make a clear statement, to join the appeal from the Chamber to Booking, and to draw consequences for this behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr Van Kent was twisting my words a little bit. I have already indicated to Mr Gijs van Dijk that I want to talk to a wider representation, not from one company, but from several companies that have applied for NOW, including that one company Booking. That's right. That's what I want to do, from the broader discussion. I do not want to set one company as an example in this discussion. What does this mean, for example, for companies which were faced with a sudden halt in the world economy in the second quarter, which may have achieved more turnover later in the year, have turned better, or have made other considerations? For example, in the case of Booking, 1,000 people have been fired. I'd like to have that conversation, but in that broader context. Of course, I'll bring the signals from your room. I will also pass it on to the representatives of the business community. As far as the future is concerned, Mr Blok has just given an answer. I very much agreed with Mr Blok. If you categorically rule it out, in a potentially new uncertain situation you can again run the risk that the company will still apply for a mass discharge in order to be sure. We all want to avoid that. We have all tried to prevent this in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u159	Can the Minister indicate when he's going to have a conversation and inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u160	No. I'm definitely going to inform the Chamber about that. I'm gonna find a good delegation to conduct that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u161	Including Booking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u162	I think the Minister has confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u163	Yeah, I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u164	I would like to build on the answer that the Minister has just given to Mr Van Kent. Actually, I'm curious. I've heard the Minister say he's rejecting this behavior, and he doesn't think it's decent. But, yeah, it's okay. It's legally correct. My question is what the Minister will do differently in future in such a situation in the formulation of the agreements he makes with companies when they apply for this kind of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u165	Let's be careful. I said in my introduction that I do not understand it properly, cannot explain it properly, nor am I going to defend the fact that a company with so much turnover loss, with so many compulsory redundancies and with such a drop in profits, decides to offer such a large bonus to the board of directors. I don't understand. That's not just about support. It concerns, in a broader sense, remuneration policies and bonuses in large companies. I can't defend that, and I don't want to defend that either. The relationship with the support package is that there were no such conditions in the NOW 1. It had to be rigged in a hurry and speed, so we didn't. That is also because we were afraid that if we put all kinds of conditions on the aid, a lot of companies that would not apply and would opt for mass redundancies. That's a trade-off we made at the time. Later, in the NOW 2 but also in the group scheme, as it is called, we did indeed set these conditions. From NOW 2 onwards, there is therefore a ban on paying out bonuses, dividends and buying-in own shares for those companies using the NOW. This applies to the NOW 2, 3, and 4. In the NOW 4 we have taken an extra step for the foreign mothers. These are the shareholders who are abroad and who have, for example, one factory or a working company in the Netherlands. In that we have now taken a step further, as stated in the letter I sent to your Chamber last night. These conditions are therefore now enshrined in laws and regulations. This means, for example, that you have a legal way to recover if you do, or to impose a fine if you do. That's in the arrangements now. That was not in the April, May and June 2020 arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u166	I might conclude that in the future too, in a new panic situation, we will at least be talking about this in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u167	Sure, but it's not entirely fair what you're saying right now. We have certainly discussed this dilemma with each other. I believe that this was on 18 March last year, on the evening when Mr Bruins became unwell here, but also on 14 April, a month later, in the SZW committee. On 1 April there was even a debate on this issue with the Prime Minister and Mrs Marijnissen. Then the Chamber rejected a motion by Mrs Marijnissen. The Court therefore decided by a majority not to do so, because the analysis was that the risks of mass dismissal were too great. You didn't want to take that risk at the time. That too is the reality. I find it faint, not of you personally, because you weren't there at the time, to make a accusation now as if we hadn't thought about it. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u168	I don't have a question anymore. Then, hopefully together with the Minister, I am very happy that there is now a new Chamber, which is watching with the knowledge of today and will be careful not to make these mistakes anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u170	I can only confirm that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union and then Mr Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u172	To finalize the list, the Segers motion was adopted at the end of May, which is precisely in favour of making responsible management a condition for aid in future. This also applies to the future, in the event of future crises. I come to my question. The Minister is quite right about his story about how it went, also legally. However, I would like to see if I can get a step further than Mr Van Kent. I don't want to stir up the history of the dividend tax too much, but then it was also possible to call an individual company. What is against calling Booking.com after this debate and making it clear that this form of capitalism is not the form of capitalism we want in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u173	I have already given that answer in the direction of Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Kent. Actually, I didn't want to repeat that. I'm sticking to my previous answer. I think that is so careful, because I sincerely do not know what other examples there are. I simply do not think it is fair if I do not know exactly what has happened and what considerations have been made. Call it overprotective, but that's what I'm attached to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u174	Clear, but the Minister did say that he was talking to a number of companies. Will he then also give the Chamber an insight into what came out of those conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u175	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u176	And if he has any clarity as to what the considerations have been, for example of Booking.com or of others who may have behaved in this way, would he like to inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u178	The Minister just promised. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle for his fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u179	I am a little surprised at the velvet glove that this government seems to be using for big business, with just EUR 28 million, EUR 28 million! Tax money from Dutch people who already have a very hard time has disappeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u180	Actually, that's incorrect. I like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u181	Correct it, but it doesn't change the fact that it's an enormous amount that's disappeared in drivers' pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u182	Minister, I'll give you the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u183	The Minister states that he first wants to talk to the company, which was just literally said to see what its reasons are, what its backgrounds are. Does this not actually indicate that there might be circumstances in which such an act would receive aid and then pay out huge amounts of bonuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u184	That's why it's important to walk past the facts. The NOW is a scheme aimed at maintaining employment and providing a subsidy on the wage bill. The NOW funds, which total 65 million euros, have gone to the wages of employees who received their salary at Booking.com. The NOW was a percentage of up to 90%. This means that the company always has to pay part of the wages itself. So, on balance, it never gets any money out of it. The money transferred to a company has gone completely, even more than completely, to the employees' salaries at Booking.com. To make it even more technical, it is 90% plus a storage factor for pensions, holiday allowances and that sort of thing. I know that storage isn't enough to cover all those costs. In other words, even with the NOW, it cost money. That is why that is not factually correct. The other point, the more moral and normative point, is indeed: if you are such a big company and you have so much turnover and you have made so much profit in the years before, should you apply for such an aid scheme? I think that is a very fair question which has already surfaced in the Chamber last summer. I would like to talk about this once again. But it's not like this money went straight to the bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u185	There was no direct answer to my question. It's good to keep the discussion pure, but still... The company received support and a huge amount, 28 million, of bonuses went to drivers. The Minister just said: "Before I make an individual statement about such a company, I want to do two things. I want to know if it's happening in other companies and I want to know the background to why this happened." The second is interesting to me. If the minister wants to know the background to why this happened, he actually says: "There is a way to condone this. There could be a reason to get huge amounts of support first, to be in the state's pocket, and then to pay 28 million in bonuses to drivers"? Or does the Minister just say quite clearly: "No, there can be no reason for it. That's just rejectable in all situations"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u186	I started with the analysis that I find it incomprehensible that a company that has suffered so much loss of sales and so many people have made such a bonus to the board of directors. I have also said that this is separate from the support debate. One can make a nuanced argument about support, namely that the money has gone to employees' salaries. As an economist, I know: money is fungible. It's one pack of money for the whole company. If your turnover falls and the turnover is offset by support measures, that's just money that ends up in the company. I agree with Mr Van Baarle. What I do know is that in the past period I have seen a number of examples of companies that were hit hard by the corona crisis in the second quarter and that have made up for it later in the year because they have achieved a bit more turnover. The benefit of the NOW has been well spent money there, for example, because no people have been fired. There's been no request for mass dismissal. Also within groups people have been helped from one factory to another factory. They went from one job to another, so they didn't end up in benefits. They no longer work at the factory where they first worked, but were helped by that money to a different situation. When it comes to the NOW, the emergency scheme for maintaining employment, I still think that public money is well spent. So that's my nuance. That's my point, my broad analysis. I believe that there are more companies that have actually achieved more turnover in the second half of 2020. This was also demonstrated yesterday by the analysis of the officials of the Ministry of Finance. That's what was in the paper yesterday. Let me give you a concrete example. In April 2020 I spoke to a bicycle factory. The factory said: "I may have to fire all my people, because I don't know how to assemble bicycles at a distance of 1.5 meters. Everything's stopped now." In the second half of the year a lot of bicycles were sold, because all of Europe went cycling. He couldn't see that coming then. Then he was about to fire people. Then he was about to reorganise. Luckily, the NOW didn't do that. A little while later, he made a good turnout. Is it bad that he applied for the NOW? No, I don't. Do I find it more morally debatable when that person pays himself a fat bonus? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u187	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u188	Because the debate is about dilemmas, it is first of all very nice that we have received a commitment from the Minister that he will talk to a number of individual companies in a group. The dilemma I wanted to share is in line with the question put by the colleague of the Christian Union. I'm gonna make it a little big. I don't know if this was a useful intervention, but we're about to find out. In the end, we are also talking about how our market and our capitalist system operate. The market, society, is more than a legal cohesion. It is also a normative collective, I say just referring to my input. The inconvenience I have with the answers we get is in the following. One step at a time, I'm actually following it. Step by step, I follow the conclusion. We're getting results that are legally correct. But if I had to formulate a standard based on the answers, you could hear: as long as it is legally possible, it is allowed. You're not saying that, but I'm saying that very explicitly. That is not the norm we apply. That is why the Minister also starts with a moral rejection from the individual. I find it very uncomfortable, Mr President, I am going to conclude that the accumulation of all these things can lead to a standard that we do not want in the market, especially when I see that there is a shift. A lot of research and scientists say: we have gone to a whole individualistic standard, where the market says "if I can just dump it on others." I find that very damaging. I find it uncomfortable about this debate, Mr President, and I do not know how to reverse it, because if we simply continue to answer 'legally this is factually correct', we will end up with a standard that is not desirable. I'd like a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u189	If it's all right with you, I'll do the extended reflection later, maybe at the Square. Why did I react like I did? That was because the request came from the Chamber: can you do everything you can to recover it? That was the answer to the question. I fully agree with you on that normative point, but there is, and I sincerely believe that, a difference between the private sector and the public sector. We also say here almost everywhere in Parliament that there must be a ceiling in the public sector for the remuneration of taxpayers' money. A lot of people agree on that. There are more freedoms in the private sector; many people agree with that. That is why I began my assessment of this case by saying that I cannot defend it and I do not want to defend it, and frankly I do not understand it either. Unfortunately, I see a wider picture that in companies, especially in internationally oriented companies, the bonuses and the remuneration packages of the board of directors are so high that I can no longer defend that. But that's a different point from what I answered. I answered the question: can you recover, yes or no? I think I have given a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u190	Short, Mr. Chairman. I would also appreciate that we do have that reflection, and not in this debate. I see it in a lot of debates, we see it in climate debates, we see it in tax evasion debates, we see it every time we come up with that individual legal piece, but we are perhaps in the process of creating a standard. I think it is important that we not only have this reflective conversation on the Square, not only individually behind the scenes in a nice seminar, but also here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u191	I agree with Mrs Maatoug on that last point. I do not entirely agree with her interim conclusion, because I do think that something is happening. I believe that the social debate on bonuses and remuneration policies will lead to a debate in the boardroom, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the wider world, and also to a social debate on the tax on profits and tax avoidance and what consequences that has. I think that's just profit. You shouldn't be too... I wanted to say "impotent," but that's a bad word. We should not put ourselves down to that. That's not true. Look at what we have done in recent years with, for example, ATAD, combating profit shifting. That is profit, also for society as a whole. But again, we'll do that again later. Another moral question came today from the Labour Party and the SP about the min-maxures and the overtaking of minures. I understand this question very well, because it is the same. I say honestly that I find it complicated that I have also heard a lot of employers and trade unions or workers' representatives who have made excellent agreements with each other. For example: the holiday allowance is not paid in May this year, but later in the year. Or: we've been closed for three months, so you want to turn in a quarter of your vacation days, otherwise it'll be very expensive for the employer. I understand that. I do not want to stand in the way of these agreements either, because I believe that employers and employees should be able to make agreements between themselves. Where it gets complicated, where it starts sanding and where it is undesirable as far as I am concerned, it is when working conditions are taken away from workers against their will or without their consent. You can't just do that. This cannot be done without the agreement of the works council or the trade union movement. The case that Mr Van Dijk asked for in particular is very specific. The Wibracasus is now under the judge. It is then complicated for me to make a statement on this, but my line, Mr Amhaouch, said that, of course, it is also true that this is first for the collective agreement parties or for the employer and the employee, and that it cannot simply be abolished or forfeited. That's not how labour law works. The conditions of employment in the Netherlands do not work that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u192	Very briefly. We are particularly concerned about the group that was at home because of a lockdown and that has to catch up free of charge. Normally that works according to the collective agreement, because sometimes you work a little more and sometimes you work a little less. There's some kind of balance there. But now it was the lockdown that forced it, and so it was undesirable for the people who sat at home. Those companies also received state aid. So here too, there is a bigger role than just the legal and the framework, just like at Booking.com we talked about. It has to be said from the cabinet that this type of agreement is inappropriate. And we say the same from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u193	In general, I agree with that, unless, for example, agreements have been made... Two things. In the NOW I can't control it, because the NOW compensates for paid wages. So in the payroll administration of the UWV, it just says how much pay has been paid. That's what the subsidy is based on. So I can't check whether they're min-maxures or other forms of contract. So I can't live up to that. It is therefore the responsibility of the individual employer to agree on this in consultation with the workers' organisation or the trade union. I also think that we should have the space to make these agreements. And if they are unilateral agreements, then of course the parties are free to go to court. This is how our civil justice system works: Mr Van Dijk knows this as a former trade unionist. It happens very often that this way is straightened out. But in normative terms, I agree with Mr Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijck asked: can the current lower limit of €500 be raised in the case of recovery? It's possible. We have had the discussion here about how much administrative burden and how much recovery is involved. But there's also something unreasonable in it. A person who has to pay €510 in a manner of speaking must pay it back. Each border is arbitrary. We have now chosen €500. Yeah, it's true that if you sit much higher, you'll also have fewer recoverys. But also the budgetary impact and the unreasonableness will then become much greater. So we have now chosen €500, and I would like to stick to that, unless your Chamber decides otherwise. There is no scientific formula to determine the optimal amount. Mr Van Dijck also asked why the TVL is not retroactively excluded from the turnover in the NOW. I said that a little in my introduction. It is because in the NOW 1 the TOGS was only €4,000, and the TVL in the NOW 2 was still limited. So they were relatively small amounts. Moreover, we would have to re-examine all the findings, because there are already a lot of audit reports and that sort of thing. So because of a combination of these arguments, we'll do it from the NOW 3, starting October 1, 2020. Mr Amhaouch asked: why does the NOW require a third party statement and not a so-called pure third party statement? I have a very long answer in technology. It is my belief that what we are doing now, so the proposal that I sent to your Chamber on Monday not to make a statement of up to €40,000, ultimately results in more administrative burden relief than a pure third party declaration, as it exempts a large part, particularly of SMEs, from a declaration. I am convinced that this will also help more than a pure third party declaration to reduce administrative burdens and to combat the costs that entrepreneurs have to incur for the aid packages. In my view, Mr Amhaouch also asked the question about the relationship between the TVL and the NOW. In the TVL 1 and the TVL 2 the border was of course €90,000. And we ask for an audit opinion from a threshold of €125,000 subsidy. That explains why the two of them broke up. Now that the amount goes to €600,000 in the TVL that is now being announced, an audit report will also have to be submitted there. And so it's useful to coordinate that with each other. If we know more about this, we're going to inform your Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u194	That raises a question for Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yes. One is turning the dial of the amount, so the threshold. But of course two is the question of whether a simple third party statement of up to €125,000 does not entail much less administrative burden for the accountant and therefore for SMEs, but also for the UWV review. For I understand that drawing up a normal third party statement is twenty to thirty hours' work, and a simple third party statement is only five hours. Then you're talking about the four-eyed principle. So we should not take very big risks at once. But we do expect to have a good look at this, because at this stage nobody is waiting for this, either at the UWV, or at the audit firm, or at the entrepreneurs. So I'm asking you to think along without going crazy and taking too much risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u196	I appreciate that last part. We have also made this assessment with each other. Our estimate is that this variant of €40,000 will ultimately result in more administrative burden relief than a pure third-party statement, and that audit firms are still extremely busy and perhaps unable to cope with the pure third-party statement. Those were the two considerations to choose this variant anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u197	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u198	Is it the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u199	Yeah, it's going fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u200	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mr Stoffer asked if we had talked to more organisations about reducing the burden on administrative controls. A few arguments have already come along in other questions, for example: why not go back to NOW 1 and NOW 2, or merge them? Because a lot of statements and audit reports have already been issued there, in particular for the account for NOW 1. Then you'd have to do double work again. That's the most important argument. Another example is the discussion I had with Mr Amhaouch on that pure third party statement. We have simply made a different weighting of what we believe leads to less administrative burdens. A third argument is, for example, a proposal by the NBA, the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants, for a different way of distributing bonuses and dividend control. Also given the fuss we have just talked about and the discussion we have had about Booking.com, I do not think that is a sensible route and I want to stick to the original proposal. These are three examples that have been discussed very intensively with, among others, the NBA in the context of the audit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr Stoffer has another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u203	I was away for a moment in the first part of the debate, but I have the impression that the Minister and I may misunderstand each other. Because for me, it's not necessarily the intention to change things. I'm actually just curious about what's been going on. It was actually a question of information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u204	Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I sent a very comprehensive letter with six modifications to your room. I'm gonna go check for the second term to see if we've got that ready or easy to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u205	I was actually concerned with the broad palette: also the things that have been shared, but they have not become, and especially with the argument why they have not become. It's purely informative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u206	So I mentioned three. We are not going back to NOW 1 and NOW 2, with retroactive effect, because statements have already been made. The second is that the pure statement, which Mr Amhaouch also asked for, could be better dealt with by the €40,000 threshold that we are now proposing, as it would increase the burden relief for the smaller SMEs in particular. And the third was the adjustments of bonuses and dividends, for which the NBA had another proposal that we did not consider appropriate, also in the light of the current discussion about Booking.com. So that's what the trade-offs were. TONK. This subject has also been raised very often in my round of meetings with the political groups, including Mrs Simons. We are talking about taxi drivers, sex workers; all vulnerable groups who are at risk of falling between shore and ship. We were first Tamara van Ark and Bas van 't Wout as Secretary of State, of course, have been looking for a way to meet people who fall between shore and ship if they are unexpectedly without income, regardless of the form of employment contract: whether it is an independent or a dga, a director-major shareholder, or someone with a flex contract without a right to WW. For example, sex workers often do not have a contract of employment, but they are also not self-employed and therefore are not eligible for the NOW and are not eligible for the Tozo. That's why we came up with the TONK. That was also really a while together with the congregations looking for how we were going to shape it. In the first phase, that did not get off the ground, I say honestly. We've had a lot of intensive conversations. Last week I answered questions from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr De Jong, together with a list of what is now happening in various municipalities. Many municipalities then also look at center municipalities for the standards, so to the larger municipalities in the neighborhood. You can see that much more generous arrangements have been agreed in recent weeks. I also sent that survey to your room. After 1 July, I intend to send you an update of the TONK scheme, so that you will also be aware of what is happening. Mr De Jong asked for that. To Mrs Maatoug I say: I have had a lot of contact with municipalities. I recently spoke to the G40 aldermen about the TONK scheme. Once again, I will have the municipalities which still have a lousy arrangement approached, so to speak. The point is, of course, that the TONK is based on the special assistance, where the municipalities have a great freedom of policy. We have done this consciously in order to get the money quickly to the people, especially the taxi drivers, the sex workers and the people working in the arts and culture sector in a hybrid form, i.e. partly employed and partly self-employed, and who really get into trouble with their housing costs and their insurance. That's what the TONK was made for. We have made available 260 million euros retroactively from 1 January of this year and we monitor the use monthly. If there's any new information, I'll inform your room about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u207	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Simons of BET1 and then by Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u208	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and certainly also for the good intention I have tried every time we talk about these specific groups. In particular, I'd like to come back to the sex workers. The messages that reach us are as follows. Yes, the TONK is set and allocated and sex workers are explicitly mentioned. The industry is very happy about that. But one of the practical challenges for this group is that things are a priori so bad and unclear that it is very difficult to meet the conditions. One of the conditions is that the TONK can only be used for identifiable residential expenses: mortgage or rent. Then there are still a lot of burdens on those sex workers who may not be covered by this regulation. Every time we get into a vicious circle of good intentions, we also make every effort to get it right and the practice in which it doesn't seem to work. I heard the minister say "retrospectively." We hear from local authorities that from March onwards they will have the opportunity to help sex workers in this way. We are now a few months further away, but we simply cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u209	Mrs Simons is right. It has been a huge search for how we can help this group. It is often about people who are not employees, who are not employed, who have no or few fixed charges, so they are not eligible for the TVL, and who are not eligible for the Tozo, because they are not selfemployed but are engaged on a separate legal basis. This was one of the arguments to look for the TONK. We saw more of these examples that we thought we couldn't help. The TONK is only designed by municipalities. There are differences between municipalities. That is also wise, because Amsterdam is a different municipality than Delfzijl. The housing market is very different there. So we thought it wise to apply customization and allow for differences. If you had a generic arrangement, you'd have a lot of responsibility again. We don't want that. We want to be able to help people quickly. It is particularly true for sex workers that they always have the possibility of receiving a normal benefit. That is from March, but the TONK will apply retroactively until 1 January. So that is the distinction between the arrangements, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u210	In view of the danger that we may once again sit back and say something about the intention of the regulations and how they work in practice, I would ask the Minister to insist on strong enthusiasm with local authorities when it comes to compensating this group, particularly with regard to retroactivity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u211	I will bring that to the attention of the municipalities in particular. The same applies to the taxi drivers, whom Mr Van Baarle asked for attention, and also to Mr Aartsen, as I just understood. That's exactly what I'm doing. I'll give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u213	I am very pleased that the Minister is also making two promises, namely the commitment that on 1 July the date on which the Court will be reviewed and the commitment that he will continue to encourage municipalities to deal generously with the TONK. I would like to draw attention once again to the need for this. Yesterday we received another message from an entrepreneur from one of the major cities. That entrepreneur gets €125. We in this Chamber have said that we are going to apply this TONK generously. The budget has doubled. We are very grateful to the Minister for that. But it is very nice if the minister keeps calling on those municipalities to actually do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u214	Yes, I'd like to ask you to give me the name of that congregation offline. I'll be able to do something more targeted. It does not necessarily have to be done in the plenary, because that is not proper. But if that's what you want to do, I'd love to. Then I have a few more questions about the Tozo. Mr Teun van Dijck asked about the 2% interest rate on the Tozo scheme. Indeed, that is just the working capital loan that is subject to remuneration. Of course 2% is already very low. It is actually similar to the bridging loan at Qredits and the KKC, where interest rates are also between 2% and 4%. So that's not disproportionate. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA asked about the border entrepreneurs. I have sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber on this subject, including all kinds of dilemmas. In the end, the cabinet comes to the decision not to impose a separate arrangement. Entrepreneurs who undertake business in the Netherlands but live outside the Netherlands will have access to the TVL and the loan for working capital, especially in Belgium and Germany. The TVL arrangements and the loan are therefore open. If people really want to use the assistance, they should do so in the country of residence. Again, I've mapped out several variants and had them searched. I've sent the Chamber a comprehensive letter on that. We can't make it any more specific. Then it becomes really unfocused and then it becomes very difficult to implement. Then the question about the partner income test in the Tozo. That question comes back regularly. In other debates, too, I have explained a number of times why we chose to do so in the cabinet. Indeed, I have already explained why we have developed the TONK instead of the partner income test, which focuses on dgas,zzp'ers and people with flexible contracts. I am not going to repeat those arguments, because we have discussed them extensively. Mrs Van der Plas asked about equal treatment by municipalities in the Tozo. The rules for the Tozo have been laid down nationwide. That's different from the TONK. The Tozo has been captured nationwide. The conditions therefore do not differ. The municipalities have to justify themselves in a uniform manner. So that's what they do at my ministry. There's been handouts. I have even called on auditors to be generous on this point too in the field of audit reports in municipalities. However, there may be differences in the implementation by municipalities. It may be that one municipality is stricter than the other. For example, a municipality may also have a separate regulation, a local assistance regulation. Of course, that has everything to do with decentralisation. The responsibility for this has been invested with the municipalities. But the rules for the Tozo himself are uniform.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u215	That did not come out quite well in my speech, but I was referring to abuse and improper use of the Tozo regime. Its implementation lies with the municipalities. Of that, I wonder how much randomness there is. For example, there is a municipality that does not recover from students who have study funding. Is that in a different congregation than usual? That's what I meant, but I wasn't entirely clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u216	Those differences can be there. The municipalities have the freedom to implement their own policies. We know there are differences. This also fits in with the division of responsibility between the government and the municipalities. One alderman is just stricter than the other. It is really up to the local council, to local democracy, to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u217	Then I have a supplementary question. Are there directives, for example? Are directives being issued to local authorities, so that there is at least equal monks, equal hoods? Of course, the municipalities can decide how they do it, but I would find it unfair if there are really big differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u218	To avoid this point as much as possible, a number of hand-outs have been prepared, including with Divosa, the organisation of social services in the Netherlands. We have made a number of example letters, just to try to achieve this. We have made it available to the 350 municipalities. Still, it remains a responsibility of the alderman to implement it. There are differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u219	Your last question, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u220	My last question. Does the minister or the ministry then get signals that one municipality is very strict and the other perhaps less strict? Or is it just giving the hand-off and the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u221	I haven't heard that these signals have reached the Ministry, but I can do some checking. I know there are differences, but I haven't heard the signals. If there are, it is up to the local council to debate it. It happens all the time. I know that there have been regular debates on the TONK on questions of how high the percentage is, what fees there are and that kind of thing. But I'd like to check this out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u222	I think it is understandable, but I regret that the Minister says here: I am not going to repeat myself when it comes to the partner test. In my previous interruption, the Minister said: if there is no other way, for example, a sex worker can apply for assistance. But with all the new arrangements, we're getting to the partner test. Applying for assistance is not so easy. Let's say you have a place of sale. You'll already have a problem. When applying for schemes, the partner test is added. Once again, in the case of sex workers, we are creating a dangerous dependence and also a great unfairness. I would ask the Minister to reconsider the partner test, if only as long as the support measures are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u223	Here, too, dilemmas emerge. For example, think about the discussion about what happens if you do not apply the partner income test generically. Then you also get the discussion that anyone with a well-earned partner or a partner with a lot of power can apply for a Tozo. That has been a dilemma, because we do not do that in the welfare or participation law. It does include the partner test. A person who, in a manner of speaking, receives the assistance by means of a temporary contract would then be treated differently from someone who was first a self-employed person and influxes the assistance. I find that difficult to explain and difficult to justify. That's one. The second point. Because we see that people can fall between shores and ships, regardless of whether they had a contract of employment, were self-employed or were a managing director-major shareholder, we just invented the TONK. We have designed it to supplement partner income if, for example, it is very low or not enough to pay the mortgage or rent. That's what we've been looking for. We find them fairer because it is applicable to all groups. Now it is even more complicated for sex workers, because they are often not azzp'er and therefore they cannot qualify for the Tozo. Since they are not a selfemployed person, they must automatically call on the welfare allowance. That's a circle. I understand it's frustrating and complicated. Again, I really understand. That is why we have invented the TONK, precisely to give the municipalities room to compensate these groups generously. That didn't always go well. We're holding the finger on the wrist. We're moving on. Things are really moving in the right direction now. In recent weeks we have seen in many municipalities all kinds of generous arrangements and I continue to encourage them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u224	I am going to try to hear from the Minister once again very directly that, at least as long as the aid measures apply to this particular group, there can be coulance in relation to the partner test. As the minister said, we're gonna be in a circle. I'd love it if we could break that circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u225	Then a clear answer: I'm not gonna drop the partner test. That is not the intention of the cabinet. I'll get to the other block, the last block. Mr Hoekstra may then reply. I'm trying to do staccato. The work warranty. How's the work warranty coming? It's actually going really well. I was in a big Webex meeting two weeks ago with the G40 aldermen and with the UWV. I heard a lot of very good stories there about co-operation between municipal social services and the UWV to help people out of benefits to a job, or to prevent them from getting into benefits. I'm very happy about that. However, I have asked those municipalities to send me the good examples so that I can inform your Chamber of the progress that has been made. I'm pretty positive about that. I think it is a good investment, also for people who, so to speak, are helped from one sector to another. For example, because there are always shortages in healthcare, people who have been laid off in another sector can quickly be transferred to health care. It really works. I'm going to gather the examples and I'll inform the Chamber. I do depend on the good examples from practice. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked about the social security system. We said we'd keep our finger on the wrist there. Last year we made EUR 140 million available for wage costs in the SW. There are no signals coming to us, of course, we are in regular contact with the sw-firms that there would be shortages or that extra money would be needed. Those signals are not known to me and if they are, I call for them to be made known to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u226	Through Cedris I have learned that there really is a problem this year and that it was expected that the cabinet would take the initiative to look at what is needed this year in spring. Look, if we don't have to, we shouldn't, but I'm asking this because of the specific situation of the sw, which was actually recognised by the cabinet last year. Money was also made available to them at the time. From the dome organization I hear that there is a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u227	Following the Bruins/Palland motion and the Peters/Jasper van Dijk motion, we regularly monitor this and compare the turnover of the sw companies with the turnover for corona. There are no signs that there would be real bottlenecks there, but if you do have those signals, I ask you to pass them on to me. We have always said that we are holding our finger on the wrist here. I also regularly speak to the foreman of Cedris. I have just lost his name and then I can also present it to him. Then the SP Group's request for a one-off payment in the assistance. The request has indeed been made by the trade union movement in our consultation with the social partners. We have said that we do not, because we do not think that a generic allocation of an increase in assistance is appropriate or necessary. If there are real bottlenecks, there is special assistance, but there is no reason for a generic increase in assistance. Mrs Maatoug asked if the WW premium for fixed contracts could go to zero for the BIK. The Labour Market Act balances a fixed difference between fixed and flex of 5 percentage points. If you want this, you have to change the law. By the way, if things are as we intend to do now, the premium for the rest of 2021 will be 0.38% from August onwards. That's almost zero. But I would like to stick to that 5%, otherwise you will have another discussion with sectors that, for example, have a lot of seasonal work. Then that discussion will come back, too. So I'd like to hold on to that five percentage points difference. I understand, moreover, that a social agreement has been presented today. I don't know what it says about that point, but I'm going to read it tonight. Mr Grinwis had a question about the development of the debt fund. The guarantee fund is available by mid 2021. Before the summer, your Chamber will be informed about its progress. I don't like Mr Grinwis anymore, but I'm sure he's listening. That was indeed a request from the Christian Union last year for budgetary treatment. Mr Dassen asked a number of questions about youth unemployment and youth. That is a separate box in the letter we sent about what we are doing to strengthen the position of young people, not only on the labour market but also on a wider scale, when it comes to psychosocial issues. That is also what we have earmarked money for. We can see that young people have hit the hardest at the start of the corona crisis, where jobs have been lost the most. We see that they are returning very quickly now that the restrictions are lifted. At the request of Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks, who had a motion on the opening up of reintegration tools and activities for young people under 27, we extended those instruments until the end of the year, so as to be able to help this group of young people if they still remain on benefit. But my hopeful optimism is that it's really moving in the right direction very quickly. Fortunately, unemployment is already low. Now all kinds of sectors are opening up where a lot of young people traditionally work. Think of the catering industry, for example. That's just good news, I guess. Mrs Simons asked whether we could support organisations working in vulnerable neighbourhoods. From the intensification approach poverty and debt is used to reach people with money worries, partly as a result of the corona crisis. That is what is happening from the point of view of poverty policy. That's what I'm responsible for these days. That was the Secretary of State at first, but he left. This works with locally organised organisations, such as Social Work Netherlands, Leergeld and the Alliance Volunteer Debt Aid. There is therefore attention to it and there is also money for it in the poverty approach. The last question was from Mr Amhaouch, about how it seems that the staff shortage is going to increase again. Let's be honest, that's good news, but it's also special to see. I spoke to a catering entrepreneur this week who said: in the meantime, it becomes difficult for me to find good staff. I wasn't expecting that six months ago, I'm telling you honestly. But that does mean that we have to continue with NL learning through, with Life Lang Developing and helping people from a shrinking sector to a sector where there are still vacancies. That only strengthens me in that approach. I also think that the social partners in the agreement they have presented today have included a passage on work-to-work development and life-long development, but I haven't read that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u228	Thank you. A final question from Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u229	Let me get this straight. I understand the Minister's answer, but I wonder if the Minister has understood me correctly. I was talking about self-organisations, migrant self-organisations, so organisations that do not automatically use these facilities and sometimes do not receive any subsidies at all, because they organise themselves. The conditions surrounding corona have made it more difficult. I am actually very curious to see where they can go and whether they can count on the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u230	I'll get back to you in the second term. I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u232	Oh, I thought that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u233	We're almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u234	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u235	I'll cut it short this time, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I missed it, but I had asked a question about young people and the cost sharing standard, given the restructuring of the economy. There is a limitation for young people to offer themselves on the labour market, because they do not have a place to live. It would be wise to allow municipalities until the end of the year to terminate that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u236	Two answers. The first thing we have done for under 27 is to go through the Smeulders package, so to speak, until the end of the year. About the cost sharing standard itself, I sent an analysis to the Chamber with four variants. Actually, five, but that's the variant we don't do anything about. These four variants are really part of any formation negotiations, I think, because this is about major budgetary implications but also about fundamental differences of opinion in the Chamber on life. As a outgoing minister, I do not feel free to make all kinds of wild proposals about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u237	I fully understand that, and that is why I did not talk about a structural solution, but about specific recovery. We are now seeing an increase in the number of young people in assistance. We get a lot of messages from people who want to present themselves in a new sector. What happens then? They say I can't find a house right now, so I'm not taking the job because of the paycheck. So this is at the expense of recovery. I would also like to refer to the CPB analysis and the letter that says that we want to move towards economic restructuring, which is an objective that we share. There are already individual derogations, but in the context of recovery, I am now in favour of a generic exception because we see that young people and masse are entering assistance. It is therefore a very targeted measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u238	I understand part of the argument. On the other hand, we are now putting an enormous amount of effort into helping people who receive assistance, showing good examples and good results and reducing unemployment and increasing employment within that group. Then you come to another discussion about the cost-sharing standard. I really don't think that's a crisis measure. This has been the subject of a fundamental discussion in your Chamber for years. That's why I made that analysis with those four basic variants. I really want to involve this in the formation and I do not want to add this as a temporary measure to the crisis package. This is also complicated for the implementation and the long-term effects. So this is not in the package and I'm not going to make it part of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u239	I fully understand the normative considerations and I leave them to the Minister. But here's the thing. There are young people who say: I feel like going to work. They are re-integrated with money and helped in the sense of: you have those talents, get to work in that sector. They'll get an offer, but they can't take it now because they're out on the street. That's not a lot of people. That's very targeted. I'm not gonna lead the way either, and we're gonna do that other structural discussion somewhere else. But if we think it is so important that people go to work, why do we make this possible in the context of recovery, very focused within the implementation, because I do not hear any implementing problems until the end of the year? And municipalities can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u240	Very far behind in my head is something of a customization option, but I'm going to find out for the second term. I thought we'd already talked about it. However, it is now 'clock and clapping' for me, so I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u241	Fine. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Then we have the contribution of the Minister of Finance. I'm suspending the sitting for a single moment so we can stretch our legs briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u242	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u243	Madam President, thank you very much. May I also begin by complimenting you for the excellent and very personal maiden speeches? My impression is that all three members who have made a maiden speech have already left the building. Oh, no, Mr. De Jong is coming back in. The ideal of that is that you can do it without interruptions. I do remember my maiden speech in the First Chamber that in the second term the members present took ample revenge for that. I do not wish the three Members to do that. I myself liked the ice creams and Rotterdam; I think we all have that on our retina. I would like to say to Mrs Maatoug that we very much miss her at the Ministry of Finance and that I know from the exchange of views with Mr Snels that it is very dangerous for people to leave the mother ship and then join the opposition to take the measure of the Minister of Finance. Furthermore, I look forward to the exchange of views. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something about taxation, everything that has to do with the budgetary side of the matter, the phasing-out, and for whom it is intended. We were asked about the stopping strategy, and I will not repeat what my colleagues Mr Blok and Mr Koolmees have already said. Then there are a few other things in the category. I'll start with the tax measures. Part of the aid and recovery package is the extension of tax measures. At the stage in which we have now arrived, you can argue that it is actually more about recovery than just about aid, especially when you look at how long we are going through the measures. The Tax Administration pursues a generous policy of postponing taxation. With this we support entrepreneurs who have come into payment problems because of corona. I think it is very important, as is the case with all the schemes, to provide this support. At the same time, this is always the search for a solution, and I also think it is important that late payments by entrepreneurs do not go beyond what is necessary. I understand Mr Aartsen's question very well and will say more about why there really is something to say about ending the aid as of 1 July, which is without prejudice to the fact that in a year's time it will have to start to pay back the debts as they have been built up. Last year, after a very deep dip, a huge recovery occurred. What surprised us positively is how many entrepreneurs then went to pay back tax debts as the weather. That's also important to mark. At some point, the tax debt was 36 billion and it fell to 16 billion. So a lot of that 20 billion was repaid during that period. The expectation is, but that too is surrounded by great uncertainty, that in the end more than 90% of the outstanding debt will be repaid. Starting to pay off the debt as it arose will be postponed from 1 October 2021 to 1 October 2022. It is important to emphasise that. This is a year longer breathing. We also extend the three-year period to five years. These are much longer deadlines than usual. Anyway, the whole package is exceptional when you look at everything we're doing. We also said this at the press conference. You'd almost forget when you see that we've already had so many debates on support measures. It's for very good reasons, but it's exceptional what we did and what we do. And then we keep the recovery level at that low level for a much longer period than usual. Mr Van Dijk had asked another question about this and I will answer it in a moment. Mr Grinwis asked whether tax debts could be thought of in the same way as for student debts, for example, in terms of carrying or absolving. We seek targeted solutions together with private creditors. Following the letter and the wider communication of the Secretary of State for Finance, it has become clear that he will also be with those entrepreneurs with whom it remains a real problem. That is quite a complicated discussion, by the way. You want to do it all together, but it must also be fair to the people who have paid taxes. The feasibility is another problem. But he's gonna look into that, as previously announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u244	There will be a question from Mr Grinwis. It's about this, I think. It is also his final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u245	Well, well, well, well. It's my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u246	That's a setback for me, Mr. Chairman, but I'll try to reconcile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u247	Indeed, I read that passage on page 30 about that letter of support in particular. It's about structuring with private parties. Should it be necessary, then this restructuring could mean a waiver of the tax debt, provided that it is done in good consultation and in cooperation with private parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u248	It's important to really start at the front. The main rule was that the tax debts must be repaid. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it should remain so. My observation is that this has also come out very clearly in the previous debates we have had here. It also emerged in the informal conversations conducted by Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Koolmees with all the parliamentary groups. Why? Because it's about taxpayers' money. It is about money that Dutch people have earned with hard work. It is also true that a lot of entrepreneurs, such as the woegenda, have paid for that money. So the main rule is: you have to pay back. The Secretary of State is going to look very specifically at that, we hope and expect, very small group that is in danger of getting into such big trouble that bankruptcy is the alternative. Then you have as creditor, being the government, or... the Tax Administration, but also as a private creditor the choice: picking out a relatively empty, and sometimes completely empty, property or agreements and see if you can do something for the entrepreneur in that way. In that context, he starts that conversation. I say it with such caution, because I really want to maintain that main rule. It's just reasonable and honest. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck asked about the recovery interest rate. It makes perfect sense what he said. It's 0.01% now. I think it's really wise that we keep it very low for a while. We build it towards 2024 gradually back to the 4% it was. In 2024, hopefully we will be in a completely different situation again. Mr Aartsen asked if you could not even look at tax delays until 1 October. We're really puzzled, and I can see why he's asking. However, I believe that with the package we are putting in place, we are doing something that is right for the concerns of entrepreneurs. So this is about the five years and the repayment of the debt, as it arose, from 1 October next year. What are you gonna pay for in a minute? If you were to make a profit again, in practice you would pay mostly VAT and payroll tax on what you then make of sales. Is it reasonable to start with that? I think so, precisely because you will see that a lot of entrepreneurs will otherwise only get a bigger debt mountain. So you're going to start over step by step, as far as you make sales, of course. It's important to highlight that. But with the bulk, the misery you've built up and that's been in your dragnet since the last few months, you don't have to start in a month. I think that's reasonable. What entrepreneurs were most concerned with was the length of the period. You'll see that most of it pays back in three years. Those who can't repay it will have a much more existential problem. I think it's a lot less in the question of whether you can keep up with the daily load that you're getting back on your pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u249	The point made by the cabinet about the delay to five years and only to pay back from 1 October 2022 makes sense. However, this particularly affects the solvency of many companies. But I'm concerned about the liquidity of companies if they have to pay regular taxes again from 1 July, when you're not open as you're used to. If you get the payroll tax because you employ people while you're waiting for a late payout from the NOW, you're in trouble. The same applies to all kinds of other taxes. We're almost there now, we're almost there. Isn't it wise to stick to it for another three months? In my view, that is something that can be looked at and does not involve insurmountable risks, I would say. Let us do that, because that saves that last group of people a lot of liquidity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u250	It's a puzzle. I'm quite sensitive to all kinds of arguments. At the Ministry, the Secretary of State and I tried to weigh up all those arguments. I would particularly like to try to convince Mr Doctors, along the way of the content, of why there is really something to be said for this. Why? See last week's press conference. It has to go crazy if we do not take step four and step five, take the whole open plan before 1 July. We are going into a completely different phase in the coming month, which is certainly my expectation, especially after the weekend. That will certainly apply to the catering industry, fortunately. This already applies to the retail sector to a considerable extent. And I suspect, also listening to economists and De Nederlandsche Bank, that the tens of billions in our joint savings fund will soon find their way to the economy. That is why we say to those who are open and turnover, and who no longer make use of these schemes: now get back to normal rhythm. Again, that's independent of the debt you've built. Considering everything, I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u251	Macroeconomically, the Minister for Finance is, of course, right. But you can also be a landlord of cradle fences, with four or five people employed for whom you have to pay payroll taxes, and depend on fairs. It is not the case that on 2 July fairs are organized all over the Netherlands. If you have a wedding location, the requests will slowly flow back in, but it will not be the case that on July 2nd weddings and parties will take place all over the Netherlands. It's gonna take a while in practice. I am afraid that the blue envelope will fall on the mat just now with this particular group and that liquidity problems will arise there. I simply do not see the risk of postponing this for another three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u252	Apart from the fact that I am going to try to make a small personal contribution to the sectors in terms of both the fairs and the weddings, there is something to be said for, also because you are going through the support package. So for those who are not in the situation that I see will apply to most of the companies as of 1 July, we are going to go through the aid packages. They will therefore be able to use the TVL and the NOW and they will probably do so very massively. There is another argument, which is important to mention. It doesn't help entrepreneurs anymore at some point, especially those who are open again and who aren't using those schemes, but who you do want them to start paying taxes again, to add more debt and push them further ahead. We have tried to find something for that that we consider sensible and balanced. We also discussed whether we should not do it the other way round. Shouldn't you postpone this date for yourself and haven't been very helpful to many companies for three years? We have made a choice on the basis of the arguments as they stand in the letter and which I am trying to repeat here. I honestly think, weighing everything, that this is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u253	There are two other reasons for this. First of all, the aid packages. Theoretically, the Minister of Finance is right. In practice, we know that the aid packages have been delayed in such a way that there are problems with liquidity. The TVL for the second quarter will not be paid until the third quarter. The NOW is also just open for the second quarter, while we are almost out of the second quarter. And I'm not talking about the payments for the third quarter. When will these payments be made? That is simply delayed, leading to liquidity problems. Then there's the debt building. Don't you think the debt's getting any further? I took your own stats. On page 45 we see that since February 2021 there is hardly any debt. In fact, it even ends, it hangs on that 19 billion. So in the last few months, we haven't seen an increase in the amount of debt. So I'm curious to see where the fear comes from that in the last three months an explosion of debt would occur in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u254	No. I don't think "an explosion." But it is precisely as Mr Aartsen rightly says in my direction: it is not just about macro, but also about micro. Of course, that debt pile is the macro story. We have to ask ourselves whether, in that context, this step, which you are very much going through, is reasonable. If you're honest, we're not just pulling through the package, but we're also making a correction to the combination of TVL and NOW. With retroactive effect, therefore, extra money will be made available to companies, again in Q3. The hope is, first of all, of course for the entrepreneurs themselves, that they will no longer have to use it because the economy is going to turn back into a tierelier. Those who tried to book a restaurant for next Saturday ended up on a very long waiting list. Fortunately; that is very good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u255	Your last interruption, Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u256	Sure. But I'm not talking about the restaurant around the corner. I am referring specifically to those cases which are not open from 1 July. If we put the tax on this now, I am afraid that they will find themselves in liquidity problems precisely because of the delayed aid packages. I do not see the risk of sticking to it for another three months, because debt does not increase at macro level. I would like to say to the Minister of Finance that, at micro level, this particular group is still available for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u257	I would like to assure Mr Aartsen that we are also watching this very closely. Our consideration is, especially listening to business organisations, listening to what we collect from the different ministries and looking at the different sectors, that you should also dare to look at specific groups. We think this has been weighed up. We see there, especially because TVL and NOW just keep going, no big problem. But let's agree that I'll ask the IRS to monitor this very closely and see what signals we're getting in the next few weeks. Maybe that's how we can get together. I see a verbal reaction somewhere between a yes and a no. That was my response to Mr Aartsen's question. I think Mr Van Baarle asked a similar question, as did Mrs Van der Plas. I hope that, if not contented, I have at least answered the question. Mr Van Dijck and Mrs Van der Plas asked whether the scheme, which has been extended from three years to five years, could not be extended to ten years. You can argue that you'll be helping more entrepreneurs, but my expectation is that if you don't make it within those three years, and if you think about what has happened in the economy over the last three years and in the three years before, there's probably something more fundamental going on than just corona. Yet we have said: let us sit on the safe side and extend the three years to five years. I'd really like to say something for that. But ten years is a very long time. If you can't make it in five years, if you still have a problem, then there's really something else going on. So I wouldn't be in favour of that. But I would like to promise Mr Van Dijck and Mrs Van der Plas that we will do so anyway, and I am sure the Chamber will ask the next cabinet to monitor how it develops. We can always resume the debate on this, but I do think that you need to clarify at some point. Then the five-year period is reasonable, but it is also generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u258	I hear too often "it's reasonable," "I have a good feeling about it" and "it's plausible," but that's not based on anything. Now it's suddenly: if you can't pay back within three years, you have a fundamental problem. Those companies not only have a tax debt, but they also have a debt to the bank, the bank that has also borrowed 51 billion in corona time, they are lagging behind the landlords, the suppliers and the breweries, they have borrowed from family, and they have used up their pension. Some companies have had zero sales for a year, while all the fixed charges and so on have gone through. They have tons of debt sometimes. And so you have to pay back those tons from the future profits. You're as a company that normally runs operational already happy if you have all your expenses, your staff, your rent, you name it... What makes a little normal, well-functioning company average profit? Maybe that's 10% for taxes. Is that a profit? From that profit, the overdue debt must be paid to the Tax Administration, to the landlord, you name it. I find it rather pretentious to say here: if you can't repay it within three years, then... The cost of a year should therefore be able to cough up from the profit within three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u260	That's too much to ask. That's why I'm saying just make it ten years. If I had a company with so much debt, it was indeed interesting to pull the plug, to make a start with a new e.g. and to get rid of all debt. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I don't want companies calculated to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u261	I really agree with Mr Van Dijck. I'm just saying, looking at the content. I say to him and to Mrs van der Plas that in any case I think it wise to keep my finger on the wrist in all these cases. But the main movement is a sensible one, especially when you look at the perspective that 20 billion of that 36 billion has been repaid in a really short period of time. This is precisely the case with the expectation that more than 90% of companies can simply repay it. In doing so, we are not simply basing ourselves on what I personally happen to think. That is precisely because we have also said that the Secretary of State is going to sit down with private parties for those companies that would inevitably find themselves in existential problems. You'll have a very wide range of measures, a safety net, and a three-year extension to five years. My guess is that's really wise. It is also generous to go from three years to five years. Mr Van Dijck is an expert in this field. That's a very long time, looking at how the Tax Administration usually deals with this kind of thing. We'll stick to that. We'll want to keep an eye on things in the years to come. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u262	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u263	I have another question from Mr Eerdmans. He asked: do we have a view of sectors where debt is high and is there a surge of bankruptcy coming? That's a very fair question. I was in contact with banks about what they saw in their own portfolio about nine months ago. At that time, they were concerned that they would see a relatively large wave of bankruptcy around this time. Why? Then we thought that maybe after one or one and a half quarters we would be done with corona. That phase has, of course, taken much longer and actually continues to this day. The number of bankruptcies in the Netherlands is exceptionally low. I believe we haven't had so few bankruptcies in 30 years. So you're going to get something of a correction, no matter how uncomfortable and personal disaster that is often for entrepreneurs. I'm guessing you're gonna see something of a catch-up effect. At the same time, I think that most of the sectors, especially those that have suffered under corona, for example the cafés, have been very clearly helped with the support and can, hopefully, be opened up again in the near future. So it's hard to make a very specific prediction. We are, of course, also taking many of the fiscal measures to prevent unnecessary bankruptcies. Mrs. Van der Plas asked if you should cancel tax debts. I have just given a brief answer to that. We have chosen this recipe, weighing everything up. That too is balanced and reasonable, especially towards those who have repaid it, and also towards taxpayers. Of course, there is also the argument that has been repeatedly mentioned by the Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank: cabinet, think about the long-term viability of the economy, normal conditions of competition, and the laws of economic gravity, as I have mentioned before. Mrs Maatoug asked if we should extend the hour criterion. We have of course looked at this too, but the assessment of the Secretary of State and the Ministry is as follows. On the contrary, the vast majority of entrepreneurs have started to work for a company again. In addition, the hours criterion also includes the work carried out by an entrepreneur in the context of a reopening. We think, quite frankly, that it has little added value for entrepreneurs to do something extra there. So we have thought of that: we should not want to continue, because it has little added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u264	We certainly do not want things that have no added value. But we have received quite a lot of reports from the specific self-employed in the cultural sector. The next theater show is later, because you have to put it on now and you still have to rehearse. Given the logic of extending emergency aid until 30 September, it would be nice for that group to continue to do so, because there are self-employed people who need it and need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u265	I very much agree with the importance of the cultural sector. It has great added value for all of us. That is why we are not only going through the entire support package, but we have made Mrs Maatoug's support package as it stands, specifically extra money, national but also through the municipalities, available for the cultural sector. If you add all that together and then it is true that your reopening-like work, which of course can also apply to the arts and culture sector, can still count on the hour criterion, then you have, I think, a very well-preservable package. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have all had the questions in the block about taxation. Then I come to the second chapter, on budgetary policy, but also on: what are we seeing and what are you going to do? The members of the Court have seen that the estimated cost of the measures presented in the letter of the Chamber is always surrounded by uncertainty, which amounts to around EUR 6 billion. I do not need to explain to anyone how incredibly much money that is and how exceptionally that total amount of nearly 80 billion is on which the emergency measures come out. We are borrowing extra money for this, but it is a fact that I must stress this once again, both in the historical and international perspective, which is unprecedented, for good reasons. We are in the fortunate situation that we can afford this, also through the policies of previous Cabinets and by what Dutch people have built up with hard work, especially with our triple A rating. Mr Dassen asked: is the bill not for the next generation? It's a fair question. It is also right that we should be concerned about this with each other. My own estimate is that the best way to make that money back is to ensure economic growth. You can see in the Netherlands, if things go well with the global economy and with the Dutch economy, that you can spend both very heavily and reduce the burden and put public finances in order, all at the same time. This has something to do with the volatile economy that we have, but in good times think about how we did it in 2018 and 2019, and it turned out we could do it all. So economic growth is by far the best recipe. But Mr Dassen is of course right. Once the powder fumes are lifted, we've added about 15% of GDP debt. You're gonna have to pay that back sometime. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maatoug asked: what is the stop strategy? A number of comments on this, also in line with what the others have said. The reason for the aid measures are, of course, the contact restrictions. The interventions that we have made as a cabinet have also been referred to by some speakers; colleagues from the cabinet have also referred to this crisis as a different one. That makes sense now, where in the financial and economic crisis this was not really justifiable. If all these measures are to be removed, then it is very obvious that we should stop doing so again. We're not going to make a binding statement about that now, but we think and we hope you'll really get rid of it in the fourth quarter. Is it not possible, then, that there is still a need for specific sectors? I can't rule that out. I sincerely hope not, first and foremost for all the people who work there, but I am not sure. Some problems could persist in certain branches of sport. Mr Aartsen has just mentioned a few examples. That is also precisely described in the letter. The main route of the cabinet is to keep going. You also need to think about a negative scenario. Think, for example, of a mutant who may once again be able to escape the vaccine, which hopefully we all had by then. At the same time, we also indicated in the letter that if things are going even faster and you can get rid of these measures much sooner, then as a cabinet you will have to relate to them again. For example, you have to think about the wrong incentives, the improper use and the advances paid. That is why we have also indicated in the letter that we will keep our finger on the pulse this month. If we have any thoughts on this in any direction, we will always discuss it in close consultation with the Chamber, given the missionary status of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a completely different subject. That has not been asked, but I would nevertheless like to give it to Mr Van Kent. These are always dubious gifts, but it is important to wash this with the Chamber once and especially with the SP fraction. On 12 March 2020, Mr Alkaya asked what incentive policy the cabinet had in mind in that calendar year. I just mentioned the amount of 80 billion. Not all of that was taken up in 2020, and it is still going on this year, but I think that if I had given him a picture of what the cabinet would have been up to, he might have said that even for the SP it was a little too gritty. It has not often occurred that the cabinet has carried out a motion so generously and without so little encouragement. As far as the cabinet is concerned, this motion has therefore been carried out generously. I hope that Mr Alkaya will be able to agree with that, or else I will certainly hear him in one of the debates. Mr. Chairman. One final piece, about the question of how to deal with these different groups of companies in relation to what you can expect from those companies. I think Mrs Maatoug asked for that, but there were a few more speakers. I believe that Mr Eerdmans and Mr Amhaouch asked for this too. I also felt that Mr Aartsen and Mr Amhaouch were quite right to refer to Auping. It might be good to say something about the different groups you should distinguish as far as I'm concerned. The largest group of companies we've helped hopefully dries that quickly on... wouldn't have made it without that corona support. I really think that support has been entirely justified. I even think that if, in two years' time, you conclude, following some kind of evaluation or survey, that it has been a little too generous, it has been a sensible line as a basic idea. Those companies just made it through this. That's one. Then there is a second group, namely the group of companies that have made more sales and more profits in just one year, despite a dip in a quarter. That group now seems to cover about a fifth, maybe even more. I'd like to say a few more things about that. And then you have a third group. Those are companies that may continue to have trouble but where you can't actually relate that to corona. Then you get a complicated discussion: what exactly was the support package meant for? Because if you had such a safety net as we have now, with TVL and NOW, would have been tense in 2017, 2018 or 2019, then you're sure you would have cost a few billion each quarter. Why? Because there are always companies with which things are less good. I believe that about one third of Dutch companies in a quarter have a dip of more than 20%. So that has nothing to do with corona and that is not what this support package is really for. That is still quite complicated and that also requires reflection from all of us, but that is something we have taken for granted in recent months. I would like to comment on the second group, which was also asked by the members. Again, I found it very right that Aartsen and Amhaouch actually said what Koolmies, Wiebes and I said earlier when we designed that support: only use it if you really need it; don't take advantage of it. It is tax money and it is intended for those who otherwise will not make it. We rigged it real fast. We have also been rolling it through with the idea that that would have great added value, but in the hope and expectation that it would actually land there. Of course, this speed has a downside when it comes to care and the risk of abuse. But I would very much like to join what I heard others say. I would really like to make an appeal, an apple, to all the companies that have done better than usual, who have actually had a great year. The foreman of Auping already indicated: I don't have to pay it back, but now that things are going so well, the support is no longer in accordance with the spirit of the law. We have many more examples of companies that do so and which we do not mention here. I would like all of us very much to see all entrepreneurs follow this example if they actually had an excellent year. Because that money isn't mine or ours as politics. That's just money that the Dutch have earned with hard work. That is very well spent on those companies which have had a disastrous year, but that is not meant for those who have actually had an excellent year. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few other things in the category. There was a question about an explanation of the economic situation in the Caribbean Netherlands; I think it was Mrs Maatoug who asked for it. It is difficult to say anything about the structural situation. It is true that many companies there have also been helped to survive through the solid support package from the government. I suspect that was the case for all three islands, but at least I know that the whole island of Saint Eustatius was vaccinated much earlier than the European part of the Kingdom. That is also very important, because of course it gives people the opportunity to return to the island as a tourist, as a business traveller or in any capacity. So now that these islands are opening up to tourists, the hope is that the economy will attract them again in the coming months. I must add one thing, by the way. That's one thing I have to correct from the letter. That is what I want to do here, and I will do so in writing. The letter by mistake included the extension of the delay to the Caribbean Netherlands until 1 October, while the cabinet's premise remains that the aid package in the Caribbean Netherlands should be subject to a similar approach to that for the European Netherlands. In the Caribbean Netherlands, the postponement of payment for new tax obligations will therefore expire on 1 July. It will appeal to Mr Aartsen that it is at least shared sorrow. I heard one of the members say something, Mr. Chairman. But I didn't see him on the speaker list, so it passed by me. I think it's nice to have a letter to this effect. But I also find it strange to send a letter tomorrow and not to mention it here in the debate. Because that's just a mistake on my part; we didn't put that right in the letter. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked for help from the banks. That is a very fair question. The Secretary of State, and indeed the previous Ministers for Economic Affairs and myself, have had a lot of discussions with the banks. On the one hand, you really want them to help out. They've done a lot of that, too. On the other hand, the last thing you want on top of this crisis is another kind of banking crisis, because we would have pushed them to an unsolid angle. That's what we've been talking about here. But all things considered, they have really played an important role and so banks have also been able to keep credit up to date. I'll just say that as a government, of course, we're going to do a lot more. Of course, we have heard a lot from entrepreneurs themselves: the situation is just worse, we need help and if it does not come from the banks, then it has to come from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u266	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u267	Shall I put two more sentences to it, Mr. Chairman? Maybe I should wait until the interruption and then I can still serve the last piece of my possible answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u268	The last point, of course, was quite right: if it does not come from the banks, then the government has to step in. In the beginning, we had the idea that those banks were really going to do something. They said: we have been the cause of the previous crisis and we are now going to be the solution, or part of the solution, of this crisis. All this seemed to be going very fast; repayments and interest rates were postponed. But yes, when it turned out that you also had to report your payment powerlessness and that you got a BKR registration; I asked your predecessors and other rulers about it before. In the end, that became very difficult, because it didn't give you a follow-up loan or any new loans. That contact between the government and the bank didn't seem to exist. The bank eventually simply withdrew its aid and the government then did nothing. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u269	I am a little more optimistic when I look at what the banking sector has done; see also the recent Financial Stability Review. This is an overview of De Nederlandsche Bank. There you can see that banks' lending to entrepreneurs has actually been maintained. In addition, you can see that what the government did in the first nine months of the 12 months it has also helped very much. And you can see that banks dare to be more risky, because we continue and the guarantee arrangements run. It also makes sense to go through with that, if you just make the sums. Mr Van Haga will recognize that. He also recognizes that this remains a subject of conversation. I would therefore like to assure him that as a cabinet, the Secretary of State and the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself, we will continue to discuss this and inform the Chamber about it, because I know that this is an issue for SMEs in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u270	Of course, I totally agree with this. In the beginning there was a huge liquidity impulse because the banks were a little more generous, but they really pulled that back. I would like to see the government now, for example, come up with a kind of state guarantee on loans that banks can issue. Those banks which, in any case, are really generous in paying very low interest rates can, of course, pay interest rates very low without having to bear all that risk themselves. Because the risks are high and I find that liquidity is not really coming into the market anymore. So could there be some kind of guarantee from the government? I don't know how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u271	I would particularly like to point out what we all have, because it is my impression that that is very helpful. Mr Van Haga rightly points out that very low interest rates are wider in the market, which also offers advantages for entrepreneurs. In fact, that interest rate is so low that I expect to have another debate with your Chamber in the short term on what the cabinet actually thinks of negative interest rates. But that helps entrepreneurs here, because, apart from a little risk premium, the interest rates are totally different than they were ten or twenty years ago. Here's what I'm gonna do. This has really gone the right way with united forces. I also understand that the point of attention remains. But I am very optimistic about the stage we are facing, also in the macro-economic sense. Let me assure Mr Van Haga that I will inform the Chamber in the middle of the summer recess, or else shortly after the summer recess, about how we stand about bank loans, in the light of what has then happened to economic development. Can I make a deal with him like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u272	You're out of interruptions, Mr. Van Haga. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u273	But I will not withdraw the promise, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u274	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u275	For the people who are concerned: there is always a second time limit to come back to it. But I understand the need. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr. Chairman. I have one more thing. I think it was Mr Stoffer, not to be confused with Mr Bishop, who asked about the window. Maybe I should have said it specifically in his direction, but we, in particular the Secretary of State for Finance, are looking at how we are dealing with those who do not belong to those 90%, 92%, 95% of the entrepreneurs who will be able to pay back that money in the near future and who will, this year or next year, belong to that 5%, 3% or no matter how much it will be. That investigation is ongoing. Those conversations are going on. Finance and EZK are of course pulling together in this. I would like to assure Mr Stoffer that we will inform the Chamber about this. I will also ask the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u277	Is the Minister at the end of his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u278	I meant that, but of course that depends a little on the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u279	The question follows on from the comments made by the foreman of the CDA, but also by a CDA member of parliament in the daily newspaper, on the corona tax, the extra tax for companies with which it went very well in the corona time, the extra contribution that can be requested from these companies. Today, an ESC opinion has also been published which states that the common position of employers and employees appears to be: do not increase costs and cut backs during the recovery phase. I am very curious to know what the Minister, the foreman of the CDA, whatever he thinks about it, also in view of the proposal that was discussed today during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u280	Then Mr. Van Kent and I should have a conversation sometime if I'm not in "K." Of course, it would be a nice thing for me to mess with the CDA-election programme in one movement and Mr Koolmees and Mr Blok, but that would not be entirely neat either. As a member of the cabinet, I can say that we are obviously considering what next year's budget should look like. We are, of course, doing so in a close dialogue with the Chamber, even when it comes to the burden side of the budget. I have understood the speaker from the CDA Group in such a way that he is considering a second-term motion. On behalf of the cabinet, I will give them a very fine judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u281	I was a little worried it was gonna go this way, with a "patterful" answer. I would like to put the question in this way: what does the Minister of Finance think of the expression, the common position of employers and employees, that there should be no increase in the burden during the recovery period? Does the Minister of Finance think that's wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u282	I'm gonna say something about those hats anyway. Imagine the reverse style figure, that I would do it, that I couldn't resist the temptation, Oscar Wilde thought: the only way to resist temptation is to yield to it. Then I'll have a breezy Aartsen at the microphone right here, and a couple of others. 'Cause they're gonna say to me, "Who are you standing here?" I understand that this is not a good time for Mr Van Kent in this case, but I believe that this is really something that can be defended by state law. A year ago, as Minister of Finance, I always said that in the very short term burdens were not obvious and that in the cabinet you had to consider more broadly how to balance macroeconomic growth at some point. That is really very important for all these companies. That is what we are getting in the coming months, at least to an important degree, is my assessment. You also have to weigh how to do something that is sensible for public finances in the long term. We'll have to lay an egg on that as a cabinet. If we weren't caught up with a formation, we'd do that at the end of Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u283	You are now also through your interruptions, and I believe that the Minister of Finance was ready as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u284	I was finished and I have the impression that I have made Mr Van Kent very happy, so I think I can also end this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u285	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I think so, because I've heard a lot about motions. Everyone has 1 minute 20 seconds to submit all motions or ask any questions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Ministers for their detailed reply. We've been talking about Booking for a long time, and I think we all think it's immoral, both from the Chamber, the political parties and from the Cabinet. And yet I think the cabinet is a little too reluctant. Let me refer you to a discussion about 11 years ago. Then we had the banking crises, the financial crisis. Then we also had bankers who were going to enrich themselves with bonuses. The then Minister Wouter Bos called these bankers here in his office in The Hague. In my opinion, that is the way that fits, if injustice is felt in society, that you are also making that step. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the distribution of a bonus to Booking.com's top managers, while receiving state aid, is immoral and dishonorable and not in the spirit of the NOW scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to recover this state aid and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u287	The next motion is about minures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employers, while receiving State aid for workers' wages, require workers to make up for their minures free of charge later in the year;]] [[considers that this is undesirable and also goes against the spirit of the NOW regime;]] [[calls on the Government to appeal to employers to this undesirable behaviour and to inform them that they should not charge employees' minutes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Weyenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u289	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too am pleased that I was able to sign the motion with Mrs Simons on the partner test in the Tozo. On the issue of welfare recipients who have higher costs in connection with the corona situation, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas beneficiaries of assistance have been in financial difficulties due to additional costs in the past corona year for matters such as heating, electricity and the Internet, costs for home education, mouth caps, disinfection gel and the closing of recycling shops;]] [[calls on the Government to grant a one-off benefit to all welfare recipients of at least €150 for single persons, €250 for cohabitants and €100 for children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u291	Dan Booking.com. However, I find it sad to note that the Minister does not go much further than swearing and saying that he thinks it is a position that cannot be defended, that he is engaging in talks and would like to confess that those talks will take place with Booking, but he does not want to tell the Chamber when we are going to be informed about... etc. In short, the Chamber would very much like to make a strong and clear statement, which reads as follows. This motion may be filed on behalf of 141 MPs represented by the parties VVD, GroenLinks, D66, ChristenUnion, Party of Labour, CDA, JA21, BBB, BET1, Volt, DENK, PVV and Party for Animals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that Booking.com has mishandled the NOW aid;]] [[points out that Booking.com has to repay at least the amount of bonuses paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Kent, Aartsen, Maatoug, Romke de Jong, Grinwis, Gijs van Dijk, Amhaouch, Eerdmans, Van der Plas, Simons, Dassen, Van Baarle, Tony van Dijck, Stoffer and Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u292	Thank you. I thank the Cabinet for the exchange of views and the reply. We naturally support the package. On one part, we would like to see a change, namely the extension of the deferred payment of taxes. This should be adapted for the European part of the Netherlands to the date for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, namely 1 October 2021. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not all entrepreneurs will have full or partial turnover as of 1 July next;]] [[Whereas the absence of the possibility of postponing taxes could seriously jeopardise their liquidity position;]] [[Calls on the Government to extend the possibility of postponing taxation until 1 October 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Aartsen, Van Baarle, Van Kent, Stoffer, Tony van Dijck, Romke de Jong, Amhaouch, Gijs van Dijk, Van Haga, Van der Plas, Grinwis, Simons, Dassen and Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u293	Mr. Chairman. We had a good talk about the one official team for the debts and the refunds. I sincerely believe that we need to deal with this carefully in the coming years. We also need a solid plan for it. I'd like to invite the Cabinet to that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that operators who have applied for corona aid are faced with reimbursements to several public authorities and several decisions;]] [[noting that the implementing organisations have different reimbursement regimes and that it is difficult to link them up regularly;]] [[Whereas the Van Dam and Bosman parliamentary committees of inquiry have made recommendations on implementation issues;]] [[Whereas one separate team of officials with mandate and perseverance can provide a solution for small entrepreneurs who are in trouble;]] [[expresses her opinion that this is the time to put into practice the lessons of the parliamentary committees of inquiry - Van Dam and -Bosman;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up and share with the Chamber a plan for a separate team of officials with mandates for all reimbursements by Princess Day 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you, Mr President. I thought I would be given more speaking time because of my maiden speech, but unfortunately that does not seem to be the case. I shall therefore immediately give my thanks to the cabinet. By means of motions for resolutions, I would like to propose an amendment on two points. The first is about financial support for bookshops. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that the physical bookstore decreased sales by 69% in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the first quarter of 2020;]] [[noting that publishers have delayed many publications in recent months, as books were much less visible due to the closure of shops;]] [[noting that the physical bookstore has a difficult liquidity position and is therefore not sufficiently able to buy new book titles;]] [[Whereas the physical bookstore is of great importance to our literature and our reading environment;]] [[Whereas the financial health of the physical bookstore has a positive effect on the entire chain of the bookstore;]] [[Whereas physical bookshops play an important cultural role locally;]] [[calls on the government to release additional EUR 20 million in the support package for the Dutch Foundation for Literature for a guarantee fund for booksellers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Aartsen, Mr Maatoug, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u295	Mr. Chairman. Then there's another motion on the stopper arrangement. I am also pleased with the response of the cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a major effort is being made to support as many companies as possible through coronapandemic support measures;]] [[Whereas there are nevertheless entrepreneurs who, partly because of the economic impact of the corona pandemic, wish to terminate their business;]] [[Whereas the cost of ending a business in a controlled manner is incurred;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the friendly approach, there are not many other options for a controlled termination of an undertaking;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of setting up a stopper scheme to support entrepreneurs seeking to terminate their business in a controlled manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Romke de Jong and Mr Aartsen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Three motions from my side. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to extend the present aid and recovery package until 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u297	I think this will bring more peace. Since the packages are breathing along, it wouldn't hurt to bring them peace until the end of the year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to set the payment period for outstanding tax debts at 120 months instead of 60 months;]] [[calls on the Government not to step up the recovery interest rate for deferred tax debt but to maintain it at 0.01% throughout the payment period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u298	Again, the less the monthly charges are, the greater the chance of repayment and the less the chance of bankruptcy. I do not understand why the interest rate should be set at 4%, while this finance minister can borrow at negative interest rates. In other words, he doesn't have to earn on the misery of others. Mr. Chairman. Then my final motion. It's about the independent entrepreneurs. For them, I'd like to break a lance anyway. In my view and in the eyes of the PVV, they are disadvantaged. I see "rounding." The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that self-employed entrepreneurs can also benefit from the Tozo scheme without a partner test;]] [[calls on the Government to ease the conditions for the Tozo loan with a longer maturity of 10 years and a lower interest rate of 0.01%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u299	Mr. Chairman. There's a nice support package. I thank the Ministers for answering the questions we have asked. I've always learned that rule is forethought, but I'm sure you know that much better than I do. That is why there are two motions to ensure that we do not stand still after the third quarter. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs have outstanding debts with the Tax Administration, landlords, suppliers and other creditors, and that many entrepreneurs still have reimbursement obligations of corona aid;]] [[Whereas the multitude of debts and creditors can lead to problems and that it helps to repay debts and other liabilities if entrepreneurs have a fixed point of contact as far as possible and, for example, receive fixed protocols to support debt repayment;]] [[calls on the government, together with private and public creditors, to draw up a protocol and make joint agreements with the aim of simplifying and streamlining the debt pay-off by entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u300	I present this with Mr Van Haga. The second motion is in motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tailor-made work is difficult to achieve in the short term, but that tailor-made work is likely to be necessary for specific sectors from the fourth quarter of 2021, as generic support is likely to be no longer effective and effective;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up plans to support sectors that still need them by means of tailor-made measures from the fourth quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u301	Finally, Mr President. There was still a point in my mind about the branch companies. There is a motion on this by Mr Van Haga and myself on 15 April, which we will be voting on next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u303	Mr. Chairman. I see one minute 20 right here. I don't know if that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u304	They're working on it. 1 minute 20 is one third of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u305	Then I have to move very quickly for four motions. Firstly, I would like to thank the cabinet and the ministers for their response and attention to the special cases, the human dimension. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the corona crisis many companies suffered significant turnover losses, but that there are also companies that have made significant overprofits;]] [[Whereas in a fair economy the strongest shoulders bear the most heavy burdens;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore policy variants for the introduction of a temporary solidarity levy for companies that have made additional profits in the corona crisis, while avoiding air and support companies, and informing the Court of Justice of this before 1 August 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fairgrounds are of great traditional and cultural value for the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the corona crisis has put fairground owners to the test;]] [[Whereas fairgrounds are allowed again from 30 June 2021;]] [[Invites the government, through the VNG, to call on municipalities to grant rapid authorisation, bearing in mind the Amhaouch/Palland motion (35669, No. 20), additional pitch space and coulance with the collection of rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Minister of SZW has explored possible solutions for border entrepreneurs who are not eligible for a Tozo benefit in the Netherlands or for a comparable benefit in Belgium or Germany, but conclude that there is no viable and sustainable scheme;]] [[Whereas local German authorities have powers to deal more flexibly with assistance rules in cases of distress;]] [[calls on the government to actively draw the attention of independent entrepreneurs in the border region to this tailor-made space and to remain in talks with Germany, Belgium and the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-293]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Aartsen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-294]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u306	And then there's the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considering the importance of society to minimise the risks of misuse and misuse of schemes, but that administrative burdens should be efficient and proportionate;]] [[noting that the NOW requires an extended third party declaration, while other schemes, such as the TVL less than €125.000, require no or only a simple third party declaration for ornamental cultivation and parts of food horticulture, fixed charges and deferred tax;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the administrative burden of the NOW can be further reduced by aligning it with that of other schemes, for example in situations where a simple third party statement could be sufficient, with proportionate risk management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u308	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. And just for the Members of Parliament, four motions in 1 minute 20 are almost impossible. So the request is to time something better. Less motions can be made. Mrs Maatoug is setting a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u309	Mr. Chairman. If the chairman says so, I'm gonna listen. I feel completely at home in this place where quick talk is appreciated, especially when reading motions. First of all, I am very pleased that I received support from D66, PvdA, Volt, ChristenUnion, BBB, JA21 and DENK for a hearing in this Chamber. I am very pleased with the commitment of the cabinet. I think it is important for the cabinet to have discussions with several companies, but that we will do the same. We shall request that in the committee's work. It's important that we have that conversation collectively in this Chamber. Then my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has made young people more vulnerable and the risk of getting into assistance has increased further for this group;]] [[Whereas young people are increasingly unable to leave the parental home because of the huge housing shortage or, for example, the provision of care;]] [[noting that the cost sharing standard not only leads to distressing situations, where young people become homeless or families have to live in great poverty, but that it can also lead to reduced labour supply among young people, which may hinder post-corona restoration;]] [[noting that aldermen from all kinds of cities and from all kinds of political colors call for the cost-sharing standard to be shifted to 27 years;]] [[Considers that addressing these distressing situations cannot wait for a cabinet formation;]] [[Calls on the Government to terminate the cost sharing standard for people under 27 years of age until the end of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Simons, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Kent and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all three ministers for the clear answer. Thank you also for the clarity on tax debts. Of course the rule is redemption, I repeat Minister Hoekstra, but I also welcome the fact that, together with private parties, restructuring is being carried out, if, for example, the discharge capacity after years of running your business is not in order. After all, we want seaworthy ships to reach the port. I've asked for attention to be paid to distressing cases. We must not only take good care of the 99 but also of the one of the 100 sheep. Therefore, a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas urgent cases require specific attention and discretion from the organisations responsible for implementing the aid measures;]] [[Whereas the Amhaouch c.s. motion (35669, No. 19), it was assumed that a consultative commission had been set up at the RVO in response and that there was such a point of contact at the UWV, but not at the Tax Office;]] [[calls on the government to also pay sufficient attention to the tax authorities for distressing cases, for example by setting up a team of distressing cases with sufficient discretion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u311	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Spacious in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u312	Very nice, Mr Grinwis, thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks to the rulers. We have received real answers to our questions. We support the idea of postponing taxes until 1 October and also the idea of the VVD for a one-stop shop. We also support the moral appeal to Booking.com. We're not going for the CDA's coronal levy. Furthermore, we would like to wish Bas van 't Wout good luck from this place. We also appreciated that he called us in advance for input, as did Mr Koolmees. That is a really good thing and it is also good to underline that. Also a compliment to Minister Blok, because he is standing here so quickly, worked in and all. Appreciation. At the same time, let me give you a warning. Perhaps that is the reason for the debate. We really need to watch out for an overall support operation for certain groups, sectors or even neighbourhoods, regardless of corona. We really shouldn't. I think that's really dangerous. As sympathetic as it sounds, I don't think we should. I also have the impression that vocational K isn't going for that. Finally. Mrs Maatoug spoke of capitalism and its principle. I think it's a very good discussion. The market is the market and the government is the government. We do not think that this should get too mixed up. Minister Koolmees said it might be better for the Square. We are very much in favour of transparent interview reports, but I would be a little more careful to have discussions of this kind. Yet it is useful and good to do here. We look forward to the hearing that GroenLinks has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u314	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u315	Thank you, Mr President. May I thank the rulers for the answer? Along this road, I also wish Mr Van 't Wout a good time on behalf of the DENK Group. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many entrepreneurs have incurred debts due to the corona crisis in order to survive;]] [[noting that the government indicates that it does not have a clear view of debts or liabilities outside of taxes or bank loans;]] [[considers that a good view of corporate debt is important for a good way out of the crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the solvency situation of companies with insufficient visibility and to forward the results to the Chamber prior to the decision on the aid package in the fourth quarter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Baarle and Aartsen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-299]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u316	A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some groups are hit harder by the corona crisis;]] [[noting that figures from the CBS show an increase in the inflow of assistance;]] [[noting that there was a four-fold increase among Dutch people with a migration background than among Dutch people without a migration background;]] [[Whereas reports of discrimination have increased during the corona crisis;]] [[believes that the corona crisis should prevent existing inequalities from being increased;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to ensure that inequalities in the labour market between Dutch people with and without a migration background are not increased by the corona crisis, by giving specific attention to this within temporary policies, such as the youth position package or the supplementary social package, and by targeting existing measures to this end, such as the Further Integration Programme on the Labour Market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u317	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the turnover loss for the TVL of large companies is determined at group level;]] [[calls on the Government to determine the turnover loss per individual e.g. and to provide the TVL on that basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the majority of DGAs are still not entitled to the NOW scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the DGAs might be eligible for the NOW or a similar scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Horeca Stock and Adjustments (HVA) applies only to catering entrepreneurs and not to catering wholesalers;]] [[calls on the Government to grant the HVA to catering wholesalers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet refuses to support entrepreneurs residing abroad and working in the Netherlands with a Tozo benefit;]] [[Whereas the full House of Representatives instructed the Minister, by motion, to come up with an arrangement or to take measures for border entrepreneurs;]] [[invites the Cabinet to come up with a settlement or to take measures for border entrepreneurs, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-301]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-302]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-303]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u319	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u320	Thank you. You'll be pleased, because I only have one. Except I'm not wearing my glasses, but I'm gonna try anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Booking.com, which is a US parent company with a billion turnover, received 65 million euros in the first round of wage support NOW;]] [[noting that holiday platform Booking.com has paid out, or has already promised to pay out, bonuses in the form of shares to the three top drivers in the future;]] [[noting that these shares represent a value of possibly EUR 28 million;]] [[noting that a majority of the House of Representatives was very displeased with the "abuse" of Dutch taxpayers' money in this way;]] [[noting that the Minister stated in the reply that recovery might cost tens of thousands of jobs;]] [[noting that there are not tens of thousands, but about 5,500 people working at Booking.com in the Netherlands, a large proportion of whom work abroad;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to provide the Chamber with an in-house overview of the possible risks for the Netherlands at a possible departure from Booking.com, including what we as the Netherlands miss on corporate tax, as has been borne on average over the past three fiscal years, and what its consequences are, and to identify the number of employees in the Netherlands and their nationalities;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u322	Thank you. Mr Dassen waives his second term. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in some cases self-employed sex workers are unable to meet the requirements of the Tozo, due to problems related to municipal permits or the lack of a proper SBI code for security reasons when registering the CVK;]] [[Whereas this group has suffered a loss of income since the start of the corona measures;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the measures needed to ensure that all self-employed sex workers can receive income support;]] [[calls on the Government to return to the Chamber before 1 July with a proposal to this effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sex workers working under an opt-in scheme are not entitled to income schemes;]] [[noting that this group has suffered a significant loss of income since the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas this loss of income is still being sustained as work can be avoided for health reasons or as a result of the corona measures still in force;]] [[calls on the Government to open the income schemes to people working under an opt-in scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how this group can be compensated retroactively for their loss of income since the start of the corona measures, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 July,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Tozo partner test ensures that people with a partner are not adequately supported by the income scheme and that their security of existence is at stake;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the partner test from the Tozo scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-306]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-307]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van Kent and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-308]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u324	We are at the second term of office, which is going to give an appreciation of the motions tabled. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term. We've divided the motions among the colleagues. I will advise the motions in my area. But first of all, I owe Mr Grinwis an answer on the Segers motion. I said that the cabinet would return to that in writing; that will be before the summer recess. Then I'll start with the motion in part No. 285 by Mr Aartsen, inviting the Government to draw up and share with the Chamber a plan for a separate team of officials with mandates for all reimbursements by Princess Day 2021. I have indicated that I realise that the multitude of schemes, especially for entrepreneurs who are already struggling, leads to an additional complexity. I am going to investigate what is possible, but I cannot guarantee that the officials concerned can actually have the power of perseverance, also for the reasons I mentioned earlier. These may be schemes covered by another authority, such as municipal schemes. Moreover, you also have to deal with schemes which, by their very nature, are really different, such as taxes and social security contributions. With that remark, I can leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber, because that means that we will come back before Princess Day with a proposal on the possibilities and the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u326	Thank you. The motion in part No. 285 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u327	The motion in part No. 286 by Mr Romke de Jong and many others with him, asking the government to release 20 million in the support package for the Dutch Foundation for Literature for a guarantee fund for booksellers. As I pointed out in the debate, bookshops are also of interest to me, but it is a sector which has already been difficult to cope with the corona crisis. Creating a separate regime for this sector now brings with it the question of legal equality for other sectors, and it is also not entirely justified by the consequences of this crisis. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u328	The motion in part No. 286 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u329	The motion in part No. 287 also belongs to Mr De Jong and others. It invites the government to examine the possibilities of setting up a stopper scheme to support entrepreneurs who wish to end their business in a controlled manner. I have indicated that the cabinet intends to come forward with a bill before the summer that will indeed have to stop. That is why I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u330	The motion in part No. 287: Judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u331	Then I come to the motion on part No. 292 by Mr Stoffer. That motion calls on the government to draw up plans to support sectors that still need them by tailor-made means from the fourth quarter 2021. I have indicated that it is very difficult to predict what the fourth quarter looks like. At the end of this debate, I remain hopeful that this can work very well, but that cannot be guaranteed. Against this background of uncertainty, I have promised that we will report on our plans well before the beginning of the fourth quarter. The motion calls for plans to be drawn up for sectors as early as possible. That's too soon. This would also create impressions that are either not necessary or cannot be realised. In this way, I must discourage the motion. Once again, however, I must say that we will return to you in good time for the fourth quarter, as well as to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u332	The motion in part No. 292 is not recommended, and Mr Stoffer has a short question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u333	I have a question for clarification. Of course, you have to file a motion very quickly. That was also the background to the debate. Now you keep hearing that customization can't be done, and actually you don't think it can be done because it has to be done too quickly. It's really about, in the context of "regulating is forethought" that you think on time. Of course, we do not know exactly which sectors will need support, but of some you can feel it on your clogs. You shouldn't start late. I am not concerned that you are starting specifically now with identifying sectors, but that we are beginning well before that time and we are not finding out in the debate on possible tailor-made support in the fourth quarter that we have actually started to think too late. Actually, it's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u334	I understand the dilemma that Mr Stoffer is sketching very well, but now preparing plans for both the scenario of hope and society is almost or completely back to the old scenario, and the nightmare scenario is so unfocused there are new variants with very harsh measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u335	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u336	You always have sectors in your head. I am thinking, for example, of the coach industry. I mentioned them, too. For the industry that organises international conferences, it may take much longer for it to get back on its feet. It's about thinking on time, maybe even beyond the fourth quarter, but we'll get to that later. The point is that we start on time. It is not very hard for me to see that there is something to be done for the coach industry for the fourth quarter or the first quarter next year. No, you shouldn't start late and think, "It'll be okay by itself." I think we feel reasonable about the content, but I may not have written it down so that the Minister has some comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u337	Again, I understand the underlying dilemma. If I leave a motion of censure Chamber, I think I should be able to say it with conviction, because we are going to fill it out in a certain way. I don't have that conviction. I'm sorry. I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Stoffer had also held a motion. It was about the affiliates. During the debate, I went into it in detail. Discussions took place, but they did not lead to the conclusion that there should be a separate arrangement. I gave a detailed explanation, which Mr Stoffer apparently did not quite convince. The essence of that remains for me. It is extremely complex in its execution and can have great appearance effects. That is why I would also advise against Mr Stoffer's motion being held. The motion in part No. 294 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Aartsen, the government requests that through the VNG a call be made to municipalities for rapid authorisation, bearing in mind an earlier motion, for place of work and coulance with the collection of rents. This concerns the carnival sector. We'll be happy to have that conversation. As far as rents are concerned, I must also be honest: of course, that is what municipalities are really about in the end. But we like to bring it to the attention of the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u338	The motion in part No. 294 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u339	Yes. The motion in part No. 301, by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer, goes into groups with several e.g. That's what the debate was about. The government is requested to determine the turnover per e.g. and to provide the TVL on that basis. I've indicated that that's very real, you really want to do that checked out. Then you really need to look at what has happened to shifts that have nothing to do with the pandemic. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u340	The motion in part No. 301 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u341	The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 303 requests the government to apply the Horeca Stock and Adjustments also to wholesalers. The scheme was at the time for the individual catering industry which was indeed literally sitting with a cooling and a freezer full of perishable goods. Mr Van Haga has a point that, especially now that restrictions on catering have lasted longer, can also apply to the catering wholesale trade. But here too I encounter a very practical problem: 'horeca wholesale' is not recognizable in automated systems. The concept of wholesale trade has a code of conduct. It is to be hoped that this will also be in line with practice, but 'horeca wholesale trade' simply cannot be found. That is why this motion also falls under the category of 'understandable but not enforceable'. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u342	The motion in part No. 303 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u343	The last motion I'm dealing with is from Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u344	That's the motion in part No. 305.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u345	Yeah, that's the motion in part no. 305, it's about Booking.com. That motion calls for an overview of the potential risks to be provided in-house. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the recitals there are a number of things attributed to me that have not been said. Fortunately for that we have the Acts. I had answered Mr Van Kent's question. He asked: can't you completely exclude Booking.com from support? I have indicated that the principle of equality of law would have wider consequences and could therefore indeed cost large numbers of jobs. Mrs Van der Plas now suggests that I would only apply that to Booking.com. Moreover, the rest of the operative part does not lead me to the conclusion that the cabinet should do so. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u346	The motion in part No. 305 is not recommended. Thank you. Then we will clean up quickly and then I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for his appreciation. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u347	Thank you, Madam President. In the first period there were still a few questions that I would have come back to. The first question is from Mrs Van der Plas and concerns differences between municipalities at the Tozo. Are there any signs of major differences? No, those signals aren't there. The municipalities are busy to carry out the Tozo as legally as possible and according to the rules. The auditors also check this, according to national standards. So we have not received these signals. That was a specific question that had remained out of the first term. Another point that had remained was Mrs Simons'. This involved subsidies for self-organisations. I have a long answer, but I will be very brief. Organisations such as religious institutions can benefit from existing support measures if they meet the conditions. If they are voluntary organisations, it is often very complicated. Then it has to be via dotations, donations or for example the anbinumber, but not via the subsidised side. Otherwise, the municipalities are the point of contact where institutions can apply for grants. The motion in part No. 280 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Kent. The first part is a "spoken," so that's not my concern. That's up to you. The second part is a "requests the government." It says: do everything possible to recover. I have already explained in the first period that, legally speaking, recovery is simply not possible. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. At the same time, I would like to say that, of course, it is always possible to return voluntarily. That has another relationship with the motion in part No. 283.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u348	The motion in part No. 280 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u349	Yeah, it's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u350	That raises a question for Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u351	We've had the debate. That's where the Minister and I agreed. So let's take away the possible misunderstanding. However, I would like to call on the Cabinet, because I believe that more should be done, to do everything possible. I don't think we agree on that. You can invite those people to your office. We can increase the pressure from the chamber. In the end, social pressure can also result in the amount simply coming back nicely. Then Booking could realize: we may have done something we shouldn't have done and what isn't accepted in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u352	Then I'll get right to the motion in part No. 283. That's a "spoken" motion, on behalf of almost the entire Chamber. It addresses exactly this point by Mr Van Dijk. I have already promised in the first term that I will have that conversation and that I will also convey the sentiments, the feelings, of your Chamber. But I still attach great importance to care. It says here, "Recoverable." Of this, we have noted, including Mr Gijs van Dijk, that this cannot be done. Again, the option is open to pay it back voluntarily. Again, for the third time, I'm going to have that conversation, too. But yes, if I give such a motion judgment Chamber, then I also say that I can use legal instruments to recover it, and I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u353	But we have had a very serious debate. I think there have been three or four speakers trying to seduce the Minister to speak to Booking.com as well. I said here it works if we call it man and horse. I would also say: you should simply come to The Hague to have a conversation, because you have had 100 million of us. I'm gonna change the motion. I'll make it "refundable." I'm not blaming anything in the legal sense. We were all there. I would like the cabinet to step up, call man and horse and invite those people here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u354	Thank you. If the motion is changed to "refund," what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u355	Then I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u356	Then it's judgment room. Then we assume that Mr Gijs van Dijk will amend the motion, and then she will be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u357	Well, but just... Well, never mind. The motion in part No. 281 calls on the government to appeal to employers for undesirable behaviour and minutes. As I have indicated, the question of working with minutes is a question of collective bargaining. Of course, I can't go into that. What I can do, and I have already promised it in the first term, is to talk to the employers' organizations generally about the minutes and convey the feeling of the Chamber. That's where you're gonna judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u358	The motion in part No. 281 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u359	The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent's 282 concerns the one-off increase in assistance due to the cost of corona. This is what we discussed in the first term. I also said that we have the special assistance available, so I advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u360	The motion in part No. 282 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u361	The motion in part No. Mr Tony van Dijck's 290 on the Tozo loans should be relaxed, partly because of the partner test discussion, which we have had before. The second part is the interest on the loan. I responded to that in the first term. Those arguments remain. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u362	The motion in part No. 290 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u363	The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: That's actually standing policy. We already do. We have also pointed out to border entrepreneurs the possibility of applying for assistance in their own country. So that's where you're gonna judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u364	The motion in part No. 295 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u365	The motion in part No. 296. Then we are talking about the third party declaration administrative burden in the NOW. We talked about that. Our assessment is that what we have now proposed and sent to the Chamber yesterday gives more administrative burden relief than this proposal. That's why I don't recommend a motion in part No. 296.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u366	The motion in part No. 296 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u367	The motion in part No. 297 on the cost sharing standard. A question had also remained in Mrs Maatoug's first term. First the question. The cost sharing standard is independent of whether or not to have a job. From 21 years onwards, multiple residents can share costs in a home and the amount of assistance is adjusted accordingly. For the parents of the younger woman Mrs Maatoug referred to, nothing will change if the younger person accepts a job, because the cost-sharing standard will remain the cost-sharing standard. So there is no incentive not to go to work, because the cost-sharing standard remains the cost-sharing standard. It doesn't change that. So the negative incentive at this point is not there. What we do see in practice is that young people want to leave their homes. That is the signal that the aldermen have also given us. But that's more of a structural discussion that fits with the reconnaissance I've sent to the Chamber. By the way, we have also offered the possibility for municipalities to deviate from this at an individual level, to keep that space at a decentralised level with the municipalities. But I don't recognize that incentive. That's the most important difference of insight: whether it's an incentive not to accept a job. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u368	The situation we are being presented with is as follows. You graduated. There is therefore no cost-sharing standard yet. You're going to work. You still live at home, because there's nowhere to go. Then there is an income in that household, and then there is indeed a discount. That's the incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u369	The cost sharing standard is independent of whether or not to have a job and it applies from 21 years of age. If you work as a young person on a benefit, for example, only how many people you live in a house and how many people you can share the costs with. So there's no incentive to go to work or not to work. So that is not an obstacle in practice either. What does happen is that the fact that young people live in the house leads to a relatively lower benefit for parents. Then there might be a reason to leave home. That could be a problem. However, we do not recognize the casusism with which Mrs Maatoug came, namely that it would be an obstacle to work. Again, in the back of my head was all that little thing. We have also given the municipalities more room to apply customisation in this time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u370	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u371	Finally, Mr President. For us, that's exactly the same incentive. It is a concern, namely: if I accept this job now, there will be consequences. My question is this. You're saying you're dissuading this motion given this fact. Can you then promise that those exceptions for these very specific cases that I am talking about could possibly be used? These are people who may be affected by this, for whom that fear is very great or whose parent says "I am so afraid that there are consequences for my income, so there is the door, my beloved 23-year-old." Can you promise that we will say to the municipalities: please use the exception that you already have and which you had in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u372	I think we're talking a little bit past each other. The regulation, as I am told at least, I have only recently been active in this area, which does not have this incentive. In the scheme, therefore, it has no consequences if someone is or is not going to work. That makes the start premises a different one. How about we just get in touch with what kind of casusism comes out there and where the obstacles would be? So I'd like to have a separate contact. So I have to discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u373	The motion in part No. 297 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u374	Then the motion to part No. 300 by Mr Van Baarle and Mrs Simons on inequality. It is a right point of attention. That is why we have also allocated money for the recovery policy and extra money for youth unemployment; yet young people are often affected by the corona crisis. We have the Task Force on Work and Integration. So it fits into the policy and thus gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u375	The motion in part No. 300 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u376	Then the motion to part No. 302 of Group Van Haga on whether the dgas can use the NOW. I'd like to dissuade them. We've been through that a number of times. We have also made the following distinction. Dgas that are socially insured and whose wages have been fixed may participate in the NOW, but if not, then not. We figured this out two, three times. That's why I'd like to dissuade her from this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u377	The motion in part No. 302 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u378	Then the motion to part No. 304 from Van Haga on border entrepreneurs. My reaction to this is actually the same as my reaction to Mr Amhaouch. We have sent an extensive letter with all sorts of variants to your room. We have come to the conclusion that there is no workable arrangement. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u379	The motion in part No. 304 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u380	Then the motion to part No. 306 by Mrs Simons on sex workers. In the first term, I said that we created the TONK in order to be able to accommodate this group within the support schemes. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u381	The motion in part No. 306: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u382	Then the motion to part No. 307, which also deals with sex workers and the opt-in income scheme. That's a very complicated one. It is a separate legal classification of an employment relationship. So I'm gonna have to dissuade him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u383	The motion in part No. 307: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u384	Then the motion to part No. 308 on the Tozo partner test, in fact along the lines of Mr Tony van Dijck. Apart from the fact that we have had this discussion very often, do municipalities have any plans for what? At the beginning of this year, during the debates on the other aid packages, they said that they cannot implement them. That's also a reason to check that out for the TONK. That also discourages this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u385	The motion in part No. 308 is not recommended. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. We'll clean up for a while, and then I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance for his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u386	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't have any more questions from the first term, so I'm gonna start the motions right away. The first motion in my field is the motion in part No. 284 by Mr Aartsen and a large number of others. That's one in the category: disappointing, not surprising. In fact, the cabinet must discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u387	The motion in part No. 284 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u388	Yes. I would like to make the following points. I had already tried to build a bridge to Mr Aartsen by saying that we are very willing to look at how this is developing. If it would motivate him to hold the motion, I would also like to assure him that the cabinet is still examining what specific solutions are possible for distressing cases. But if he puts the motion to the vote in this way, the cabinet must discourage it, even with reference to the first term. The motion in part No. 288 by Mr Van Dijck. It calls on the government to continue the support package until 1 January 2022. That motion should discourage the cabinet. We very much hope, also looking at what is going on and at the number of vaccinees, that this is the last support package and that society can and will remain very open to a very large extent or even completely open. So we have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u389	The motion in part No. 288 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u390	(NL) Mr President, then the motion for a resolution on item No. 289, also by Mr Van Dijck. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. I refer him to the first deadline, in which I tried to explain why it would be wise to keep that recovery rate very low for a while, certainly in a historical perspective, but it is also reasonable to return that recovery rate to the old rate in 2024. So I'm going to have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u391	The motion in part No. 289 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u392	Then the motion to part No. 291. If I look at that generously, I can read a policy support in it. I must say, however, that we in the government are always looking at how different agencies can ensure that information on the refund is properly connected. As a cabinet, we are also investigating the possibility of developing public-private partnerships. So that's really in the color bath of those conversations. But since that motion seems to go some way in that direction, it would also be crazy to say: we do not want that at all. I would like to add, however, that a permanent point of contact and indeed a protocol are matters that we could also conclude you should not want to do so. So if Mr Stoffer could agree with that in advance, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Then we just have to wait and see what the Secretary of State has to say, because I think that the idea and the inspiration are very much intertwined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u393	I think the Minister has understood the spirit of the motion correctly, which is why we deliberately did not mention a window in it or anything like that. So I agree with the coloring of the motion as it is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u394	Thank you. Then the motion gets to part No. 291 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u395	That was my guess, too. But I thought that the explanatory statement was relevant to the Acts, so that there would not be any misunderstanding about it later. Then the motion to part No. 293. It is important to do this very precisely, given that Mr Van Kent is here in the Chamber, who would like me to put as many hats as possible at the same time. What I can do is, on behalf of the Cabinet, indicate that we are exploring the options for the House of Representatives. The three of us have said that the cabinet can carry that. What I cannot do is give the impression that the cabinet is going to choose from those variants. The cabinet will have to consider the August decision-making at a later date, taking into account the feelings in the Chamber and the forming parties, of course, should they appear somewhere by that time. In any case, it will have to put together a budget. I'm gonna have to put those two things on the sidelines. With that explanatory statement, I can leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u396	I see Mr Amhaouch nodding, so he agrees with the interpretation. Then the motion gets to part No. 293 Judgment Room. Mr Eerdmans has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u397	Maybe it's a naive question. But look, this is a solidarity levy at a special time. Imagine beach tentholders saying after a rainy season: we didn't have a lot of turnover and those other groups, the cinemas, did such a fantastic job; can we catch for a while? Does it, in other words, have a precedent if we agree to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u398	If Mr Eerdmans comes to the microphone and says he's going to ask a naive question, I think that's a time when you have to be as careful as you are. But there are precedents from the past, in all kinds of forms. Think also of the instruments that did not then have a solidarity levy called a solidarity levy which was used after the previous crisis, in order to temporarily tax the highest income. One of my colleagues from the cabinet recently told me that especially many-earning professional footballers have benefited from this. More such forms have been searched and found in the past. We are a very united country, but we are also trying to ensure that solidarity and reciprocity go hand in hand. So I don't know if I could immediately extend that entirely to those who experience bad weather, even in the knowledge that it sometimes happens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u399	I hope you will understand that I would also like to ensure that every year we are more dependent on certain circumstances and that entrepreneurs say: yes, but so did you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u400	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u401	It is an exceptional crisis, but of course it is not the only crisis that can happen to entrepreneurs. So I would certainly have liked to have tested legally whether that could not lead to claims from companies which, let us say, have just had a bit of bad luck compared to companies that are simply lucky or benefit from the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u402	Let me get this straight. The cabinet is now being asked to examine options. We can do that. I would also like to take this into account, because that is how I understand Mr Eerdmans, which matters have or do not have legal consequences in the eyes of the cabinet. One of the issues where the judgment may be legally different is: what is the case for the future and what is the case for the recent past? That is a question that you can imagine can be legally different about. In substance, you can also think differently about whether you can do it towards the future, but I do not think that anyone doubts the legal sustainability of such a thing. If a cabinet or a Chamber decides to do so, you may differ in substance, but not legally. Because it just means that there's going to be a budget bill, a tax plan. If both Chambers of the States-General would accept that, it would have the power of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u403	Thank you. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u404	This is about the last point, indeed. If the cabinet is going to carry out this motion, if the Chamber agrees, then please accept the request for further consideration. It is, of course, very unusual and is also at odds with the rule of law in order to tax retroactively over a number of years ago, because that is what we are talking about. We are only able to draw up a tax plan in advance and not afterwards. Will there be any specific attention to this when the cabinet is going to carry out this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u405	I think Mr Aartsen is making it too difficult, perhaps politically motivated, to do so. The cabinet did not understand that the motion would refer to retroactive force or that it would apply to the future anyway. The cabinet has understood the motion as: explore variants! I made it very clear that we want to explore variants. I have promised Mr Eerdmans that I will include a legal weighting. But in order to preserve the peace in the outgoing cabinet, I also said that I do not want to give the impression that the cabinet will then choose from those variants. The way the cabinet deals with the budget requires further consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u406	Mr. Aartsen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u407	But I think the Minister of Finance should do justice to his own office. However, he has to inform the Chamber that I believe it is at odds with the rule of law and a lot of other things that a government in summer 2021 is proposing to levy retroactively for the financial year 2020. I think it would be wise for that to be simply communicated by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u408	That is what Mr Aartsen constantly seems to see in the motion or in the motives of the cabinet. What we will do is map out options for the motion, which does not talk about retroactive force. If it were the case that the excellent lawyers in the various departments would come to the conclusion that there are also variants that do not comply with the principles of good administration or other principles of taxation, then we will of course take that into account in those variants. Turning to Mr Eerdmans, I would point out that, if it were a forward-looking variant, I would be tempted in advance to think that you can weigh it differently politically, but that it is very unlikely that there is a legal title that opposes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u409	Thank you. Two more motions: those in part No. 298 and in part No. 299.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u410	The motion in part No. I think Mr Grinwis' 298 is a sympathetic idea. If that is the case, you should always be wary of it, but the Cabinet is prepared to investigate whether solutions to specific distressing situations are conceivable for any problems arising within the tax deferral. In doing so, the Cabinet will examine whether setting up such a team for the Tax Administration is a passable path. It's all got to be possible, too. If I put those blows to the arm, it should be possible this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u411	Mr Grinwis agrees with the interpretation. The motion in part No. 298 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u412	Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion in part number. 299 by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Aartsen. I'm gonna have to say a few things about that. What it says is: calls on the government to examine the solvency position of companies where there is still insufficient visibility and the results and so on. What we cannot do, of course, is that I hope the authors will not want us to identify the solvency position of hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of companies. What we can do is in sectors where you have concerns in advance, see if there is reason to believe that there are specific solvency problems. But that will then be much more random. And then you should try to draw conclusions from that. If you then have conclusions that call for policy, especially in view of the lens that we think, hope, suspect, wish it to be finished with the aid packages after the third quarter, then you should involve it in any decision-making. I have to say that, because otherwise we will do exactly what Blok and Koolmees rightly warned against, which is to suggest that we could look in the books at a lot of companies. We really shouldn't want that. I'd like to give the motion with that clause judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u413	Let me look at Mr Van Baarle to see if he can agree with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u414	I also looked at the co-author, and the group of DENK can agree with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u415	Thank you. Then the motion gets to part No. 299 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was at the end of my Latin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u417	That concludes this debate. I thank the directors, I thank the MPs, I thank the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-6.u418	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'll close this meeting and wish everyone another sunny evening.
