ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the Act amending APPA and some other laws 2021 (35548). I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Members in the Chamber and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr De Kort of the VVD for his contribution. This is a special moment, because it's his maiden speech. As usual, a person holding a maiden speech is not interrupted. A maiden speech also offers the opportunity to tell something personal. I call Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With my 28 years I am the youngest member of the VVD Group. That is why it is even more special that, at this age, I should be allowed to speak about pensions and the benefits of political officials. And then it's my maiden speech. Anyone who goes into politics knows you do it for a reason. For that you have certain motivations and ideals. Before I come to the substantive contribution of the VVD, I would like to dwell on my motivations and ideals. Madam President. For that, I have to go back to my childhood. Together with my brother Dirk I had a very nice childhood, actually a carefree childhood. I grew up in a Brabant entrepreneurial family in Veldhoven. There really were no worries until March 15, 2008. That was a day that changed my life forever; on that day I suddenly became almost blind. On such a day, of course, your life is upside down. I was rushed into surgery at Maastricht Hospital. As a result, I left a residual visa of about 4%. A few months later I also threatened to lose my hearing, but fortunately they managed to prevent that from happening in Maastricht. In the meantime, I'm a politician who listens. When you get a disability in the middle of puberty, it has an impact on the rest of your life. I was 15 years old. I was doing soccer, with girls and with school and I didn't know that health wasn't self-evident. It's important that at that moment the right people are there for you, that friends are there for you, that there's a teacher who takes one step further and that your parents are there. They're still waiting for me. I noticed then that all sorts of agencies wanted to decide for me how to decorate my life, while I think you should be able to decide for yourself. My belief is that people, regardless of their disability, should be given the space to develop their talents. They must not be restricted by their limitations. By thinking in possibilities rather than inopportunities is indeed much more possible. That mentality, Madam President, I came across at the VVD. By thinking in possibilities I could still study, I could still act as DJ Braille and became politically active, first in Veldhoven and now in the Chamber. My motivations and ideals are that I can work for people who experience setbacks in life, so that they get the space to develop their talents. So I'm far from ready for retirement as a political minister. That's how I'll get back to the bill that's now before me. In my own words, in summary, we are moving towards greater transparency and better feasibility. That's what the VVD is in favour of. However, we still have two points of attention. The first is the feasibility. The pensions of officials are administered by different co-governments: some 350 municipalities, 12 provinces, various water authorities and the government. The timeline is very tight. Can the Minister state whether this is realistic? Can this be entered in time? Can the Minister also guarantee that all fellow governments are ready for that? A second focus for the VVD group is the partner pensions. In line with the pension agreement, a partner pension will come in new style in 2023-2024. However, the Minister chooses to take an intermediate step for the partner pension. We wonder whether that step is necessary. Can the Minister explain why she considers this step necessary and what financial consequences this step has or does not have? So much for my first-term contribution. I look forward to a pleasant cooperation with my fellow speakers, the Minister and the rest of the Chamber, in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. Congratulations with the very beautiful and personal story of your maiden speech. I wish you every success in this Chamber. It's very good of you to do this out of your head. That promises a lot for the future. I would like to suspend the sitting for a short moment so that colleagues can congratulate you. Once again, congratulations on your lovely maiden speech and success in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u5	I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66 for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to echo your words on Mr De Kort's maiden speech. A beautiful, optimistic story about thinking in possibilities, apart from the beautiful personal note. I hope we're gonna hear a lot from DJ Braille. Mr. Chairman. I knew Home Affairs was a broad portfolio, but I didn't think that the first debate, starting again, would be about mathematical formulas and about social security legislation. Anyway, I thought: we're going to pay more attention to the quality of legislation, so I'm going to look into it. I have also seen it more busy in this Chamber when we were talking about ourselves, but that aside. I think that this bill, which regulates a number of practical matters, does touch on some fundamental issues, when it comes to the legal situation. I am also looking forward to considering the legislative proposal to set up a consultative college, because it also shows how important it is to look at this type of change in coherence. If you're turning a cog around somewhere, it's gonna have effects elsewhere. The consistency with the normal world, so to speak, sometimes raises questions. Mr. Chairman. On the legislative proposal before us, I have four specific points. First of all about the systematics. The line is always to align the pension scheme for political officials, the APPA, as Mr De Kort also said, with the regulations for public staff. Then there are some deviations because of the special nature of political functions. Public staff are governed by private law, and we have to lay down this legal framework. This will take a little more time and will also require a two-thirds majority in this Chamber. This additional step will therefore result in delays and could lead to inequality. My question to the Minister, on top of all that, is whether she also sees an opportunity to simplify that process, for example by providing that the ABP is always applicable, unless otherwise provided. Can it at least ensure that the transposition of such changes becomes more rapid in the Chamber so that the transitional problem is also reduced? Secondly, the waiver of the benefit. Some former politicians would like to waive the benefit, for example because they already have a new full-time job and do not want a job interview on top of that. Sometimes that's risky. They think, rightly or wrongly, that they have a risk of having to pay the benefit all the way back to the moment they started receiving it, as we saw with colleagues in the previous period, and that you are giving up your safety net. Then the usual route is not to say that you do not pay the benefit, but not to have it paid out, so that you do not lose your right to benefit immediately, but can stop it for a while, as it were, and then go back in, along with the job application obligation that goes with it. I think it is important that this is made clear and that this legal explication is good. How is the Minister going to ensure that it is made known to everyone? Then I'll talk about the benefit. This law is called the APPA, the General Pension Act political ministers. That name doesn't cover the cargo and is also confusing. My question is whether the Minister does not see reason to change the citation title of the law. And finally, taking the benefit to other parts of the Kingdom. I see that I have given up too little time, because it is fascinating matter. The Minister proposes that, in the APPA, in line with the Unemployment Act, the WW, the benefit should expire on departure abroad. For example, the Aldermen's Association asks to make an exception in the case of relocation to the overseas territories within the Kingdom. The Minister already acknowledges in the explanatory memorandum that there are exceptions to the expiry of WW's right on departure abroad, for example within the EU or six months. These exceptions are also described in the Unemployment Act. But would it not also be logical for this House, on which Article 50 of the Constitution says that we represent the entire Dutch people, which also controls the National Council of Ministers, to make that exception in the APPA, for example in the case of people who lived on Curaçao before their swearing-in and want to return to that island even after the end of their term? My question is, therefore, whether the Minister can go a little deeper on this point and whether she is prepared to allow this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Daan, it's not as pretty as you did it in your head, but I'm gonna try and make a story out of it anyway. Mr. Chairman. This proposal concerns the reduction of differences and the improvement of feasibility. The CDA Group strongly supports both aspects. Whether they are reports of the National Ombudsman, conclusions of the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review, the Council of State or the General Court, there is often a red line to discover, namely that clear usefulness and need of certain laws and regulations is sometimes lacking and feasibility is difficult. And that's what we want. In this case, the amendments of the APPA, the General Pension Act, are political ministers, with which we want to align them with the regular regulation of government staff. In addition, this proposal covers a number of other legislative points, almost all with the aim of simplifying, aligning terms and, in some cases, promoting readability. The document talks about a proposal containing both sweet and acid in a explanatory relationship. The CDA Group agrees. On a few points, we have comments, questions or concerns. Mr. Chairman. First, the expiry of the Anw compensation. The CDA Group was concerned about the ABP's cancellation of this compensation. The exception of ABP, which at first applied only to terminally ill, was really too limited. The Minister now states that the APPA has an exception for people who have to pay twice as high a premium. Is this derogation equivalent to the amended ABP scheme? Does this also apply, for example, to people who are refused by the insurer? Furthermore, we welcome the proposal that the part should enter into force three months later, but in order for people to realise that they need to take action to reduce risks in the future, good communication is also needed. At the ABP we saw that the communication went very badly. How's that gonna happen? The government also proposes to create the possibility to waive payment of the APPA benefit. This is, on the one hand, a desire of directors, because it also removes the obligation to apply when they have found a new full-time job. On the other hand, it's a part of what a driver can get into. Indeed, it may increase the social pressure to waive the payment of an APPA benefit. The government insists it's a right. And that may be the case, in practice it is sometimes used very hard against drivers. The articles in the newspaper in which former aldermen are placed as pocket-fillers because they use that right and sometimes very unreasonable discussions in a city council about this are commonplace. We shouldn't be naive about that. Framing is the order of the day in politics and can damage people personally. I sincerely hope that working together on a new governance culture will also result in us not dealing with each other in this way, but with a little more respect and decency. Finally, Mr President. The government proposes modifications to the Dutch Reinsurement Act for Re-integration and Occupational Medical Care. The CDA Group is not opposed to this, but it does have the question of whether applications to make use of these budgets are also checked, so that they are used to achieve the goals set, such as accelerated reintegration after the end of a Second Parliamentary Membership or the prevention of a person becoming ill. It is and will continue to be Community money that is being used and which we simply have to deal with in an economical manner at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she can respond immediately to the questions asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to the three spokesmen who are here on this subject. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr De Kort. I thought it was a very special maiden speech he just gave. The chairman said it, too. The speech was personal. And whatever appealed to me, and whatever Mr Sneller referred to, the thinking in possibilities. He linked that to his political party, but fortunately that is true for many in this Chamber and also for myself. Think of possibilities! Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. It is a rather complex subject, particularly in the legislative sense, also because of the two-thirds majority, which I thought was mentioned by Mr Sneller. It is important that groups that are not represented today realise this, because it is not just a vote when it is. But before the time comes, I would like to answer the questions asked and also, by way of introduction, a blessing, if only so that people can read it one day, because it is technically complex. It is therefore a question of adapting the APPA pension scheme, which also changes a number of parts with regard to the APPA benefit. The essence of the matter, as has just been said, is actually to simplify the implementation of APPA pensions and to align them with the ABP rules, the pension scheme for civil servants. Then there is a joint starting point for APPA and ABP in the discussion on the new pension system. That goes in 2027, also for APPA. With the administrative umbrella and the professional association, I am going to draw up a plan for the APPA to deal with the transition to this new pension system. Questions have also been asked about feasibility; I will come back to that in a moment. But that's how I'm gonna put it into practice. The opportunity has also been used to propose a number of adaptations to other laws which concern the legal status of political officials and which also require amendment. The APPA pensions are in principle subject to the APB Pension Regulations. A package of changes was introduced by the ABP in 2018 to reduce the complexity of the implementation, in particular of the survivor's pension. The changes at the ABP were partly detrimental and partly beneficial to those concerned. This is known as "sweet" and "acid." Sweet and acid were in balance; that was important. All elements of the package of changes have therefore been introduced at the same time. That is an important starting point. Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA spoke about this earlier. The legislative proposal therefore provides for the same package of amendments, so as to facilitate the implementation of APPA pensions. The most important sweet, just to stay in the terminology, is the reintroduction of the capital covered rather than the risk covered partner pension. The most important element which is then supposedly acidic is the abolition of the Anw compensation. It was introduced when the General Widow and Being Act was replaced in 1996 by the General Survivors Act. With its entry into force, fewer survivors than previously were eligible for a public benefit and what became known as the Anw-gat. With the Anw compensation and the APPA scheme, the gap was partly compensated. A number of points have just been mentioned and some concerns have been expressed. I'm saying a little bit more about that than I was actually planning. But it had thus become a system that was no longer feasible in terms of complexity. On the basis of the present legislative proposal, the Anw compensation also expires in the APPA. This means that APPA stakeholders should, if necessary, take care of their partner and children themselves, in addition to partner and orphan pensions, for example through a survivor's insurance. That is why they must be informed in good time. They will indeed have the time, as Mrs Van Dijk said, until three months after the entry into force of this amendment, to take out such supplementary survivors' insurance if necessary. That seems, then, to be a reasonable transitional period. In addition to this substantive change in the APPA pension scheme, it is also proposed to bring terminology more closely into line with the ABP rules. So the term "nurse pension" is changed to "partner pension." It also proposes changes aimed at making the APPA more transparent, and an amendment has been proposed to allow for the transfer of value of small pensions without the consent of the participant and automated. That was already settled for other pensions, but not yet for this group. With all these changes, the last differences between the ABP and the APPA pension are aligned in substance. Mr Sneller finds it very interesting, but all in all it is a very technical operation for many people. With the implementation of those changes, it is important to do so, just for the implementation practice. As regards the APPA benefits, the proposed amendments are actually the result of the evaluation of the so-called Dijkstal legislation, which introduced, inter alia, the application requirement and reintegration guidance in 2010. The Chamber was previously informed of this by letter dated 6 July 2018. Mr. Chairman. Let me see what else I want to say by way of introduction. I think I will leave it at that and I will be able to pass on the other points by answering the questions. First of all, Mr De Kort's question is whether this is realistic and feasible. What about the provinces, the municipalities and the waterboards, all of which are affected? It is true that this is a statutory pension scheme which also applies to delegates, aldermen and daily board members of the water boards. I consult the domes. When amending the APPA, IPO, VNG and Union of Water Councils are consulted on the feasibility of the arrangements. It's the tasks they perform in co-management. It is therefore not the case that all individual provinces, municipalities and water boards have to agree, but the domes. They contracted the implementation of the APPA to three implementing institutions. This will facilitate the implementation and implementation of the new system and these changes. Changes to the APPA are therefore accompanied extensively. We provide circulars and there is extensive consultation with the implementing institutions, precisely in view of their feasibility and feasibility. Then there is Mr De Kort's other question. He mentioned the fact that we are actually taking an intermediate step in the survivor's pension in relation to the pension agreement. It is true that we are taking that intermediate step. This has no financial implications, and I can give a very brief answer on this point. Let's talk about why. It concerns an equalisation of the construction of APPA pension claims with the ABP pension rules. The elaboration of the arrangements for the pension reform will lead to a major amendment of the ABP rules by 1 January 2027. APPA's pension scheme will then have to be adapted accordingly. By aligning APPA and ABP now, the discussion about the transition to the new pension system that you then created for APPA is the same starting position as for ABP. As a result, an already very complex transition to a new pension system will not be subject to additional derogations or specific provisions for the APPA. That is the essence of the answer to Mr De Kort's question. Then there are Mr Sneller's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u11	I think there is another question from Mr De Kort about the answer. Is that right? No, it wasn't; it was a sham.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u12	I shall now turn to Mr Sneller's questions. His first question was whether the APPA could be included as the main rule that the ABP pension rules apply mutatis mutandis, unless the APPA provides otherwise. The APPA's pensions already refer to the substance of the ABP scheme on a number of occasions, for example in terms of calculation rules, retention, possible reductions, the build-up rate and the franchise to be used. Those are all the well-known retirement terms in a row. However, declaring the entire ABP rules governed by private law in advance is contrary to the constitutional requirement that the legal status of Members of Parliament should be governed by law. That must indeed be adopted by the two chambers at two-thirds majority. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... A practical objection is that it cannot be considered in advance whether any change to the ABP can be taken over one-on-one by political ministers without affecting accumulated claims. An important part of a pension scheme is always the transitional right. Due to previous differences between APPA and ABP, a slightly different interpretation of the transitional law is needed. Nevertheless, as always with Mr Sneller's proposals, this is of course very interesting. With further simplifications of the system, we could still see what we can learn from it and what we could simplify.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u13	The latter reassures me. Look, I understand the objections and I am sure that will indeed not be the solution. It was just one of the examples, or an opportunity to explore whether it is systematic to simplify. Because we are now discussing proposals that will have to go for political ministers sometime next year, whereas those for ABP participants have already started on 1 January and 1 May 2018. Of course, there's a big hole in that. One would like it to be a little faster, especially because of the transitional right and, for example, the question asked by Mr De Kort about the new pension agreement. If this law had been dealt with in a manner of speaking four years ago, that would have been a less jumping point. So that's a little digging.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u15	I understand the point in itself, but what exactly is Mr Sneller's question on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u16	That I am pleased that the Minister is committed to this, if I understand correctly, and that is the question that she wants to think about the transposition of changes to the ABP, the starting point being 'we want to have as much as possible in the APPA'. The question is also whether the transitional period between the modification of the ABP and the modification of the APPA can be reduced. And does she really want to look at a simpler system to regulate that conversion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u17	That last one, for sure. That was actually the commitment I made. On that first point, the last commitment also helps. I can't reverse what happened now. There was some time in between. I thought that was what Mr Sneller was referring to. I can't change that anymore. But we are looking to the future, in other words, at Mr Sneller's suggestion. Then Mr Sneller rightly asked, I think, about the following. You can waive the benefit. People need to know that. They need to know exactly what's going on. "How are you going to make that known?" was actually his question. I think it's important to do that. The beneficiaries receive information about this through a circular through the implementing institution or the public body. I have not heard anyone say anything else, but this is important: the waiver of the benefit is, of course, a personal consideration and decision of the person concerned, and of no one else. The proposal is therefore in no way intended to undermine that right to benefit. The reason for the proposal is the need to allow a remainder of the benefit to be cancelled, in order to end the application obligation, for example because other income has been obtained. However, the amendment also leaves open the possibility to suspend the payment of the benefit for other reasons, whether temporarily or not, but once again, only as a result of a personal consideration and decision of the person concerned. However, the legislative proposal regulates this, and it also regulates the provision of genuinely unambiguous provision that the termination of the payment of the benefit means that the person concerned retains the right to the benefit, provided that the duration of the benefit has not, of course, expired. Because there can be a personal situation, for example, through dismissal from a new position. The benefit can then be reactivated. Then Mr Sneller had another suggestion. He said that that name APPA doesn't really cover the load. Well, that name's pretty old. It turns out that it has been used since 1969, which is a very long time ago, and that no one else has ever suggested to give it another name. So Mr. Sneller has a scoop here. In my opinion, the fine thing about APPA is that it sounds good, if I may say so in this plenary. "Auppa," which would be the abbreviation of what we're doing now, sounds less beautiful. So if, in addition to this interesting suggestion, Mr Sneller can also think of a term with a catchy abbreviation, then perhaps we could also change the naming of the next legislative amendment. It's a bit of a winged concept. Whether it's totally covering the load? No, but if you want to do that very neatly, we get the "general benefit and pension law political ministers," abbreviated "auppa." I don't think that's gonna be a winged concept. There was also a question from Mr Sneller about the overseas territories. This amendment is proposed on the basis that the APPA benefit follows the WW, unless the exception arises from the special character of the political office. The WW excludes the Caribbean Netherlands. I think that Mr Sneller refers to such a situation, where the exception arises from the special nature of the post. For example, someone from the Caribbean Netherlands can become a Member of Parliament, resign and return to the Caribbean Netherlands. Then, of course, it would be strange for you to expect that person to be able to apply only here in the European part of the Netherlands. It would also be strange if that did not happen and then that benefit expired. If that is what Mr Sneller means, I think it is right to agree that I am going to figure this out and that, if that proves necessary, I might include a specific provision for that in a subsequent legislative proposal. The situation isn't happening right now. I also hope that Mr Sneller would not want us to keep the bill for that reason. I think we should settle that equal starting position APPA-ABP now. But again, I'm going to find out very precisely, and if I need to, I'm quite prepared to come up with additional legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u18	There is a question from Mr Sneller on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u19	I may underestimate how complicated it is, but it is simply said that the right to benefits will expire on departure abroad. There are a number of derogations in the WW, including within the EU. I can also see if I can make an amendment, but if we agree that this is indeed crazy me, as the Minister is right to analyse, can we just include it in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u20	Let us then agree that I am just as well looking into whether it is necessary to include it in a specific provision. It may also be that it is implicitly regulated, because the WW has excluded the Caribbean Netherlands. I understand that Mr Sneller would prefer to amend it in this legislative amendment. Let me take a quick look at it; then I'll get back to you in a moment. Then there are a number of questions from Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA. I apologise if I do not have her questions in the right order, but I will start with the question that followed Mr Sneller's question that I have just answered. Mrs Van Dijk drew it a little further, namely to the social pressure that might exist and which in some cases may also be there to waive the benefit. We need to recognize that risk. From political-social pressure, people may feel compelled to refrain from that payout. We see that happening; that pressure is there. I think it is very important that the safety net of that APPA benefit is there. This is not only true for those individuals involved. The fact that this benefit exists and that it can be used is also a prerequisite to ensuring that people want to participate in politics, in the administration of the Netherlands. I think it is really very important to know that this benefit is there as a safety net for an uncertain and uncertain future. People need to be able to take that into account. If you choose the step to a political-administrative position, you also take a certain risk. That could be very temporary, maybe even more temporary than you intended. Then you should know that you can fall back on something, and that's the APPA benefit. Each member of the office shall be entitled to it, irrespective of the reason for his resignation, resignation or resignation. I think that is a very important starting point. It is without prejudice to anyone being able to say personally for any reason: I will not, I do not need it, I do not want it. That may of course be true, but that is a personal consideration and not a political or public consideration, which should not be created under pressure from outside. In this respect, I think it is very good that Mrs Van Dijk has raised this point. I'm really underlining this. There would be an undesirable situation and it would put the attractiveness of the political office under pressure if it were to be abandoned massively and ultimately this safety net was not in question. Another question from Mrs Van Dijk was how it is going to comply with the application requirement. Are we following this? The implementation of the application obligation has been outsourced to an implementation organisation. Re-integration guidance has been outsourced to reintegration agencies. The implementation organisation shall be the final body responsible for carrying out the application obligation on behalf of the public body. And for the implementation of the application obligation, the reintegration plan is decisive. This is drawn up in consultation with the beneficiary, but it must be established by the implementing organisation on behalf of the public organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u21	There is a question from Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u22	I don't think I made myself clear, because I wasn't referring to this piece. I was referring to adjustments in the Dutch National Assembly Compensation Act, whereby members may start certain reintegration paths before they leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u23	And the question about that was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u24	Whether money spent on it is being controlled is also being used for that particular purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u25	Okay, I'll come back to that, because I don't have that ready here. That's not how I understood the question. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of occupational health care. I thought that was the same type of question. Is it being checked? Is the target being achieved? I understand that the President is doing a marginal test of costs and performance in career orientation. The budget for occupational health care is more of the so-called management costs. Finally, the question raised by Mrs Van Dijk, but also by others, about the communication on the abolition of the Anw compensation. Well, that's gotta be good. You could also say: it has to be better. We learned that from the ABP. I've been talking in my introduction in three months. We believe that this is a reasonable period of time, but then communication with those involved is indeed crucial. So that's what we're gonna do differently and better. Hopefully we have a very short second term as well. Then I can come back to Mrs Van Dijk's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u26	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term with the MPs. That's the case. Mr De Kort for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the VVD we had two points of interest. We are also very pleased with the Minister's reply. We were a little concerned about the feasibility, but I understand that she is in contact with the IPO, the Union of Water Councils and the VNG, and that she is less concerned about that, so that reassures us. The second point, in particular that there are no financial implications for that intermediate step, is very important for the VVD. We therefore agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. De Kort. I shall also give the floor briefly to Mrs Van Dijk. Mr Sneller, by the way, is abandoning his second term; we are all watching this very closely here. I give the floor to Mrs Van Dijk and then we shall suspend for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u29	Thank you. It's very short. As regards the communication regarding the lapse of the Anw compensation, it is indicated that we are going to do better. That doesn't really make me feel like: okay, then I'll go home and then I'll be satisfied. I need to know a little bit more about how we're gonna do better. When are we gonna start? Because it has to be timely and better, so I would like a little more detail on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u30	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes? Yes, the Minister has enough to do with five minutes. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes and then the Minister's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u31	I give the floor to the Minister for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr De Kort for his promise of agreement. I promised Mrs Van Dijk that I would come back to the issue of career orientation. I had actually already given the answer in the second instance. The marginal test will be done by the chairman. All of this is intended to ensure that MPs who know they will not return to parliament will be able to do so and thereby improve their chances on the labour market. Then there is Mrs Van Dijk's other question. He thought it was a bit crazy to say that we should do better than the ABP did at the time. Of course, she is absolutely right about that, although that is the starting point. There was no transitional period at that time either. Actually, it was smash-boom. So that's what we want to do differently. It is in the first place in the transitional period of those three months, after entry into force. Of course, we'll have the chamber treatment across the street first, in the First Chamber. Then it goes into effect and then there's a three-month transition period. As soon as the First Chamber has agreed, we can start the communication process. Think of newsletters, use the websites and inform participants by letter after we have also informed the government agency by circular about the change. So we are doing this very widely and very carefully, thinking that it must be done properly. I would also like to come back to Mr Sneller's point. My suggestion was: let's take a closer look at whether it is necessary to settle this issue of the foreign and Caribbean Netherlands. Only, I thought, if we have to, we'll do it next time we change the law. Mr Sneller says: but if it has to, it might as well be now. I think he's got a point there. In my view, the Chamber did not intend to vote on the proposal today, but probably only at the next votes. I do not know exactly whether the Chamber will give us time to consider, in consultation and purely technical terms, whether it could take the form of an amendment. As far as I am concerned, the experts could consult each other if Mr Sneller is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u33	I'll take a look at Mr. Sneller. It is true that next Tuesday we are going to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u34	If the Minister prefers an amendment from the Chamber instead of a letter of amendment, I will simply make sure that that amendment is made through the Legislative Office with the legislative officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u35	Okay, good. Thank you very much. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u36	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-18-tweedekamer-14.u37	I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment, so we can then move on to the VAO Tax Avoidance. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Members in the Chamber and the viewers at home.
