ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the debate on the Legal Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u2	We are going to start the debate quickly, with Mrs Leijten from the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u3	This bill provides for a special advisory committee to be set up to advise on the legal status of politicians. And that, of course, is about the salary, about the compensation. It's about the terms of employment, which are actually quite existential. Because, yes, our work can be anywhere and anywhere. This advisory commission may cost about €100,000 per year. My first question to the Minister is: why exactly do we need this advisory committee? Isn't this just organizing your own job? I would think so. In 2004 this was advised and then the House of Representatives did not think it was a good idea. Then why would the Chamber think it was a good idea 17 years later? A member of parliament gets compensation. We know that here. The same is true of directors, aldermen and mayors. There's a difference, though. An MP receives compensation of more than €117,000 per year. That's including vacation money. That's not something to complain about. We are therefore among the 5% best-earned in the whole of the Netherlands. There will be a cost of accommodation and a cost of travel on top of the cost of living, depending on where you live, but there will also be a professional fee of about €3,000 gross per year. It's not that, is it? 'Cause there's a guaranteed retirement. No problem at all. For a long time it has even been based on final wage; that has now been adjusted. And, of course, there's something like the waiting money scheme. It has a maximum duration of three years and two months for ordinary MPs. There is an old arrangement for 2012 which includes certain members. But it is not the same as the WW, which applies to ordinary workers in our country. It's a lot more spacious, besides that more generous salary. Even MPs who have been MPs for less than three months are entitled to a six-month waiting period. It's all reasoned and you can have a big discussion about it. This debate is not now being placed where it should be, namely at the heart of this democracy. No, it's placed with an advisory committee. And then we get objective advice. Mr President, there is no such thing. You know that, too. Do you really think that the Chamber or a ministerial team is going to take over when they argue for a substantial reduction in wages or a reduction in salaries? I don't believe that. And how many committees have we had that were going to give us objective advice on how to tackle the uncertainty in the labour market? The Borstlap Committee: nothing taken over. Or the ESC with an opinion on the salary in the care, which states that it should be raised: is not taken over. If objective opinions come out, they will be taken over. And if it doesn't work out, it's gonna be pushed on the long track. That's how this committee's gonna work. I really wonder: if it wasn't a good idea 17 years ago, why is it a good idea now? "Eh, yes, MPs, political authorities have to deal with uncertainties." Well, in those seventeen years, the uncertainties for ordinary residents in our country have also grown considerably. Young people must borrow for their studies and certainly cannot get a home. But an average job doesn't get someone on a permanent contract anymore. That's an exception. All packages we get in corona time are delivered by people without job security, without pension security. And then we have to discuss an advisory committee here, because we ourselves do not dare to debate the position of Members of Parliament. We dare, Mr President. We have been proposing for a long time: scrape the waiting money; just make it, as the WW is, for everyone. We have been saying for a long time that something can happen to these generous allowances. But even the case of the MP who does not live there for which he or she gets the compensation, remains a discussion around which the House of Representatives and the Government have a big bow. This proposal is actually exactly what is broken with confidence in politics: getting yourself advised whether your fee can be raised. That is why the SP will not be in favour of this proposal. If the government is so wise that it thinks that the political fees should be raised, I say: come on, then we are discussing it; not parking elsewhere. Let's talk about the advisory committee. Who's gonna sit in that now? They must be people who have knowledge of the work. Those people will have to be paid per meeting, otherwise they will get too much compensation. That is, of course, because they receive compensation because they come from the administrative elite. They should not be subject to the statutory norming of top incomes, as they would also advise on their own higher salary with advice for a higher salary. So you get people who are outside the WNT, like people from banks and former politicians. Where exactly are they supposed to work? So where do they come to work in the future? Mr De Kort of the VVD has tabled an amendment stating that we do not want a conflict of interest, but how is that to be ruled out? I'm gonna ask him the same thing in a minute. So we say don't do it, because 17 years ago it wasn't a good idea and it's still not a good idea. But when that committee gets there, the committee members who are going to sit on it shouldn't do it if this is such an honorable job. There's $300 per meeting for it. Well, I know people who don't deserve that one day. It is said: no, but it is a time investment and then you get €300 compensation for that. Does this minister know what the voluntary allowance is above which you will be cut if you have, for example, a welfare allowance? I think you're gonna be ticking the $300 over there. This shows that the rules we make for our political, elitist bubble are so different from those for the people who are also doing crucial work, for example at this corona time. That is why this discussion is misplaced, why this bill is misplaced and why the SP will vote against it. We do not need external objective opinions on our position. We are perfectly capable of doing this ourselves. If the minister dares to make a decision, then everything remains as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u4	Thank you. Mrs Bromet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u5	The SP sketches a kind of picture of politicians as pocket fillers. We are not going to discuss whether the fee is too high or too low, because it is about setting up the advisory committee. I ask Mrs Leijten if she is aware that some people cannot afford, for example, to be a council member in a municipality, because they will have to work less and cannot afford it, because the fee is really too low. This is not just about the remuneration of Members of Parliament. It is also about council members or aldermen in small municipalities who have a part-time relationship and are not pocket fillers at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u6	I have to say quite frankly that I find it strange that in a city council, where you have a significantly different time spent, you get a council fee that often doubles an ordinary welfare allowance. I don't think I can explain that. I don't think I can explain it! I think that we are pre-sorting on politics as a profession, and I wouldn't think that was healthy. Then we should have the discussion we had last week. Are the tasks well distributed? Can someone get off for political work? I would be very much in favour of both the local bank manager and the local home assistant being able to do so. Unfortunately, that is not democracy. That the fees for council members are too low? Well, sorry, I think they're too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u7	I would like to make one comment on that. I was an alderman in such a municipality and I got net about what I now get as a member of parliament as expenses. My SP colleague received a much more generous remuneration from the SP cashier. I do not think it is fair to set aside welfare benefits and, in the meantime, give your own representatives more money than there is a legal division.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u8	Yes, we have the payment scheme. With that, I earn €3,100 net. Maybe I do not earn $3,100 net each month. I say none yet. I'm ashamed of that, because a cop on the street doesn't deserve it. When I look at what ordinary MPs earn here with sometimes more or less commitment, I'm ashamed of that. Then I think: that's not good! We have a big problem in the Netherlands in the sense that the administrative elite is too far removed from the people for whom they do it. That is due, among other things, to the unsinging of the salar. If there is a specific problem in a small municipality, you should look at it, but taking our payment scheme as a mirror seems completely bizarre to me! At all events, this proposal is not about this. If the salaries of the aldermen in the municipality where you were alderman were too low, then a proposal should be made and not an advisory committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u9	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u10	I had the same impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u11	We do not agree, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u12	You had come to the end of your speech. Thank you, Mrs Leijten. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u13	Mr. Chairman. The little debate I just had with Mrs Leijten is precisely the illustration that, according to GroenLinks, it is a good thing that we are setting up an advisory college. We, as GroenLinks, think it is a good idea to do so, because this bill requires an independent club to provide unsolicited advice on the legal status of politicians and directors. This ensures that all issues can be properly weighed and advice given. The decision on salaries and other legal points remains with the Chamber. At the same time, you avoid being blamed as a politician for taking care of your own salary here, because we will of course relate to the advice that the advisory committee is going to give. We often see here in the Chamber that, from the point of view of the legal situation, we do not consider all aspects well. In addition, it is sometimes very uncomfortable to talk about our own legal position. It's clear what we deserve, so we don't have to be secretive about that. We now also know that Mrs Leijten has €3,100 of what she gets from the SP. I can also tell you that every month I hand over €1,200 to GroenLinks for the payment scheme. All this must be transparent, but sometimes it remains uncomfortable, for example when I received a letter from a member of the State saying that we in the province cannot afford to be a member of the State. GroenLinks thinks this is important. Democracy costs money. You don't have to overload politicians with money, but you don't have to align them with welfare recipients. By setting up an advisory board, we will ensure that we can make good judgements on the basis of expert advice. Finally, another point on the legal status of politicians. We often hear that people's representatives who are sick want to be replaced but run into the fact that this must always be at least 16 weeks. Politicians feel they don't need those 16 weeks and then they stay home without a replacement. I understand that there has to be a fixed time limit to arrange for that replacement, but I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at it, because the current system sometimes means that disease replacement is perceived as too high a threshold. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u14	Thank you. Then Mr. Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In company it is rude to talk about politics or religion, at least if we have to believe Groskamp-Ten Have. But in politics it seems to be rude to talk about our own conditions of employment and indeed that of our fellow party members. The result is negligence and ambiguity, which sometimes means that even experienced parliamentarians lose their way in their own conditions of employment: salary, compensation, accommodation costs, professional costs, travel expenses and all the conditions attached to them. The past also shows that it is difficult matter. The Minister writes that the opinions of the Dijkstal Committee have been taken into account by politics on the one hand, and that their own considerations have also been made by the Cabinet and the Chamber on the other. I find this presentation a little more rosy than my memory of that episode, because I think it was the fear of being a pocket filler that made one of the central recommendations disappear. Moreover, it appears that minor or technical changes quickly raise wider questions, such as the relationship between the Empire and the local authorities, as Mrs Bromet also touched. So I fully understand the cabinet's desire to be able to submit proposals in this area to the Chamber with a thoughtful, independent advice in the back pocket, but with the specific solution we are discussing today, I still have a number of questions on five different points. First of all... Why a permanent advisory board and why not a temporary committee once every few years? The Minister writes: "It is a permanent college, but the college will operate only occasionally. The College is expected to deliver an opinion at least once per cabinet period." My question is: does this really justify a permanent character? And if we choose to do so, then that is the second point. Why should we not place it with an already existing advisory body, for example as a new task or as a chamber or a department at such an advisory body? For example, the Minister describes why it is not logical to place it with the Public Administration Council, given their current work. But we are in the process of creating a new task here, and there are indeed strong substantive similarities with their work. Wouldn't that be a logical position, which is more along the lines of their current work than bites with it, if that is good Dutch? Finally, on the small-scale variant: a separate advisory college. Is there anything known from evaluations about the quality of such small-scale, light permanent advisory colleges compared to larger advisory bodies that have a little more support and a little more body? Mr President, third, the opinion requested and unsolicited. We have already exchanged this in writing. I think it's a complicated choice. I am not entirely convinced that this is the best solution to achieve what the Minister says he wants to achieve, namely to bring some peace to the debate and some peace to the decision-making process. In my view, this would be a regular request for advice, once every five years or more I had proposed two years; that might be a little bit more logical, because in the meantime you will have that rest, while unsolicited advice also provokes advice. The risk of "college seeks task" or "hey, there is such a college; let's ask them something extra" might cause more unrest. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister. She herself writes that unsolicited advice may arise, for example, if there have been substantial changes in the private sector. Perhaps the Minister could explain a little more about what she is thinking. What could be such a substantial change that justifies an unsolicited opinion? Then the definition of the target group. The Dijkstal Committee itself advised in 2004 to include, for example, the legal status of top officials. My question is why the Minister has chosen to talk now only about political ministers, when we know that top officials are close to that. In the pyramid like Dijkstal at the time, all kinds of other standards are attached to it. This includes, for example, the High Colleges of State, which also occasionally discuss. I myself was more involved in the discussion about the indexing of the King's income, or what exactly those fees are called in the financial statute. This is linked to the indexation of the salary of the Vice President of the Council of State. That is also a relevant issue, is also sensitive, is also difficult and affects other discussions, so why is that outside? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the appointment of members. I've seen the VVD amendment. My question to the Minister is as follows. Retiring counsellors may have advised on their own future salary. Isn't that exactly the conflict of interest you should avoid? How does that relate to the right to stand as a candidate? And wider: that independence is the basis why this... In my opinion that is something other than "objective." How do we ensure that the reflection with those checks-and-balances and that diversity is reflected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u16	If you don't answer the main question, you can dive into the technique. Does Mr Sneller of D66 consider it desirable to have an advisory committee for this purpose? Doesn't he just think it should be a political debate? Do we feel, by a majority, that there should be a higher remuneration for political officials, or do we not think so? You have to answer that question, don't you? That's not afraid to enrich yourself, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u17	At the end of the day, politics will remain the last word. Only, there's an advice first. On legal questions and legislative proposals, the Council of State first gives advice and then politics itself deals with them. So I think Mrs Leijten is creating a bit of a false contradiction: either there is an advisory board or we take responsibility as politics in the end. That is what Mrs Leijten is doing, among other things, by knocking it down to: should we give ourselves more or less salary? Mrs Leijten also knows from the debates we had here two weeks ago that there are many more technical things involved. Mrs Bromet has just rightly said that it is also about other levels of government, where the relationships are sometimes quite relevant. If you start working on one thing, it also has consequences elsewhere, which we don't always see directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u18	I think it's exactly about that question. In fact, the majority here thinks that we should get more, but they do not dare to discuss it politically. So you're going to put that "objective." Then who's gonna be on that committee? Then let me ask that question. We just have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u19	May I perhaps take up that first point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u20	We just have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u21	Mrs Leijten, Mr Sneller would like to respond to your first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u22	For example, that Dijkstal committee recommended a 2% increase in the salary of Members of Parliament, I remember. That's not even the point why it went. It is not about whether we should earn more. It concerns the attractiveness of public administration and the question of whether serious thought has been given to it. At the time, as a group, we felt that additional steps could indeed be taken, but that was not the case initially for Members of Parliament. That was for very different drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u23	Yeah, with that same bullshit, "we have to pay those high-ranking officials well, because otherwise they're going to the business community." I dare tell you, Mr. Sneller, that the top officials who get another place from the ABD when making a mistake had really been put out of business for a long time. You'll see them here, too. The attraction of being a popular representative is that you can achieve something that you are taken seriously, that you get answers to asked questions and that the motions you submit and get a majority will be carried out. That's the fight we have to fight. But let's get back to that committee. Actually, we can't put it down ourselves. That should be done by a committee "objected." Can the tram driver and the police officer be on that committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u24	Yes. When I was on the board locally, I was spokesperson for Traffic. At that time there were tram drivers who were active in the trade union and who had a very thorough opinion on it. It's not random picking a politician or former politician off the street, as you seem to suggest a little bit. It seems logical to me that it is also people who have studied this a little more during their political career. In the same way, I don't think it's like pulling a tram driver out of a tram that drives by. But there are indeed tram drivers who have a meaningful opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u25	When I read the proposal in this way, it is allocated to the same political cabal, so to speak, which we often say is unhealthy. That's not without respect for the person. It's about the dynamics. It is not healthy for politicians to advise on other politicians, that bankers advise on politicians or that business will determine whether our salaries are market-oriented. It's healthy for the population to advise us, if the population would do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u26	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u27	Does Mr Sneller agree with me that, if he is convinced of the need for an independent advisory committee, an advisory committee with an "objective" opinion, we as a parliament must ensure that this committee is populated by people from the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u28	This is the contradiction Mrs Leijten is trying to create between 'people working in business' and 'people'. And there is no such contradiction. Mrs Leijten is, after all, a bit of a list of false contradictions practicing at the interrupting microphone in this debate. I regret that, because I do not think that does justice to what Mrs Leijten sees, namely what lies underneath. It concerns the discussions that have taken place on this issue and also the discussion about the legislative proposal that we had here two weeks ago, and how complicated that can be. I have also said that "objective" and "independent" are two different things in my opinion. So Mrs Leijten is throwing a little too much on a pile to give a meaningful answer to what she is putting forward here, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u29	Mrs. Leijten, concluding, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u30	No, I think I'm doing exactly what you need to do, which is to ask: who does this serve? That's the answer. For political ministers who apparently do not dare to write a proposal themselves. That must have been objectified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u31	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u32	And then my question is, who are we for? As representatives of the people, we are there for the people. Can they sit down then? Yes, only if they have knowledge of it, as the bill has written. I think that's unhealthy. I find, without regard to the person, that you create your own bubble. That's what I'm saying here. That's not a false contradiction. That is a contradiction which I think is very active on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u33	Thank you. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u34	In particular, let Mrs Leijten come up with concrete suggestions for reflecting the composition of an advisory body. If Mrs Leijten has listened to my input, she has heard that I am not yet convinced that it should be a permanent advisory body. That's what she put me up to three times. But let it come up with concrete suggestions as to how this will be usefully designed. I can't hear her about that at all. In the first term, it is already 'we are against' and 'there is no need', because it itself has a flattened problem analysis which does not do justice to what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u35	This brings us to the end of Mr Sneller's contribution. We're going to see Mr. De Kort of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The allowances and benefits of politicians are under a magnifying glass. That makes sense, too. They are paid out of community money, and so we have to deal with it carefully. We think it wise to create a consultative college that gives expert and depoliticized advice to the cabinet and parliament. In doing so, we attach importance to independence, justification and objectivity. There are good experiences abroad with a similar system. Since the 1970s, such advisory colleges have been working in the UK, Canada and Australia, as we have read. If I look at this model, it is most similar to the United Kingdom model. The advisory board gives a serious opinion, but the final decision is in parliament. The question I have to the Minister is: why is this model preferable? As a VVD, we also attach importance to the fact that the advisory body gives its opinions on a future period of government, both for national politics and for those local authorities. Mrs Bromet mentioned that too. There are indeed problems there that need to be looked at with expertise. In addition, as a VVD, we are going to table an amendment which will be my first amendment, so that is in itself a good time for me to deal with the Members who are going to sit in the advisory board. They are there without burden, and rightly so, and they do not have a political office that they are carrying out at that time. That would not be compatible, so that is also justified. But we would like to go a step further. That is why this amendment proposes a cooling down period, so that someone who has fulfilled a political position has not done so for at least two years before he can sit in the advisory board. The question I wanted to ask has actually already been asked by Mr Sneller: does the Minister also see possibilities when someone leaves the advisory board? So much for my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u37	Thank you. Please stand still, because Mrs Leijten has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u38	That amendment that the VVD is making, can I take it from that that the VVD is in favour of the advisory board being set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u39	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u40	Why does the VVD come to two years? What exactly is that based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u41	This is in line with the lobby law for former directors, who are also unable to be active in the sector in which they have been minister or secretary of state for two years. That is why the two-year deadline has been chosen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u42	Mr President, I... Well, okay. I already told you. The Hague, the jobs carousel in The Hague takes very good care of itself. And we, I say, take care of that. People are sometimes critical about that. That's what other people call flattened prejudices. Doesn't the VVD think it's very unhealthy that, at the moment that you yourself dare not engage in the debate about the level of compensation, you're going to put together a committee of future politicians and former politicians, whether or not with cooldown, to objectify to advising on the remuneration for politicians?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u43	As Mr Sneller pointed out, opinions are often sought. But the final decision is here. It belongs to Parliament, and it is right to do so. But I think it is healthy in itself to seek expert advice. It is really not the case that only politicians or former politicians have to take part in it. We deliberately want to go a little further than is currently proposed. A former politician can also be a council member from the municipality of Bergeijk, a small municipality in Brabant where the fee is very different, which can indeed give good advice on the fees for the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u44	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u45	I mentioned it in my own speech: setting up committees is organizing your own political task away. The government does so very often, and the Chamber often agrees to do so. For example, the Van der Meer Committee gave a very important opinion on the remuneration of social lawyers. They say that if we maintain the remuneration for the social lawyer as it is now, the social lawyer will disappear. You know who's been wiping his ass with that for four years? Exactly, the VVD Group and the VVD Minister of Justice. So you only do the setting up of a committee if you want to organise your political task away and you only take over it when it suits you. This means that my conclusion can only be that this committee must advise that the compensation for politicians should simply go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u46	Mr. De Kort, do you have any response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u47	You know what, Madam President? It may as well be that committee advises that those fees go down. I would be happy to enter into that debate with Mrs Leijten in the long term. Then I think it is good to have an expert, objective and well-founded advice. Then perhaps we will discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u48	Thank you. Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A relevant question to ask in advance, as has been said here before, is: "Why do we need such an advisory committee at all? Can't we just do this ourselves?" I'm sure we could do just fine on our own. There are very expert officials in this house who can prepare excellent proposals in this area. The question is whether this is wise. We know how sensitive discussions about rewards for political ministers are. Such a committee prevents us from advising ourselves on our own rewards and legal status. So much for the point. The purpose of such a committee is to ensure the substantive expertise and political independence of the remuneration system for political ministers. So what do you need? Contentually expert people and politically independent people. There is still a point of discussion for the CDA. It is quite possible to assess substantive expertise and to match people with it. Political independence, as described in the document, is a more difficult issue. Would it not be wise to include as a condition for membership: no active recent history in politics? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. It is not just about us; it is indeed about other governments. At the moment we see that there is a call from several provinces to adjust the remuneration for members of the State. Arguments they give are that it is not proportionate to the remuneration in, for example, medium or large cities. One argument is also that the States always meet by default during the day, unlike many councils and that the current fee does not compensate enough for this. Young people, in particular, seem to be losing out or not wanting to start such a role at all. Our question is whether the Minister recognizes this signal and, if so, whether it might be a good first task for this committee to examine it and come up with an opinion. This in the first place, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u50	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop, SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. No one can be a judge in their own case, as is a well-known legal principle. A similar rule could also be used to determine your own reward and then it can be useful, especially if something of "graaier" and "pocket fillers" is called rather quickly. That is why the question is right: who will determine your reward if you are the highest organ in the country? The passing of the legislator does not seem sensible to the SGP, but we believe that the government's proposal to set up a consultative body for this purpose makes sense. As a result, you hope to get a little more objectivity into the debate. And then not only should be a consultative college for MPs, but also, of course, for other members of parliament. We do have a question about the task of the advisory board. First of all, it is striking that the legislative proposal itself does not really say anything about this. The proposal is very bald in that respect. Why not say something, for example, about situations where the advisory board should at least advise? And why is there no provision on the task and activities, as is the case with other advisory bodies? See, for example, the Education Council. The SGP also wonders whether there is any doubt as to the content of the definition of the position of political officials. Is the task really limited to assessing the remuneration of money or, for example, can there be unsolicited advice on facilitating political officials to avoid burn-outs, a highly topical issue, as you undoubtedly know? Then there is the second point I would like to make, and that is that as Dutch people we would like to be in the first place for a dime. In fact, that seems to be the case when it comes to the quality of democracy. Expectations for representatives of the people continue to rise, but this does not apply to financial support for the work to be done. First of all, it is of course a privilege, an honour and a pleasure if you are allowed to represent the community and you don't have to make a big deal of money from that either, but it makes a lot of sense when people's representatives have to turn in their salary because of their political work and the time they have to make available. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to the position of Member States. In many cases, the compensation they receive does not compensate for the loss of income, for example by having to take extra time off. This problem, I know from experience, has been on the agenda for decades and has been pushed forward for decades, from one minister to another, from one cabinet to another. There have been several reports, for example from the Dijkstal Committee, and there would be a final report before the Minister took action. Finally, the report is from 2020 and it is clear. It states that the absolute level of remuneration of members of the State is too low. Moreover, the amount received by members of the State, which also applies more or less to the general board members of waterboards, is insufficient to compensate for lost income and there is reason to adjust the level of the remuneration once. On average, State members and general board members of water boards receive less than city council members per hour. Compared to council members from medium and large municipalities, this difference is even greater. Is the Minister prepared not to put it off again, but after the almost twenty years of this discussion, finally to make that one-off correction in view of the urgent need to recruit and retain sufficiently good and well-qualified members of the State? The follow-up can then be taken up by the advisory college. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that in the first period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u52	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u53	I find it a strange plea to hear from a party like the SGP, who should, above all, see it as a calling and an intrinsic mission to represent the people. But I actually wanted to go back to the first part of your speech. You say: it is difficult to decide on ourselves, so just an advisory committee. Is it exactly how I say it? Or isn't that what the SGP means?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u54	No, that advisory committee will only issue an opinion. In the end, that is precisely the difficulty of this gremium itself, which has to decide on its own level of income. That's what makes it so uncomfortable. Then an objectified advice from an advisory committee that includes experts who can also assess a kind of HRM-like function building and determine a job evaluation is about the only tool you have to have a counter-argument when you are called: you are a bunch of pocket fillers, grabs and plushsticks and so on. No, we take advice from such a professionally equipped advisory committee seriously, both for council members and State members, waterboard members and MPs. In the end, we have to make our own decisions. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u55	Do you know why that's uncomfortable? Because we already earned 5% of the best in the Netherlands. Because we are taking decisions on the flexibility of the labour market, which has led to a debt industry for ordinary workers. Because there are people who need two jobs to make ends meet. Because we're all bringing this stuff to the market, so people can't afford health insurance anymore. That's why it's uncomfortable. It wouldn't be uncomfortable if you objectively determined that we wouldn't make enough money. It is uncomfortable, because this has to be an objective advice to give more salary later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u56	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u57	My follow-up question to the Bishop is next. If Mr Bishop thinks that independent or objective opinions should always be taken over, why are we still here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u58	I think the suggestion that this is an attempt to give yourself as a Chamber a higher compensation, really does not do justice to reality. What you need to come to an appreciation of the function in a more honest way is that people with substantive knowledge are looking at it. For example, in a company or in a school you have a job building that experts look at. Eventually, it's the board that has to make the decision. That power of administration lies here with the Chamber. That's what makes it so uncomfortable. That is not the case with the points Mrs Leijten mentioned. I have no objection to any difference in salary for different functions, where the SP seems to be leaning more. This may well be justified in the case of different responsibilities, tasks and diversity of tasks and competences. But I do need a mirror. Do we do well if we scale up at that level? Such a consultative commission can be both for States and councils, the Chamber and you name it all, serviceable and functional. Then I'm far from saying that it's a premeditated goal that it has to be a scale higher or something like that. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u59	Locking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u60	I'll give it to you on a note. I see the Members of Parliament here all agreeing to a so-called objective opinion. That's gonna come out: MPs are gonna make more money. Those same MPs decide that home care can be tendered, so that people with important and responsible work, at the most vulnerable home, can clean up...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u61	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u62	... because it's no longer a concern. For 20% less of their salary!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u63	I know there are abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u64	That's exactly the problem! The problem is not that we are pocket fillers, but that we look down on others. If there is to be a function building, then the people we decide on should look at it. But we're gonna rig it up through our own elitist bubble. I think that's totally unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u65	Mrs Leijten's position is clear. I respect her approach, but I don't think you should mix things up. We are talking here about compensation for political officials. Since you're partly a judge in your own case, it's careful to have outsiders look at it. This is unrelated to, and without prejudice to, other sectors also have a right to fair and good pay. But you can't cross one against the other. I'm a little short on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u67	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members of Parliament for their contributions and questions. I'd like to say a few things in advance. It has been a subject of discussion in this Chamber for some time now, but also in previous Cabinets. I would like to recall the overall vision of the legal status of political ministers from 2015. It stressed the importance of a coherent legal position for political officials. That legal position is really very important. In fact, Mrs Bromet has just said that the quality of public administration and the functioning of our democracy have already been discussed. Those legal claims should ensure that people, Dutch, citizens, are and remain available for political functions. The starting point of this integrated vision is that the working conditions of political ministers are, in principle, as much as possible in line with those of employees. But the special position, because of the state-law relations, means that working conditions sometimes have to be in a special form in line with those of employees, so where it can be done. But sometimes it concerns customized working conditions, so where it has to be. It seems to me that the advisory board is going to advise on these different conditions of employment in relation to that particular state-of-the-art position of political ministers. It is therefore an advisory body which can take account of the particular circumstances arising from the administrative context of that political or administrative function. This concerns, for example, the rule of trust or the absence of an employment-law authority relationship between employer and employee. Nor do political ministers have an individual, nor a collective, working conditions consultation, nor is there a collective agreement. The legal status is always enshrined unilaterally in laws and regulations, and this requires careful implementation. Following the vision drawn up in 2015, the Committee discussed the desirability of a permanent advisory body. This desire arose from the observation and also from experience that decision-making on the legal status of political officials can be a difficult process. I often heard the word "uncomfortable" fall here this afternoon. That is, of course, because there is a very understandable reluctance. There is a reluctance on the part of the cabinet and a reluctance on the part of the Chamber to decide on their own legal position, especially when it comes to their own remuneration. The proposal is, of course, not just about pay, but there is a reluctance. It feels like a proverbial butcher who has to approve his own flesh. It therefore seems helpful to me that this political decision-making is fed by an authoritative, external, independent, non-political advisory body, which can make a depoliticized assessment of that level of claim. Not only the cabinet, but also IPO, VNG, Union of Water Councils, all professional groups of decentralised political ministers. They all advocate having an independent third party advise on their working conditions. They think with me that this is a good way to improve that somewhat difficult process, or actually objectify it. The establishment of the advisory college in itself does not change the primacy of politics. That just stays full. In the end, it is up to the government and the parliament to give Parliament the final say, because that determines whether the opinion is followed or whether it is transposed into legislation. This is decided by the legislator, not by the advisory board. As I said about the scope of the advisory board, it concerns the benefits claims, pensions, provisions and remuneration of all the various ministers, i.e. the government, the provinces, the municipalities, the water boards. The Advisory College is governed by the Framework Law Advisory Colleges. I say all of this with some emphasis because it seemed to be somewhat tending in the debate to the salaries of those present here. But it's clearly much more than that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions that have just been asked. I'll start with Mrs Leijten. She said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u69	Before you do that, Mrs Leijten already has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u70	The Minister stresses here that these are "but" lectures. But what scale do they get for their work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u71	None. Of course, Mrs Leijten said this herself: it is a fixed fee per meeting. That's not a scaling-up. Members of the College do not receive any remuneration for membership as such, but receive it for a meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u72	No, I was talking about the law that sees committees and advisory boards. It is true that a normative scale has been laid down by ministerial regulation which determines what people receive for their advice. I have often asked questions about this, for which ambassador, quartermaster or whatever else was needed, whether it was at VWS or Finance. What do these people get? What scale does that say? The Minister has to know that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u73	Yes, but I thought we were talking about this proposal. You're asking about the advisory board. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u74	That's consistent, according to the law, the law advisory colleges. There's a bowl in there. It takes into account what they get for their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u75	The proposal is to avoid that discussion altogether and to say that this is not a membership that guarantees you a fixed income, but this is a membership of a permanent advisory college that may have very little work, or perhaps very little work, and for which you will only get a refund if there is a meeting with the aim of providing advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u76	Okay. So the step back that I took was: how did we deal with these advisory classes? Because that's what the minister did. We've already arranged that in laws. I wanted to make the point that in that law, which oversees the advisory committees and all of them, it says that it is scale 18 and that scale 18 is quite high. That's not what you get when you open the door or pour coffee for people. So that's already done exorbitantly well. This is probably €300 per meeting. I think that's pretty high. Let me ask the Minister straight away: if these are such excellent, independent people without any relationship to politics, then they can do so very honorably.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u77	Yeah, I heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u78	There's an amendment, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u79	I have heard Mrs Leijten say: people should just do it for no reason. I am not in favour of that. On the contrary, I have made a proposal which leads to maximum austerity: no compensation for membership as such. But it is perfectly normal to set a fee per meeting against this, because this is also the case for these people to make time available for that meeting. That doesn't mean anything about what kind of function these people have in everyday life. That can also very well be the tram driver, which Mrs Leijten just asked about. A fee per meeting is already sober. I do think that's just what you hear when you make your time, knowledge and expertise available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u80	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u81	Get $300 per meeting... I think people who look at this really fall off their seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u82	I don't think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u83	Yeah, the elite who's watching this is gonna think this is shit. They don't get out of bed for that. But do you know what the family care compliment has been for years for people who were available 24 hours a day for their partner or child? €250 a year! That has been abolished, for it was 'too expensive'. Then the Minister dares to say here: I think it is only logical that you give that compensation. If it weren't for this to be the elite that takes care of the elite, then it couldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u84	You have tabled an amendment to that effect. I think the Minister will give an opinion on that later. Minister, please continue answering your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u85	Can I say that Mrs Leijten is, of course, an asset to this committee? I was already very fond of her predecessor, Mr Van Raak. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Leijten's questions in her first term. She actually said that this consultative college is superfluous, because this is simply the work that the Chamber can do very well on its own. I heard the other spokesmen say something about that too. I said something about that in my introduction. There is a certain reluctance, even in your Chamber, to talk about this kind of thing. This could also lead to a lack of discussion. It is not just about the level of the salary and the remuneration; it is about a lot more things than that. It's about retirement, about leave options, about expenses, like accommodation expenses, and it could be about the WIA. It's about a lot of things that now sometimes pop up. We are going to talk about it for a moment, and then we are actually going to let go of the subject as soon as possible. I think it is important that there is a committee, an external, independent committee of experts, which can help to ensure that there is good and careful decision-making, precisely on these issues. They're important topics. Take, for example, the job application obligation, the duration of benefits, the guidance on reintegration. These are all important points for the attractiveness of the office of representative of the people, to name but one example, but also for the people themselves, the people who are now in this Chamber and for our predecessors in the various positions. We want people in politics. We would like to have people from ordinary life in administrative positions, but then it is not unreasonable that we also carefully weigh what conditions are attached to them; therefore an advisory board. Once again, that is not to take over the work, because that is in the end just the legislator. Then I come to the question of why it would be a good idea, if it was not found to be a good idea 17 years ago. Seventeen years ago, the cabinet adopted the opinion on that advisory board. 17 years ago, a bill was made of that too. Eventually, it wasn't filed. But there has never been a good substantive discussion, because the non-submission was simply linked to the economic crisis and not to its desirability or undesirableness. That discussion was never held, because at the time when the cabinet at the time wanted to take that step, the banking crisis broke out and was put aside because of other priorities; quite understandable by the way. I think that an advisory college that can really set up topics, which is independent and can give a depoliticized judgment, when it was a good idea and now is a better time for that than it was then, in retrospect, turned out to be. We have already said a few things about compensation. Then I would like to answer Mrs Bromet's question. She asked about the relaxation of leave in case of illness. I have also received a letter from council members on this subject in order to make the leave arrangements more flexible. Perhaps Mrs Bromet saw that letter, because I believe that the Chamber also received that letter. The request concerns the extension of leave and the 16-week period, which Mrs Bromet also mentioned. We have laid down in our Constitution the reason for the leave of absence for elected representatives. It limits the leave to illness and pregnancy. These are the two reasons set out in the Constitution. What applies to council members also applies to other representatives of the people, such as MPs and Member States. The length of leave of 16 weeks is in line with the usual duration of maternity leave. These are two completely different things, as most people in this Chamber know and understand very well. But that is the reason for the duration of 16 weeks. I'll answer the councilman's letter. I propose that I share that answer with the Chamber. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Sneller. He had a whole series of them. First of all, the question of why senior officials are not included in this advisory task. I hope I understood his question correctly, but I actually understood him in such a way that he said: Dijkstal took the salary of top officials back in 2004. That was really included in the title of that committee at the time. And after delivering the first opinion on, among other things, the remuneration of top officials, the committee began to focus on the legal status of political officials. The task of the committee to be set up also includes the members of the High Colleges of State. Well, by now, the Law standardizing legal status of civil servants is, of course, in force. We don't really know any better, I'd almost say. The conditions of employment of officials shall no longer be fixed unilaterally. So, of course, a lot has changed since then. You would say: they are basically standardized working conditions - or industrial relations, I must say. It would therefore be crazy to include the working conditions of top officials in this advisory task. So that's why they didn't take it. Then there is his question about the permanent nature of the consultative college. He said he wasn't quite convinced of that yet. I'm gonna try to convince him of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u86	Yeah, I get that development, and the choice to make that turn. Dijkstal indeed advised that that advisory board should also deal with this issue. That is indeed a relevant change, and I should have known that or should have known that. "Why not the High Colleges of State?', was the question I also asked in this target group definition, because it contains some of the same discussions. The argument is the same for some of those High Colleges, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u87	Yeah, but some of those High Colleges, of course, are just under the same rules as the officials. That depends a little on the type of High College. But that's why I didn't bring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u88	But also for the college members, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u90	I understand from the officials who work there, but the sensitivity is often in that too that those who sit in the college are political appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u91	Can I come back to that later? I'll take this down for the second term, Mr. Chairman. The permanent nature of the advisory college. A number of reasons. What you'd say if you didn't expect it to be a real full-time job to deliver this kind of advice: why can't we have an opportunity to ask a committee to consider specific questions? Well, experience has it that, if you have a permanent advisory college, it's actually more effective. Because then there is always a club people who, if a question arises, can also be enabled immediately to answer that question. So there's no time wasted on ad hoc appointment of an advisory college, because that takes a lot of time; you have to adjust and discuss it, so a lot of time goes by. The second argument is that a permanent advisory college is set up by law. And that also gives this Chamber, the Parliament, the room to be involved in the framework conditions set for the advisory board. Mr Bishop has just made a comment on this, and I shall come back to that in a moment. So I think it has that advantage, too, so that we can have that debate with each other now. A great advantage is also that the Chamber can ask a permanent advisory board for an opinion. That's not the case with a temporary advisory college. Finally, and I think this is a good point myself, there is the argument that a permanent advisory body can also deliver that opinion on its own initiative, i.e. unsolicited. This cannot, of course, be done by definition at a consultative college which does not exist, at least only when there is an issue. So I think that a permanent consultative college would be better able to respond to questions that arise here, that occur in society, that occur in another or co-government. And you're actually creating an independent agency, which also operates completely independently of the cabinet. So I think it's wise to give it that permanent character. This will also allow you to see a little bit of advice and moments when those advices will have to come on issues that play, and when an unsolicited opinion will be issued. There will then be this practice that I expect a little bit, that an opinion will be delivered at least once every four years. And also in the direction of the fellow governments it thus creates that space. And if the College has established itself, it will, of course, also create or build an institutional memory for the committee members and for the support. I think that is important, because it concerns a complex subject, the legal position of officials. That's why it's useful to do it like this, I guess. I hope that will convince Mr Sneller. We've really thought this through. This is why the choice has been made on that permanent character.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u92	Mr Sneller has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u93	The ability to act is in itself an understandable argument, as is an institutional memory. But then I look at the way it's designed now. We pull out a ton a year. That's for secretariat, research costs and some material costs. There is not going to be a staff that actually has that institutional memory. I'm still trying to connect the design to the function. I do not quite see that these elements are also supported by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u94	So what you don't get is what you can imagine at, let's say, state committees. We've had the Remkes Committee. That report, of course, has eternity value, not of that, but has been completed with it. If there are new questions again, a new committee should be set up, which should actually do everything again. The idea behind this is that this is not the case, because the advisory board is permanent and will issue an opinion every now and then. We do not know exactly what frequency that will happen, but with that you will create continuity. It's small-scale indeed. Of course, it's not a huge club, but I don't think that's necessary either. I think we're anchoring that continuity with that. I would like to return to Mr Sneller's comment on the High Colleges of State. In any case, the Ombudsman, the Council of State and the General Court do not, in fact, apply to official support, but to members. This advisory board can therefore advise on this. Could we put it in an existing organization? That was another question from Mr Sneller. I think that's tricky. Of course, we've thought about that. Is there an agency close to this? You'll think first of all about the Board of Public Administration. It focuses on the administrative and financial organisation of the public administration in the Netherlands, but these are questions of a very different order. They are often more strategic issues, whether it is really about the finances, about the financial establishment and about the administrative relations between, for example, the different levels of government. They do not really have any role in it and therefore have no expertise relating to the conditions of employment of political ministers as individuals. It's the only place I could think of where it might be. At the same time, I have actually written it off again, because it has a completely different purpose. It would really be a very strange new task for the Public Administration Board. It should also be completely separate from the Council as it is now set up, because it does not meet on many conditions, such as the independence and background of its members. I'll get back to you on that. In other words, it seemed better to make it a new and independent advisory body. Then Mr Sneller asked, a little along the line, for attention to the scale, because this is going to be small-scale. Of course, there are other consultative lectures that are much more extensive, but it also depends a little on the nature of the work. The fourth evaluation of the Framework Law Advisory Colleges...................................................................................................................................................................... They also address more parties than the parliament and the cabinet. They make different advisory products. They make all kinds of evaluations. That's really wide. Of course, you also have smaller, really specific, technical-specialistic advisory colleges. They don't, or they don't. Improvements have been made since 2015, because it is important that the smaller advisory colleges build up the knowledge and expertise that Mr Sneller and I have just talked about, and make them as transparent as possible. Then Mr Sneller asked whether there could be situations on which you would like to have interim advice, not, as I have just outlined, a periodic opinion, and not an unsolicited opinion, but an opinion on an issue that arises. I think that these subjects come up very often. These are also subjects that often lead to parliamentary questions. That's actually why I think the advisory board has real added value. Then it's not so clever that, when something comes up, the minister comes to the Chamber, who answers as well as possible, and then we forget it all again. 'Cause that's not good. The subsistence allowance of members of the Lower House has been such a subject that occurred. There was a lack of clarity about the concept of "dwelling." What exactly did you have to pay for the accommodation fee? It also turned out to be considered differently. There has been some intense discussion about it for a while, including in the media. In the end, it wasn't so much done with it. I think that this is one of those subjects. There are others to think of which such a consultative board could work on. This leads to objective and expert advice. We can then look at this together and ask ourselves whether or not there should be an adjustment. Mr. Chairman. D66 and the VVD made a suggestion. You're looking at who could join such an advisory college in the front. The suggestion was whether you shouldn't also say that members of this advisory college couldn't hold political office. I thought it was an original thought, of some sort of cooling-off period. But I think it's very difficult. We have the right to stand as a candidate. We do not actually deprive people of that, except in very exceptional cases where something very bad is going on. So I don't see how you could materialize that. I honestly don't know if it's necessary either. I don't think the risk of conflict of interest is that great. So I do not think that cooling-off period is really necessary either. But I am also simply referring to practical and legal objections to this. Then check-and-balances. The Sneller/Den Boer motion states that it is essential for the future stability of the democratic rule of law to ensure adequate checks-and-balances in appointment procedures of all democratic institutions. That is why the motion asked us to take a closer look at it. In response to that motion, we said that in the forthcoming evaluation there will be particular attention to appointment procedures, in the framework law Zbo's and in the framework law advisory colleges. The appointment procedure for this advisory college shall be carried out in accordance with the Framework Law Advisory Colleges. Should the evaluation of that appointment procedure give rise to amendments to the Framework Act, that amendment shall also affect the appointment procedure of this Advisory College.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u95	I have a question about who are all appointed to advisory boards. How does the Minister view this? Is that a reflection of our society, or is that a reflection of a specific, exclusive part of our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u96	I think Mrs Leijten is asking in general, so not specifically for this advisory body. I do not think it can always be a reflection of society, although of course it must be the aim. In general, I think we are trying to describe what expertise is actually needed for an advisory college. Then we'll see how you can give people a chance to, if they consider themselves suitable for that, join such an advisory college. Of course, we also have to take into account, for example, male/female, young/old and cultural backgrounds. In that sense you try to make them a reflection of society, but it depends a little on the type of advisory college to what extent that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u97	You mentioned the framework laws, in the sense that if the framework law changes, the composition of the advisory body will also change. That is why I am asking these general questions. When it comes to the expertise needed for an advisory college, who decides what the expertise should be? Is that the one who gets the advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u98	That also depends on it. Mrs Leijten is asking for it in a very general way. So maybe she can make it more specific. I can answer that question about this advisory college. As far as other consultative colleges are concerned, if it is a consultative college that the cabinet will set up, it will often be the case that the minister who makes that proposal will also determine how the reflection is and what expertise is needed, but he will also have to make a proposal to the Council of Ministers who will then have to agree to it and who will, of course, look at it in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u99	The way I look at it is that the elite organises an advisory college, which is going to give an opinion from the elite about its own elite. Then the elite here, this Chamber, or all the political authorities can say: but it is an independent opinion, we did not ask for it ourselves. It's about the credibility of this. My question to the Minister is as follows. Isn't the discussion within our society right at the moment when you make room for different compositions with striking perspectives from perhaps other disciplines, like ordinary people from the population, you will come to much better advice and a much better representation? When it comes to the issue of why politics is not attractive enough to participate in, do you come to an answer much more when you ask other people for advice? Can the Minister follow that line of thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u100	Fortunately, we don't just need advisory colleges for that. I think that Mrs Leijten is very concerned about the debate, but fortunately this is the task of the representative of the people, in fact at all levels of our society, of city council members, of statesmen, of the representative of the people here in The Hague. If I am to be advised as a minister, I will do so by very expert officials, by listening to committees and by listening in to society by going to work. I have argued throughout my presidency that we should do as much as possible to involve people at the front of the decision-making process. So there are many ways to ensure what Mrs Leijten thinks is so important. I agree with her that it should be taken into account in advisory committees, but fortunately that is not the only thing we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u101	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u102	In the first term of the Chamber it was said that I was flat and connected things that were not allowed. I would have even called people pocket fillers, which I didn't do, by the way. I have discussed the gap and also the inconvenience as Mr Bishop discussed it, in order to talk about his own salary. And that is exactly what this debate is about. The uncomfortableness is deeper. We set up an advisory college to look at the fees on a market basis. Then what is market-oriented and who is on the advisory committee? It is not the ordinary people we represent that sits on that advisory committee, but people sit down with expertise. What expertise? We're not really gonna get an answer to that. And I find that unhealthy, and so I asked those general questions to the Minister to show that an advisory board about yourself and your own salary is actually very substantive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u103	Two comments on this. Firstly, Mrs Leijten keeps saying that this advisory board is only about the remuneration. That's not true. At the beginning, I gave a detailed list of issues that are relevant. Secondly, Mrs Leijten is uniting the debate into a gap which she has identified between the elite who seem to be sitting in this room and the ordinary people who are not sitting here. In doing so, of course, it does not do justice to its own task of being a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u104	Mrs Leijten, I really give you a lot of space in this debate. So I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u105	The rest of you stay put and don't give a shit, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond to this. A number of issues in the Court's legal position have changed in recent years. That was always a political debate and often on the initiative of the Chamber. For example, the waiting money scheme has been undressed under pressure from the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u106	Your point, Mrs Leijten!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u107	That's how we got a leave of absence from illness and pregnancy because we went along with our time. We didn't need an advisory college for that. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u108	Thank you. And the Minister continues with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u109	Yes, thank you. Mr Sneller then asked who would be joining the consultative college. Mrs Leijten also has an opinion on this. The proposal is that the advisory college should be composed of five members. That includes the chairman. The chairman is one of five. The recruitment of members of this advisory college will need to look for people who have experience, who are competent in the field of public administration and who have knowledge of the legal status and remuneration relationships of the public authorities, but also in relation to the market sectors. It will be ensured that they have a varied background and that they have a sense of social relations. The members may come from the group of former representatives and former directors, but they may also come from bodies of employers and employees, industry and science. It's all possible. By the way, we will always strive for at least two female members and at least one member with a non-Western background. But that goes without saying, because that is also in line with the Framework Law advisory committees. Mr De Kort drew the comparison with other countries. Indeed, there are many countries in which positive experiences have been gained with independent advisory colleges. He already mentioned the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada. I think that we can also learn from this that such a consultative body can really help in dealing with issues relating to the legal status of political ministers. We have been most inspired by the United Kingdom, although the Dutch variant actually has a broader task, because it focuses on all political ministers. That is a little more limited in the UK. That is the House of Commons, the House of Lords and the Ministers. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this is also an amendment by Mr De Kort to accept former political ministers as a member of the consultative college only two years after the resignation. We have taken the independent position as a starting point in the legislative proposal, because this independence requires a distance from politics. You're supposed to be in that class without any trouble. So you cannot have other relationships that are incompatible with that. The proposal of the VVD Group strengthens that independent position of the College even further by providing that former political ministers can only be appointed to the College after two years. I could explain that as an improvement. This underlines the importance we attach to it. The amendment talks about two years. Well, what do you choose? Do you say "recent" or "not recently"? But then the question is, what exactly is "recent"? Mrs Van Dijk made that suggestion. So I think it would be wise if the House were to think a little that way and then go along with Mr De Kort's proposal and then put it to two years. Then there is the question of compensation for the members of the State. That has been a topical issue for some time now. Mr Bishop and Mrs Van Dijk spoke about this. I have been talking about this for some time now, including with people who are wondering whether that is something that is left behind. Recent research has been conducted by the Home Office. This shows that the relatively low financial compensation and workload are important reasons why one in five Member States will not return after the next elections. That investigation is there. We know that now. The Dutch Association for State Members is actively working on this. I informed this Chamber in June 2020 of the results of an earlier investigation commissioned by BZK. My proposal was to submit it to the new advisory board. Mr Bishop said: we know that now, why would we ask for an opinion again? We do have material, such as an SEO study that recommends that the remuneration of the members of the State, I quote, be "one time adjusted and brought into line with, among other things, the increased gravity of the task'. Of course, that leaves a few questions open, because exactly how high? And if you do that for members of state, does that affect other representatives of the people? So it seemed useful to me to ask that college for advice on this point, knowing that it does indeed have the attention of IPO and the Dutch Association of State Members. Hence my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u110	I could imagine this line very well if the problem had been relatively recent. But we have to be honest: at least for 15 years, for almost 20 years, this has been above the market and it has already been established that compensation for members of the State is not in line. I already outlined that that hot potato has, as it were, been transferred over and over again to the next minister. I think it would be decisive if the Minister said: okay, we're going for the advisory committee, but in the meantime this is so obvious that I'm going to talk to IPO to make a move. Then I think the Minister is just in time for the state elections. We'll have to take a look at that, too. It is also about the quality of public administration. The Minister is right to underline that. We must guard and cherish them. I challenge the Minister: please, do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u111	Thank you for that challenge. I also consider the state elections to be very relevant. I understand that Mr Bishop says: trade now, so that it is settled on the way to the next period for the members of the State. In my opinion, the intermediate step is still quite possible, if at least within a reasonable time, to get the answer to the question I just asked: if it is to go up a bit, how far then and what does it have to do with any consequences? Moreover, money must of course also be provided for, or I must tell IPO that they will have to finance it themselves. Of course you can. I can assure Mr Bishop that I will start the discussion with IPO on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u112	Thank you. Can I conclude from this that if IPO says that this can be arranged and a provisional step can be taken in the short term, after which the final outcome will be through the committee, the Minister is prepared to cooperate fully? Is that a fair conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u113	If IPO also comes up with a proposal on how we could do that, I am in favour of this and I would like to cooperate with you on this. But I do not want to raise expectations here or make commitments towards the members of the States that I cannot live up to. My commitment is to enter into the conversation and to look at the proposals of IPO itself with a positive basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u114	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u115	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions; I'm almost through, you know. Mr Bishop felt that there was not really a very clear task for the College. He thought it was very open-minded. It does not, for example, contain any information on which topics to advise, but the legislative proposal does include a broad task. This is an advisory body which advises on the financial status of political officials. In those words there is indeed a task. This is the domain on which the advisory board can advise. Inside there is room for him to be asked by your Chamber, by the Cabinet or by others to advise and unsolicited on the basis of his own ideas or matters that arise in society. Finally, Mr Bishop raised the question of support for the representative of the people. He mentioned that as a topical issue. Indeed, we have talked about this a lot lately. I also think that support for representatives of the people is important, not only for members of parliament, but also for council members and others, but it is an aspect which this advisory body does not see as important. It is really about the financial status and not about whether or not it is sufficient to support Members of Parliament and others. This is an important subject, but not for this advisory college.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u116	Did you come to the end of your reply with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u117	Yes, Mr. Chairman, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u118	I shall suspend for one minute so that Mrs Leijten can prepare for her second term. I'll take a look at the other members. Is there a need for a second term? Very small? That would be nice, I'm just looking at the time for the next debate. Then we'll move on quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u119	We're gonna start again. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP for her second term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u120	Mr. Chairman. In particular, Mrs Leijten had to understand that the consultative board was far more concerned than just the remuneration. The Minister concluded: it is, of course, about the financial status of political officials. Of course, we know exactly what this is about. It quacks like a duck, it waddles like a duck and then we just call it a duck. For me it is a bit like the elite to create an advisory committee for the elite, so that they can sit and advise on their own position for a long time. I think that's unhealthy. If the Minister says that is not the intention, then she can fully embrace my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an advisory committee should advise on the remuneration of political officials and that this should be "market-compliant";]] [[believes that the administrative and political elite in our country is far too far from reality and that the generous remuneration plays a role in this;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that market-based implementation of the remuneration of political officials will always reflect on the people who do the work in public sectors, not the top executive, but the performers of primary processes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35530-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u121	I'm assuming this is just embraced. This is indeed a question of financial compensation. I would like to say this to Mr Bishop. He says that members of State, who receive a fee almost €1,300 per month for one day meetings, would get too little. I wonder what kind of reflection that is. If we decentralise too many tasks to other authority, let us discuss whether compensation is included. Do we want something like local and provincial representatives who, like us, become full-time professional politicians? I do not think that is good for the attractiveness of being a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u122	Of course, a question from Mrs Leijten deserves a correct answer. I refer only to the report of SEO Economic Research. That is the case, always in relation to other administrative bodies. I think we should just take this signal seriously. That's not my personal opinion; I'm heading for that kind of information. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u123	Mrs Leijten, a brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u124	Here you can see exactly what I said in the first term. We have enough information to make decisions. Put forward a decision and then a debate will take place on whether we think it is too high or correct. If we hide behind committees, we get a lot of advice with which we wipe our butt or take it seriously if we like it. I can continue to list the list of advisory committees we have had over the past four, eight or twelve years, which has not been dealt with. There are all kinds of high-ranking people with all kinds of fees...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u125	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u126	... of scale 18 sat in and nothing was done with it. Here lies the political primacy. This is where we should do it. Then we should have the debate on whether we believe that the political compensation is sufficient. Is that true for ourselves? Then we'll talk about the members of the States.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u127	Mr Bishop, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u128	This illustrates exactly why such a committee is needed. If such an investigation indicates that the fee for members of the State is relatively low, then it is not up to the Chamber to say: okay, so much more. No, then you want a committee to come up with a proposal in relation to other bodies. Then you can punch that in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u129	Oh, so all we have to do is sign at the cross if there's been an advisory committee? Does that also apply to nitrogen committees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u130	I have the impression that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u131	Does this also apply to committees that say something about access to schools? Then I think the SGP wants to make a political assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u132	Mrs Leijten, I have the impression that I have followed the substance of the matter. Mr. Bishop, I understand you're feeling challenged, but I don't think there can be any new elements in your answer. One final sentence and I would like to see Mr Sneller for his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u133	I could try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u134	Very briefly, because it is a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u135	A formal decision cannot be taken by a committee. So you're gonna have to do it yourself. So you will have to take a critical look at whether you can get enough out of the way with that advice. The SP probably doesn't, the SGP probably does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u136	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u137	I see setting up a committee as a way of organizing your political task. I like to engage in the political debate. If that requires research, for comparison, that's fine with me. But as I have just said, the list of advisory committees, committees and wise people who have figured out something that nothing, nakse, nada has been done with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u139	It's too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u140	I want to see Mr. Faster. Mrs. Bromet doesn't want a second term. Exactly. Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u141	Last week I had such a nice debate about how important that opinion of the Van der Meer committee was and how it seems that it is going to be. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I just need to chew on a few things. I understand what she is saying about the importance of institutional memory and an effective college. At the same time, for me, that reasoning goes on to house an institution with a little more power of its own. I also understand the substantive argument why the Public Administration Council is not entirely logical. At the same time, I do see similarities there. This also applies to the periodic versus requested and unsolicited advice. Perhaps my confusion is also that the paragraph on the financial consequences states: at least once per cabinet period. On my question, "When does the Minister expect unsolicited advice?', She says "well, actually very often." I also understand the example she gives. That is what we discussed with the estimates. It is simply a complicated point, which could indeed provide an interesting advice from such a consultative body. But it is a bit difficult, if the Minister understands what I mean: is it getting sporadic or is it getting very often? Then the cooling-off period. In the case of the ban on lobbying, it was also designed in a way that did not impose the duty on the political minister, but laid down the responsibility of the government for what would then be the consequence. So I just need to think about that. I welcome what the Minister said about adapting the framework law and that this review indeed looks into it. I think there is nothing to prevent the noises in this debate on composition from getting involved in proposing Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u142	Thank you. I am looking at Mr De Kort. No contribution. Mrs. Van Dijk? No. Mr Bishop, finally. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to two matters. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Secondly, I should like to make a motion to underline the last commitment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas compensation for representatives of the people should be fixed in a consistent manner;]] [[noting that according to SEO's report, the remuneration of members of State is low and a one-off increase is obvious, as the remuneration for members of State is lower than that of council members in smaller municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government, in conjunction with the Interprovincial Consultation, to make a one-off increase in the remuneration of members of the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35530-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u145	Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u146	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall deal with the two motions for resolutions and some of the issues raised. First of all, Mrs Leijten. She thinks she caught me thinking that it was only about salaries, but I didn't say that. I have said that the financial situation is far more important than salaries. I do not want to repeat the debate, but I would like to make that point. Then I would like to comment on her motion on part No. 9. It asks that there will always be a reflection between the market-based interpretation on the one hand and those doing work in public sectors on the other. I understand her philosophy, but it is certainly not for this consultative body, but not in general, not so that there is a market-based remuneration, at least not the market Mrs Leijten is thinking of. She's now mirroring it as if it's all very high fees. Take the proposal for a fee of €300 per meeting. The framework law states that if you choose a fixed amount per meeting, which is a percentage of a salary on a scale of 18-level. But that can also be a very low percentage. In any case, it can be up to 3% of scale 18. We have chosen €300. That's a lot lower. This requires a separate decision that you make per specific situation, per consultative college. We're not gonna sit here at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u148	So the motion in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u149	Dissuade, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u150	Mrs Leijten would like to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u151	The minister just doesn't know what I mean. That is exactly what this debate is all about. It states that at the time when advice is given on market-based remuneration policies or the financial status of political officials, who must be mirrored by ordinary people working in crucial professions. That's what it says right here. It doesn't say anything about the advisory board. I don't think there should be any of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u152	I would point out to Mrs Leijten that there is a framework law that also says something about the fees that are being paid. There the option is given to opt for a fee per meeting. The framework law states that in that case it is a percentage of scale 18, but that does not mean that it is also equal to a percentage of scale 18. There are choices to be made. We have made the choice here for €300 per meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u153	I've been walking this for a long time. On the question of compensation for the people who are going to sit on that advisory committee, I said 'no'. I'm not going to table another motion on that. This is about the advice they're giving. That's what that says... That is what the Minister thinks should be asked: that the financial status of political officials should be taken into account on a market-based basis. Market consistent with who? This is what I would like to point out with this motion: people working in the public sector, not top executives in the public sector, but people in the primary process of the public sector. That's what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u154	I believe the Minister understands that, but simply does not agree with you. At least, that's how I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u155	The Minister refers to the Framework Law Advisory Colleges. This is about the advice they give.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u156	The good news is that Mrs Leijten seems to accept that there should be an advisory body. I understand that, as far as she is concerned, the advisory board should not have very high salaries in certain markets. In all honesty, I wouldn't expect that from the advisory board either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u157	Mrs. Leijten, your motion is not recommended. Just a brief comment and then we'll continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u158	I simply note that the Minister did not even know at first what my motion was about and that she is now saying a little bit: oh, Mrs Leijten has accepted it. Mrs. Leijten can count here. We'll be here in a year's time with a "market-compliant" advice. In my opinion, then, as a Chamber, we should indicate what is market-oriented. We are representatives of the people. We are in the service of the people. Then it is market-based what they deserve in crucial professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u159	I really confine myself to correcting factual inaccuracies. Mrs Leijten may point out to me where she has read that this advisory body will come up with market-based advice. That doesn't say anything at all, so at this point, too, I'd like to take away that fear. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions or, in fact, Mr Sneller's comments. They weren't questions; he shared his thoughts with us. I won't repeat what I just said, but the Public Administration Council really has a different job. I'd find it a strange duck in the bite. I consider the Public Administration Council to be an important body, but not equipped for this. Then it would really be something completely new for them. When we get to work, I'd rather have a new advisory college that is independent and where you can take their background into account when appointing the people. For example, the current composition of the Public Administration Council is not entirely in keeping with what we have just discussed. In any case, I am grateful to him that he is going to give some thought to all these points. About asking and unsolicited. My expectation is that there will be an opinion at least once every four years. It is true that this is at the end of a cabinet period, in other words, on the way to a formation and a new cabinet period. Of course, I am afraid to predict how often unsolicited advice will come. If you look back on the past few years, there have been three, four, five moments that we think the advisory board would have taken action on its own, or for example your Chamber or one of the other governments would have actively looked up the advisory board. I do not think it is a consultative college that will confine itself to that once every four years. I expect that, at least in the first period, let's say the first two cabinet periods to take a logical period, the advisory board would be able to separate advice quite often. Finally, Mr Bishop's motion. I think it is nice that he even tabled a motion on it. He lets us know how important he thinks the position of the members of the States is and how worried he is. Not only Mr Bishop, but others, of course, are concerned about the signal that members of the State really are considering one out of five members, among other things, because of the remuneration, but also because of the workload not to stand up for a new period after the next elections. I'm worried about that, too. I have already made a commitment in the debate to at least have that consultation with the IPO. That's what his motion says. But his motion speaks of an obligation to achieve results. It says that the government must proceed with that increase. That's exactly where I just drew a line, but not because I don't want to. Again, I like it. I have achieved, for example, an increase in the remuneration for members of local councils of small municipalities in the past period. So I can really imagine. But it must be properly regulated, including through budgetary rules. That money must come either from here or from the provinces themselves. This is also the subject of budgetary rules. Since I want to do so so carefully, I must nevertheless discourage the motion in this form. But the promise I made stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u160	I just wanted to ask you a few more questions. Two amendments have been tabled, tabled by Mrs Leijten and Mr De Kort. Although they have already been dealt with in substance, they still need to be judged by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u161	Yeah, I'm sorry. I didn't do that. I must advise against Mrs Leijten's amendment. Mr De Kort's amendment, I am happy to give a ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u162	Thank you. Then we are with this... I see Mrs. Leijten. What a surprise. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u163	The Minister says: I only point out the facts. When it comes to the financial status of political officials, it does not say that the advisory body should review them on a market-based basis, but that it should keep track of market developments. Then let's keep it completely clean. I'll amend my motion as well. What I am saying is that it is about the developments for the people who are doing the work in what the crucial professions are going to be called, not that the chattering elite once again advises on the market part of the salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u164	So you're still adjusting your motion, I understand. Thanks for that. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-24.u165	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. The motions and the amendments tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes. Then we'll come up with a plan... and count with me for a moment... 7:20 p.m.
