ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35242, Amendment of the Act on Intelligence and Security Services 2017. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current amendment to the Act on Intelligence and Security Services 2017, abbreviated the Wiv 2017, focuses on the inclusion of some policy rules in the law, which the Minister introduced in 2018 in response to the consultative referendum on this law. A referendum in which most of the voters rejected this law. Instead of repealing this bill in accordance with Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act, Minister Ollongren felt that it was necessary to introduce the law anyway and to add, as a concession to the counter-voters, an insert with policy rules, without amending any letter to the law itself. Instead, the Minister promptly withdrew the Law on the Consultative referendum, in order to place the citizen's influence in the coarse dirt, in the separate waste container specifically intended for the D66 crown jewels. Minister Ollongren was even in such a hurry to introduce the Wiv 2017 rejected by the Dutch voters, which now shows that the services themselves could not even make it strong. For example, on page 5 of her further reply, the Minister states: "Afterwards, the implementation of the Wiv 2017 has not been adequately addressed and its consequences for the services'. And that, while, especially with regard to state security, as important organisations as the security services, and especially with regard to laws that can have far-reaching consequences for the privacy and privacy of citizens, care must always be taken! Can the Minister explain why he has dealt so casually with the implementation of this law and the implications for the services? The recommendations of the report of the Wiv 2017 evaluation committee will not be discussed here today, as they will be discussed in the next legislative amendment of the Wiv. But there are some important observations made in that report, which relate to today's law. The possibility of cable interception, the so-called towing network, has not been used by the services since the introduction of the law. It turned out to be a lot more complicated both technically and in terms of implementation arrangements than the Minister had foreseen. Currently, many dozens of officials are still in the process of introducing and implementing this law. Nevertheless, the law had to be introduced in 2018 with steam and boiling water from the Minister. Can the Minister explain why when this urgency was needed, when that law so far is nothing more than dead letter? Shouldn't that have been looked at more carefully, and doesn't that simply show that the critical citizens who voted against this law in a majority were right? This law should not have been introduced. I'd like a response from the Minister. The work of our services, the often excellent craftsmanship of intelligence officers in the field for the security of our country, is being thrown too gibberish by the policy of this outgoing cabinet. Instead of keeping dangers out of the door, the greatest danger is just brought in. Last week, a Dutch government delegation travelled specifically to Syria to pick up Ilham B., the IS gangster who carried on the greatest atrocities of the Islamic State. Her husband Bilal announced in poems attacks in our country. I quote: "Oh, the Netherlands, know that you will end up in our hands. Blood will flow, necks will be cut." End quote of this Bilal. And Ilham B. regards the caliphate as "a useful school." Thanks to the intelligence services, these Islamic monsters have been targeted. But instead of using this intelligence to protect the Netherlands, the cabinet is putting the Netherlands at risk by bringing them here. With such malpractice, the use of the drag law or other far-reaching powers is a waste of effort anyway. According to the website of the AIVD, the special information page on extravagants and returners, about 110 adult persons left are staying in Syria, plus at least 220 children with a Dutch link. Retrieval of these groups is mainly a link for the Netherlands. So can the Minister indicate what the far-reaching powers for the services of the Wiv 2017 add if this cabinet exposes the Netherlands so openly to the Islamic danger? I'd like a response. The last annual report of the AIVD states that jihadism is the greatest threat, but for the secret service, "conservative-Christian ideas" are suddenly highly suspicious. In the Reformatorisch Dagblad, AIVD-chief Erik Akerboom stated that these ideas are "classical views about the relationship between men and women, where father is the head of the family and collects income and mother takes care of the household and the children, and maintains Christian holidays, because they want to go back to the fifties as it were." According to the AIVD summit, Brussels sprouts are as suspicious as poison gas. Those who are not strictly in line with the sectarian-cosmopolitan D66 world view, someone who, for example, wants to sit around the Christmas tree with the family, can come into the picture with the AIVD, who tests whether it is all wok enough. To take this into account in the legislative proposal before us: what do these views of the AIVD Summit on the use of powers, on the assessment of proportionality, subsidiarity and focus? Can the Minister elaborate on that? Can it exclude that citizens with conservative-Christian ideas or, for example, protectors of our beautiful Black Piet tradition come into the picture for research mission-oriented interception, EYE, or other measures? I'd like a response. However, the great danger of Islam tackles the AIVD with velvet gloves. The AIVD spoke so far about salafism, but this would lead to "confusion of understanding," according to the Volkskrant of 10 May. De Volkskrant states: "So the Rotterdam mayor Aboutaleb confessed in 2018 that he considers himself a salafist according to the definition. Every Muslim is a bit of a salafist. He was therefore opposed to suspecting or banning Salafism, as has been argued regularly by politicians in recent years." And to meet this Islamic sensitivity, the AIVD is now kneeling down and is now using only the term "wahabi-salafism." However, both salafism and wahabi salafism are misleading terms. It is both the same Islam, with the same Koran, the same Sharia and the same prophet Muhammad. One is no less dangerous than the other. Where conservative Christians are now considered suspicious, Islam is therefore covered with the cloak of virtue. Can the Minister indicate whether this can also be done in the implementation to ensure that certain sensitivities to Islam can no longer be tested in the bulk datasets? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In response to the written round of questions, the Minister indicated that the target criterion was applied on a tailor-made basis. However, the Minister does not make it clear which specific criteria are being tested for necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. Can the Minister go into more detail on the concrete implementation of the framework for the consideration of these concepts? Furthermore, the Minister gave a further opinion poll on the views of the Dutch electorate on these legislative changes to be considered unnecessary. She thinks that the internet consultation is sufficient in advance. The PVV Group certainly does not agree with that. An internet consultation is not intended as a measure of support. The general public is not familiar with it anyway. Such consultation is nice for consultants, for lobbyists and NGOs, but it does not actively question citizens. The real, pure solution to determine whether the proposed changes meet the expectations of the opponents in the referendum is to hold a referendum on this subject again. Unfortunately, this D66 minister has deprived our citizens of the opportunity to hold another consultative referendum on this amending law by abolishing the referendum. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, this bill is a monstrosity, which certainly does not meet the opposition of the Dutch electorate, the minister is taking the vote and the cabinet is fooling around with the real dangers for our national security. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, we debated the test law and the quarantine law. We senators then received hundreds of e-mails from concerned citizens. What kind of society are we on our way to, they asked. A society in which fellow citizens must be seen as a potential danger. A society in which you have to prove your health, a kind of reversal of the burden of proof: prove that you are not guilty. Mr. Chairman. Imagine being part of a group of students who are going to follow a working group at the university. Someone comes in who no one knows. Does it come to everyone's mind these days: hey, has it been tested? Maybe someone is asking him that, but he refuses to answer that question. Does the rest of you feel uncomfortable and maybe they blame him for not getting tested? Because Minister Van Engelshoven had said on the website that students, by being tested, are "part of the solution in the fight against the pandemic." Mr. Chairman. Do we still trust our fellow citizens? Are we still assuming the innocence of our fellow citizens? Minister Van Engelshoven and the minister present here are both part of a political party which, at its creation, stood for another society, for a community of free citizens which is part of a civilised Europe, a Europe which, decades ago, established the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. That Treaty is a matter of citizens' freedom and protects their fundamental rights. That treaty is based on innocent people and not on citizens who are classified in advance as criminals, potential terrorists or are likely to be suffering from an infectious disease, until they have proven their innocence or health. That is why I feel free to put a fundamental question to the minister who is here, when we are discussing a law that follows on from the rejection, by referendum, of the so-called drag law. Mr Van Hattem also mentioned this in detail a moment ago. Mr. Chairman. Just two weeks ago, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights delivered an important ruling on the so-called bulk interception by security services. After Edward Snowden leaked that the British secret service had intercepted and analyzed the communications of millions of innocent citizens, complaints had been filed. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Justice found that the UK secret service's legal regime and action were contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR, to privacy, and to Article 10 of the ECHR, to freedom of expression, because journalists had also been investigated. I'll get to that statement in a minute. I'd like to start with a quote from a dissension opinion from one of the Grand Chamber's judges. It is dissension because the judge felt that the ruling did not go far enough and that the most fundamental question had been ignored. I quote the Portuguese judge Pinto de Albuquerque in my own, more freer translation: 'The admission of non-focused bulk interception means a fundamental change in the way we consider the prevention and investigation of crime and the work of intelligence services in Europe. Shifting the focus on a suspect that can be identified as such to treat anyone as a potential suspect, whose data should be stored, analyzed and profiled. Of course," the judge continues "could the impact of such a change on innocent people eventually be mitigated." He refers there to regulators and the abundance of restrictive rules. I continue with the quote: "But a society built on such foundations is more like a police state than a democratic society. This would be the opposite of what the Founding Fathers of Europe wanted when they signed the Treaty in 1950." Mr. Chairman. How would the founding fathers of D66 have judged this judgment of this dissident judge? Let me put the question to the Minister present here. Minister, do you agree with the Group of the Party of Animals that, prior to the question of whether we have put together a tow law and a law for bulk interception by security services, we should also ask the fundamental question whether this instrument should, as such, fit in with a society in which people's health and innocence should be envisaged? The second question. Does the Minister agree with us that it must first be demonstrated that our security services cannot do their job properly if they are not allowed to throw out a towing net and apply so-called unfocused bulk interception? Is the Minister not guilty of that answer to all those citizens who rejected the drag law in the referendum? The next question, let me put it even stronger. Can the Minister give me three examples of an important action by the AIVD or the STUDY to protect our freedom that could not have been carried out if those services had not been able to use the instrument of non-focused bulk data interception but all the other powers they have? Those other powers are many. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party attaches great importance to personal freedom and to the guarantees of fundamental rights. Can the minister of a party that is "democratic" in her name join us on this point? I would like to hear her answer to these three questions. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the ruling of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights recognises the need for bulk interception. I can't get around that. And that is why it seeks to protect citizens, especially in the safeguards which the government should legally create for more legitimate action by the services. The Court goes very far in that regard. In this context, the question arises as to whether the current law on intelligence and security services, the draft before us today and also the proposals of the evaluation committee, meets in all respects the requirements set out by the Court in this groundbreaking statement. Professor Donning, who was involved in the evaluation committee, has been in a hurry to send a note to our Chamber in which he concludes that what the evaluation committee proposes is in line with the Court's ruling. I doubt that. But it is not the place here to go into legal discussion, nor to ask the Minister at this time to state whether the current legislation and the proposal of the evaluation committee are in line with that Big Brother Watch statement. But our group seems to be self-evident that it should be properly studied, and that our Chamber is equally informed about this. Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to have an external and independent investigation conducted by a committee of experts on whether the current Wiv and the proposal of the evaluation committee meet the requirements set out by the Grand Chamber in its rulings of 25 May 2021 and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof? I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation of the draft bill before us today, the Party for Animals Group criticized the fact that the supervisory committee is a toothless committee. Only her complaints department has the power to intervene. The supervisory department may only make recommendations. Our group believes that this is incomprehensible and also contrary to the legal guarantees that we, and I hope the Minister, are present for. If the committee finds that a power has been used unlawfully by the AIVD or the STUDY, then in a rule of law the supervisory authority should have the power to require that the exercise of that power should be terminated, that ongoing investigation should be stopped and that the data unlawfully processed by the services should be deleted and destroyed? Mr. Chairman. In the Big Brother Watch case, the European Court provides firm guarantees in recital 3.61.8. The Court requires that there should be an independent supervisor, with quote "powers fortified in the competent body in addressing instances of non-compliance." Surely it cannot be that the term "power" is referring to making recommendations? By making recommendations that can be ignored, a supervisor has no legal power, no power to respond to breaches of legal safeguards. Mr. Chairman. In discussions on the powerless position of the supervisory committee, it is always noted that so far the Minister has followed the recommendations, and that is true. That's good, but if it is, what's against giving that committee power of perseverance? It doesn't matter, because the Minister has always followed the recommendations. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the question of whether the ruling in the Big Brother Watch case implies that the power of perseverance should be passed on to supervisors, a question on which the committee of experts I am referring to could also address itself, we also have the European Convention 108+. That convention has not yet been ratified by the Netherlands. Can the Minister confirm that the government is going to propose to Parliament that Convention 108+ be ratified and what period can this be expected? Article 15 of the Convention 108+ is clear. I quote. "Each party shall provide for one or more authorities to be responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of the Convention. To this end, such authorities shall have powers to issue decisions with respect to violations of the provisions of this convention and may, in particular, imposing administrative sanctions." Can the Minister confirm that the Intelligence and Security Services Act should confer on the CTIVD's Supervisory Division the same powers as those conferred on the Complaints Division in Article 124 (4)? Should the minister be obliged to carry out that supervisor's judgment? Is the Minister prepared to have a committee of experts assess whether, on the basis of Convention 108+ and/or the case law of the European Court, that supervisor, the supervisory department, should be granted perseverance power if an application of the Wiv is unlawfully assessed by it? I'm considering a motion on that point. I look forward with interest to answering my questions, and as I have said, the Group of the Party of Animals is primarily concerned with guaranteeing fundamental rights and personal freedom. I hope for the minister, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2917, brief Wiv 2017. I will also do so on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for answering the written questions in the two rounds. Today we have a plenary debate on the bill, whereas tomorrow the House of Representatives had already agreed to it exactly a year ago. The answer to the written questions took some time, but when the further reply was received on 1 April 2017, not only the report of the Wiv 2017 evaluation committee had been published, but also the cabinet had embraced the conclusions of the evaluation committee. Afterwards, an interview with the presidents of the two supervisory bodies, the TIB and the CTIVD appeared in the newspaper at the beginning of March. That interview wasn't a lie. If the proposals of the evaluation committee were taken on board in their entirety, the two supervisors considered that this would undermine the proportionality review by the TIB. While one supervisor, according to the newspaper, said that "effective supervision is currently out of the question," the other responded to the plans with "I'm not going to do this under any circumstances." Mr. Chairman. You will understand that the Committee on the Interior of this Chamber first wanted to hear from those concerned themselves what was going on before proceeding with the discussion of the present legislative proposal. A meeting was therefore held with the presidents of both supervisory bodies and the chairman of the evaluation committee and then a similar meeting with the directors of the two departments, the AIVD and the STUD. Those were very useful meetings. And yet that's not what this is about today. Possible legislative changes resulting from the evaluation will only be dealt with in a legislative proposal that is likely to reach this Chamber next year. What is ahead today is the legislative proposal on the Wiv 2017, which includes changes following the consultative referendum held in March 2018. In addition, some legislative shortcomings are corrected and a legal basis is created for the appointment of alternate members of the TIB. One comment, however, before I go into the present legislative proposal. The political groups of PvdA and GroenLinks consider well-functioning intelligence and security services to be of great importance, but they also include well-functioning supervisory bodies. What we heard from the newspaper, we were concerned. The final proposals will be discussed next year in the major amending Act on the Wiv 2017, but can the Minister reassure us that in the meantime both the services and the supervisors can work effectively? Can the Minister confirm that this is done in accordance with the legal provisions currently in force, and if the present legislative proposal is adopted in accordance with the applicable legal provisions? Mr. Chairman. As has been said, today we are talking about a more limited change to the Wiv 2017 than is likely to be expected next year. Nevertheless, this limited change is important. Following the referendum, policy rules have been drawn up which are now included in this legislative proposal. These are about focusing as far as possible on the use of special powers and on the accelerated weighting of cooperation with foreign services. If the government also sees these changes as improvements, I ask the Minister. It seems to be an open door, but it is good to note that these improvements are the result of a held referendum. After all, in the reply, the government states that the outcome of the referendum was the starting point for the proposal to tighten up this bill. If the Minister agrees with us that the changes are also improvements, she will also agree with us that referenda can have positive legislative effects. Mr. Chairman. The strengthening of the law following the referendum debate is to be welcomed. However, there are still a few questions to be asked. The new fifth paragraph of Article 26 and Article 29 (2) now lay down that the use of powers in the collection of data by the services should be as targeted as possible. That also codifies the Recourt motion, and that is a good thing. In the explanatory memorandum, page 4 also states that the requirement of orientation applies to both general and special powers. That's nice, too. However, in the report of the evaluation committee, I read on page 41 that the explanatory memorandum also contains today's legislative proposal "not enough leads to the proper application of the criterion of obtaining as targeted as possible in the case of bulk acquisition." Does this mean, I ask the Minister, that we are happy with this bill on this point with a dead sparrow? Even though the Wiv 2017 does not speak of bulk acquisition, on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum to the bill we are discussing today, it is stated that for the systematic collection of data from open sources, Article 38, and for the consultation of informants, Article 39, the services should use this competence as specifically as possible. But in particular the acquisition of bulk data via an informant is subject to a considerable lack of foreseeability. What does it mean when consulting informants "to use the power as specifically as possible"? In practice, the Royal Marechaussee provides passenger data to the AIVD on the basis of precisely this informant power. These bulk data are given structurally to the AIVD as an automated file, and the AIVD stores these bulk data. What does more generally mean a lack of foreseeability for the application of the target criterion? Mr. Chairman. In answering the questions in the written round, the subject of information sharing with a foreign service was also discussed in detail. That is a delicate issue. Therefore, proper weighting notes should be made. It weighs, among other things, the democratic embedding of the relevant foreign service, respect for human rights, professionalism and reliability of that foreign service. If these are sufficiently insured, the Dutch services can, for example, use special powers for partner services, including tap powers, also for journalists and lawyers. But then there will be an increased test of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. In addition, such an application can only be made after permission from the court in The Hague. We agree with the government. It is therefore right to exercise extreme restraint here. However, on page 7 of the further reply, it says: "If the services in the case of data acquisition encounter data related to a journalist, this data will in principle not be provided to other services." What does this mean "in principle"? Does it mean "never," or does it mean "not as a rule, but there are exceptions"? And if the latter is the case, what are the criteria under which such an exception can be decided? Mr. Chairman. On page 11 of the further statement of reply, the Minister addresses the question about the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre (LIMC) against the Chairman: not the LUMC............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The question was whether services other than the AIVD and STUDY could systematically collect data from open sources, aimed at strengthening the intelligence position of the government, as the LIMC did. The answer was that public administrations can systematically collect personal data from open sources as long as they comply with the conditions laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). This answer is not satisfactory. Meanwhile, the Minister of Defence has apologized in the Lower House because there is no legal basis for that activity of the LIMC, she said. I assume the Minister of the Interior agrees with this conclusion. How, then, can I ask the Minister that she write in the further reply that public authorities may systematically collect personal data from open sources, as long as they comply with the GDPR and the ECHR? Shouldn't there always be an explicit legal basis for this? Through the Wiv 2017 the AIVD and the STIVD are rightly required to collect data, including from open sources, in the interests of protecting citizens' privacy. Wouldn't it be weird that other public services collect the same type of data without the necessary safeguards for privacy? In that case, the AIVD and the STUDY could ask other services to collect data which they themselves may only bring together under strict conditions. I ask the Minister to reflect on this. Should it not be the case that public data collection on citizens, focusing on the state security information position, is carried out exclusively by the AIVD and the STUD, under the strict conditions applicable to these services? More generally, is there not a need for a clear framework for government data collection, including, for example, activities of the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security or of municipalities, to prevent data collection on citizens by the government without legal basis? Is such a general framework for data collection not necessary? How would the AIVD and the STUDY fit in there? Finally, Mr President. This bill also provides a legal basis for the appointment of alternate members of the TIB. That is good; there is some urgency involved. But what about the capacity of supervisors and services in general? Good supervision requires capacity in both supervisors and services. Lack of capacity must never be a reason to stand in the way of effective supervision. I look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr Koole. I now give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today provides a legal basis for some of the policy rules that have been applied for more than two years and have been introduced by the government in response to the 2018 referendum. Others have already spoken about this. What complicates the handling of this bill is that the operation of the Wiv has been evaluated. The evaluation committee, led by Mrs Jones-Bos, issued a report on this at the beginning of this year. The government says it embraces these recommendations, and is now preparing a legislative proposal that incorporates the recommendations of the Jones-Bos evaluation committee into the new legal text. So that bill is not before discussion; it has yet to be written. Therefore, the scope of what we are discussing today is limited in itself. Today's bill contains a replacement scheme for the three members of the Review Committee on Betting Powers (TIB). We agree with that. It is essential that a member of the TIB can be replaced. It is, in fact, strange and worrying that the replacement scheme had been forgotten in the original legislative text and that no one had noticed it in time. Today's legislative proposal provides a legal basis for the special powers requirement. The government has even extended that requirement to more powers of the AIVD and the STIVD. In this way, as far as possible, citizens who are not research subjects should be prevented from being included in the investigation of those targeted by the services. Moreover, the objective requirement is in addition to the legal requirement that the exercise of a power is necessary, proportionate and in the alternative. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agrees. Today's bill also stipulates that when services want to cooperate with a foreign service in the context of an investigation into a particular threat on an urgent and important basis, a weighting note is first made. It addresses a number of criteria such as the democratic embedding of the service in the country concerned, the respect of human rights by that country, professionalism and reliability of the service concerned, the legal powers and capabilities of the service in that country and the level of data protection provided by the service concerned. These are minimum requirements, as we have understood from the further reply. So much more can be discussed in such a weighting note. According to the proposed Article 64, the Minister must authorise the cooperation envisaged on the basis of such a weighting note. Paragraph 3 of the proposed Article 64 adds that an immediate notification is made of the provision of unevaluated bulk data to the Information and Security Services Supervision Commission. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats sees this as a double guarantee and agrees with it. I still have a few questions for the Minister. The interview in the NRC of 7 March last year, and others have already discussed this, shows that there is an in-depth disagreement between supervisors on the one hand, the TIB and the CTIVD, and the Jones-Bos evaluation committee and the government on the other. The evaluation committee proposes that the TIB should focus on the acquisition of data in advance, with a legality test that is binding. The CTIVD focuses on the deployment during and after these proposals with dynamic real-time monitoring. In doing so, the evaluation committee considers it important that the work of the TIB and the CTIVD should be seamlessly aligned in order to further strengthen monitoring. According to the newspaper article, the TIB and the CTIVD take a different view. This concerns in particular the proportionality test carried out by the TIB. The question is: does the use of special powers not create a disproportionate disadvantage compared to its necessity? According to the supervisors, the possibility of the proportionality test will disappear if the proposals of the evaluation committee are accepted. This means less control of the intelligence services, and that is at the expense of citizens' privacy. My question to the Minister is: why are the TIB and the CTIVD not actually joined together into a single supervisory organisation, of course with different powers? It could be different rooms, with a clear cut between them, but one organization in one building, with regular work consultation, benefits the work. The complaint procedure, which is a separate part of the CTIVD and which has been assigned to the CTIVD, can then be transferred to the National Ombudsman, who deals with complaints against public authorities in various areas. How does the Minister view this? I would like to be promised that the possibility of an integrated supervisory system will be explicitly taken into account in the preparation of the new legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u10	Does Mr Dittrich still address my question about supervisory powers and the power of perseverance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u12	You'll get to that. Is Mr Dittrich sufficiently aware that when the complaints department is placed with the Ombudsman, the powers of the Ombudsman go much less far than the powers now conferred on the complaint handling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u13	Yes. My question is, therefore, what is the government's opposition to this and whether this can be taken into account in the preparations for the legislative proposal that has yet to be submitted to the evaluation committee. In my view, the government must give up a vision of this and, if necessary, adapt these powers to what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u14	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u15	But the question is, of course, as follows. The National Ombudsman can only carry out an investigation and recommendations. He can't stop an investigation. Should I understand Mr Dittrich's words in such a way that that needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u16	It's about complaint handling. Following something that happened in the past, someone filed a complaint. That has now been assigned to the CTIVD. If you're gonna make one big supervisory organization, you're gonna have to take out that complaint treatment. You can place them with the Ombudsman, because of course he has several public bodies in portfolio that can complain against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u17	I understand that's not part of the current bill, so you can keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u18	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u19	I understand that's not part of the current bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u20	Yes, but if the complaint is found to be well founded, the Ombudsman cannot intervene. The question I put to Mr Dittrich is: is the D66 Group sufficiently aware that when it proposes to place it with the Ombudsman, perhaps powers will be lost?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u21	I've already answered that. We are making this proposal now, and we await the reaction of the cabinet, especially as regards the legislative proposal that is yet to come. If certain powers are to be added to the Ombudsman, they must be added. We will have that discussion with that bill and not with this bill, which is now before us for discussion. Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is very important that supervisors can do their work properly, smoothly and dynamically, especially now that there are all kinds of limitations to the controlling role of the First Chamber. A large part of the work of the services is secret. We, as senators, have little vision of that. The Lower House has the committee secretly, in which there are a number of group chairmen, who are kept regularly informed of important matters and developments. The First Chamber doesn't have a commission like that. This means that we are having difficulty in fulfilling our control role. It is therefore important that we can assume that the supervisors can do their job properly. Noise on that line, as expressed in the NRC interview, causes us discomfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u22	I thought I would let Mr Dittrich speak on this point. I am actually referring to a more general point in this legislative proposal. The consultative referendum was previously withdrawn by this Minister, with the warm support of D66. There has been a referendum on this law. The conclusion to be drawn from this is that it was only necessary to introduce some policy rules, which are now being codified in the law. As far as D66 is concerned, is that a sufficient response to the critical noise of our citizens, namely that they voted against this bill, and is this right to the D66 referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u23	I understand that you would like to repeat this debate, which has been going on many times. I would point out that a government agreement has been reached, with the cooperation of D66, which contains additional safeguards as regards the Wiv. There's been a referendum. A narrow majority has indeed rejected the bill. The government then said: we take the concerns seriously and we are going to formulate policy rules so that we can apply the legislative proposal in advance, in compliance with those policy rules. Those policy rules are now being codified in this legislative proposal. We think that is important and that is why we are supporting this proposal, which I can say in advance, including in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u24	I just heard Mr Dittrich worry about the controlling task of the First Chamber. It must always be optimal, but the controlling and adjusting role that citizens had through the referendum has just been demolished by D66. In the preparation of this bill we hear that the Minister thinks it is enough to open an internet consultation, to which some reactions can come. That's it. How does D66 view the involvement of citizens in legislation, now that the referendum has been demolished by D66? Can Mr Dittrich give his views on whether such an Internet consultation is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u25	I can certainly give you that vision. I have already given them to you in a few debates. As you know, we supported the initiative for a corrective legislative referendum by the SP Group. We do, because we think this is important. Suppose a law has been passed and there is an initiative coming from the people in which they say: we do not agree with that law and we want to pull the emergency brake. Then they know exactly what the referendum is about, because then they are for or against the passed law. That seems to us to be a very good system, and I have argued this once and for all, also in response to interruptions on your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u26	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u27	I fully agree with Mr Dittrich. We voted in favour of the correct binding referendum. It's a good thing that's gonna happen, hopefully. But there isn't yet. This bill, which is a response to a referendum held.... it has been incorporated into it, as has just been outlined... it has only been limited to an internet consultation on the inclusion of policy rules in the law. Is that really enough? Shouldn't something more have been done here? Shouldn't a broader question have been put to the citizens than just an Internet consultation? Does D66 see this as sufficient in terms of the outcome of the referendum that has been held on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u28	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u29	What strikes me so much in your reasoning is that you always leave out the fact that in 2017 there was a government agreement with a whole passage about the Wiv. There was then a referendum. In that referendum campaign, D66 recommended that people vote in favour, because the anchor was already in the coalition agreement. A narrow majority rejected the law anyway. At that time we were pleased that the government said: we are going to take seriously the concerns of people who have been expressed in that referendum, and that is why we come up with policy rules ahead of a legislative change. We're discussing that change of law today. In that light, we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens, for interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u31	That then leads to the following question. Mr Dittrich says: I am pleased that the policy rules are now laid down in the law. That was important to D66. This also means, for example, that this amendment of the law cannot be watered down again with regard to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u32	But I don't see how it can be watered down. What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u33	What I mean by that, and I will also comment on it in my own term, is that the evaluation gives a number of contradictory opinions on this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u34	I know what you mean. I think we will agree if I can continue my speech. I would now like to talk about the bulk datasets, which have been collected with so-called special powers. Think, for example, of hacking. This must be assessed within one and a half years of relevance, as stated in the proposal under Article 27 of the Wiv. The idea behind this is that only relevant data should be kept longer. However, the Minister, the services have declared bulk datasets to be fully relevant and this is not in line with the legal text. Because that means that data from citizens who are not and will never be researched at all have been declared relevant. Article 27 provides that data whose relevance has not been determined shall be destroyed after one and a half years. The CTIVD has established in report number 70 that this way bulk datasets are stored for longer than the legal period and that these datasets have not been destroyed. That seems to us to be in breach of the law, and that concerns the D66 group. In the same report, the CTIVD indicates that in exceptional cases, their bulk datasets may have to be kept for more than one and a half years in the interests of national security, but they should be properly guaranteed. For example, the CTIVD suggests, I read, that the extension of the retention period should be possible at least annually. Now the Jones-Bos evaluation committee wants a three-year generic retention period without any involvement of independent monitoring. So the current law we are talking about does not allow that, nor does today's bill. That is why we have the problem that bulk datasets are now being stored without a legal basis. If that were to come before a judge, the judge could, with the law in hand, order the destruction of the data. After all, it's counter empty. The judge may also order that new data sets to be processed be destroyed after a year and a half, while they may still be of interest to our national security. These two situations do not contribute to the effectiveness of the services. They also do not contribute to the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. After all, there is no particularly binding supervision when it comes to data from citizens who are not at all relevant. How is the Minister going to stop this practice, which is contrary to the law? There's one more thing. On 25 May last, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights ruled in two cases concerning the acquisition and processing of bulk data: the Big Brother Watch case against the United Kingdom and the case of the Centre för rättvisa against Sweden. In both cases, the Court has held that large-scale bulk data interception programmes can be valuable and of paramount importance to the security of Member States. However, the Court imposes conditions on the applicability of fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy. Both judgments of the Court shed light on the recommendations of the Evaluation Committee and on the question of what safeguards should be available when violating the privacy of citizens and what degree of supervision should be exercised. We have received a letter a few days ago from Professor Dommering, who was on the evaluation committee himself. He sent that letter to us in connection with the handling of today's bill. He explains the decisions of the European Court which are not entirely shared by other experts. I therefore ask the Minister whether, in addition to the recommendations of the evaluation committee, she can make an independent, comprehensive analysis of the impact of the latest case law of the European Court of Human Rights part of the preparations and proposals for amending the law. The impact of the Council of Europe Convention 108+ can be taken into account, because the Netherlands will ratify it. Will the Minister promise us that? Is it prepared to send its findings to the First Chamber in the short term, for example in a letter, prior to the drafting of the new legislative proposal, which we will, of course, also deal with on the substance here? But that will undoubtedly be next year, as one colleague said. We look forward with interest to the reaction of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u36	The proposal that Mr Dittrich has just made is closely in line with the proposal I have made. But in my proposal it should be an external expert. Do I understand that this is also the case in your proposal, or are you just asking the department?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u37	I asked for an independent analysis. That means externally, not from the department. We have the evaluation committee, we have several experts who look differently at the allocation of powers, and then it is important for us as a Chamber to be able to look, for example, on the basis of a letter from the Cabinet, before that draft law is fully implemented: how did the independent experts judge this? This reinforces our view on the assessment of the legislative proposal. The tricky thing is that it's about work that's classified, that's not really being discussed in public. We don't have a committee secret. We really need to be able to rely on these supervisory bodies to do their work properly and dynamically, and if they do not agree with the evaluation committee and with the explanation given by Professor Dommering to the recent case law of the European Court of Justice, then we really need to be able to look carefully at this in the context of a proper handling of the forthcoming legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u38	A short supplementary question. Does Mr Dittrich also agree with our group that it would be a good idea to ask for an opinion on how the current Wiv and the legislative proposal before us today are to abide by the ruling of the Court and the articles contained in Convention 108+?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u39	To be honest, I expect that if there is a new legislative proposal, then it will be a question of the overall revision of the Social Fund. It is of course important to be able to see how a new bill relates to recent case law and new scientific insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u40	However, a question to Mr Dittrich about the nature of the debate we are having today. Mr Dittrich makes all kinds of proposals which he thinks should be taken into account in the forthcoming amendment to the Wiv, the bill that I said would probably reach this Chamber next year. He talked about merging the two supervisory bodies, he talked about the possibility of a sort of committee-secret also for the Upper Chamber. Perhaps these are very good ideas, but what does that mean for this debate on this bill? Is Mr Dittrich now preparing a kind of agenda for the minister, for the cabinet formation or for the forthcoming bill, instead of discussing the proposal before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u41	First of all, a correction: I did not propose that we set up a committee here in secret. Moreover, I can very well imagine that, during the legislative project for the legislative proposal to be submitted to the Permanent Chambers Committee on the Interior, we are considering how we can monitor this as best we can. Then I can imagine that with a number of people, for example from the Committee on Home Affairs, the whole committee is making very large work visits and that we have occasional discussions with the services and with the supervisory bodies. So we're on top of it, so we can get a lot more on what this whole new bill is about. That is a proposal I have not made now, but I would like to make at one of the forthcoming committee meetings. You asked me if I'm setting up an agenda. Look, it is of course true that the government has already said in the documents, in response to questions put by Mr D66, that we are in the process of drafting a new legislative proposal and we are embracing the evaluation committee, Mr Jones-Bos. Then, of course, it is a good opportunity to say: if you are working on this, we must ensure that there is a proper balance in supervision, but also in the ability to work on the services. That balance must, of course, be included in the legislative proposal. That is what the European Court of Justice, as Mr Nicolaï has already mentioned, passed on to me by saying, from my point of view, 25 May. It's important that they're taken. The bill we're discussing today is a change to the broader law. You can't see it completely apart from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u42	I am very pleased that these Court rulings are being discussed here, but I am concerned about the possible cooperation of the services, the first idea. That seems to be a kind of advance on a suggestion to take this into account in the preparation of the next law. Then the call is: do it in balance. I am sure the Minister would not have done so without this appeal. The second proposal is to organise in this Chamber perhaps not a committee secretly, but in a certain context, so that you can better follow what the intelligence and security services are doing. Do I understand correctly from Mr Dittrich that he is making this proposal not so much to the Minister, but to the Chamber itself, so that we can discuss it further in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u43	Yeah, you got that right. I hope you will agree with the D66 Group on this. I would like to make that proposal at one of the forthcoming meetings of the Committee on the Interior. I myself have the feeling that we will be able to carry out our monitoring task better in the whole project of the new legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u44	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u45	Finally, I would like to look forward to the proposals and then to the Committee on the Interior. Then we do not need to discuss it in detail today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u46	The House of Representatives knows a committee secretly, but there is also a kind of Chinese Wall system, namely that the MPs who are dealing with the legislation, for example, the Wiv we are talking about, do not get the information from the group colleague who is on the committee secretly. In that sense, therefore, the Members of Parliament who are doing the policy evaluations, as we are doing now and as we are going to do the major evaluation, are not helped by the fact that a group member of their group has information, because these two sources of information cannot come together. Do you agree with me that, in that sense, we were not helped to get more information when you divorce it, as happened in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u47	That's just not on the agenda today. So I'd like a brief answer, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Van der Burg, I've been on the committee secretly for years, and I know you won't be able to provide the spokesmen on a particular file with information. That is also why I do not propose that the First Chamber should be given a committee secretly. I didn't suggest that. I propose that we consult the Committee on the Interior on how we can monitor the forthcoming legislative proposal as thoroughly and properly as possible. It may be that a group from the Committee on the Interior will be on top of that whole legislative process by organising work visits, you name it. That's different from a committee sneak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u49	Back to the bill, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u50	I was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u52	It is right, Mr President, that you have just slightly corrected me, because this is exactly where the problem with this debate lies. If we had had this debate six months ago, we would probably have finished in one morning. If you listen to the speeches, in particular the contributions by Mr Koole and Mr Dittrich, and my question was in that sense also a mistake in the wrong direction. We cannot separate exactly what we have in our head from what is now at stake. Six months ago, we'd have known less and we'd have finished faster. Now you can see it running through each other. We are only talking here today about the adjustments resulting from the 2018 referendum, that is all. I am actually very interested in the answers to the questions that Mr Koole asked, for example, but I really do not want to hear those answers today, because they are answers that are more appropriate in the context of the big debate that is due in two years' time. Which, of course, I do not say anything to the Minister, because every Member of Parliament is allowed to ask any question. So, of course, you have to answer Mr Koole's questions. He decides what he asks you, but I can see that tension in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u53	This is a little entrapment. Here comes Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u54	Yes, Mr. Chairman, my name has been mentioned a few times now. I have tried to say in my speech that something has indeed happened since six months, especially as a result of that interview, but let us not talk about it today. My questions concern only the legislative proposal now before us and the answer given in the further reply. So I do not understand exactly what Mr Van der Burg means when he talks about Mr Koole's questions which should not be discussed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u55	I didn't say that, Mr. Koole. I said I'd really like to hear those answers later. Let me put it this way: for me, the Minister's answers to the questions you have asked in the context of my consideration of whether I am going to be in favour of the bill that the Minister is yet to write, but the answer to your questions by the Minister does not matter how I am going to vote on the current legislative proposal. Because that's what I'm gonna be for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u56	I would like to ask Mr van der Burg which questions he is referring to. My questions are only about the bill before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u57	You have in my eyes... Anyway, I didn't mean to criticize you in any way. I just wanted to point out how complicated the debate is, because we are actually having a debate here on a repair, imposed on us by the electorate, rather than on the evaluation that we would have wanted independently of the electorate's wishes. In my view, you and I agree that this repair of the 2017 law as a result of the 2018 referendum is an improvement. You even explicitly asked the Minister: do you see this as an improvement? If you asked me the same question, my answer would be: yes, I see the present proposal as an improvement. I'm not going to jump to the conclusion you're going to draw after that, but I see it as an improvement. But I also see that in the proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u58	This is gonna be a bit of a long answer, Mr. Van der Burg. Shall we simply confine ourselves to the bill before us today? Then can you continue your argument? Perhaps Mr Koole has a brief last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u59	That is exactly what my input has been dedicated to: restricting me to the legislative proposal before us. For example, I asked a question about the orientation requirement that was included in the law following the referendum. I don't see why I have to wait six months with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u60	Then let's leave it at that. It is up to the Minister to answer that. Would you like to continue your argument, Mr. Van der Burg, about your own contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u61	Yes, of course. Then it must be said that the people working at the AIVD and STUDY sometimes have to make extremely difficult decisions under extremely difficult circumstances. Even far-reaching decisions, not only for themselves but also for fundamental rights for you and for me. It is therefore extremely good that we have two monitoring committees to monitor this very closely. You know that in preparation for today's debate someone said: In Russia they are happy with the Wiv in the Netherlands and if you live in Russia, you would be happy if you had a Wiv like in the Netherlands, because you really see that monitoring is necessary to guarantee the democratic rights of citizens and organisations. At the same time, the review of legislation is also learning, I am talking about today's law, that we are, in fact, constantly following the facts. For example, we are talking today about bulk data and the use of bulk data by the intelligence services, but so far, it appears that the intelligence services have not or hardly used this part of the 2017 law. Therefore, we do not have enough data to properly evaluate how this law is applied. I think, Mr President, to return to the text, that the proposal as it stands today is an improvement and also does justice to what has been said by the electorate. Mr Dittrich said several times "with a narrow minority"; it was a narrow minority of 49.44%. At least the largest group said the law had to be different. I believe that the Minister's proposal is in line with the wishes of the honourable Member. We were as VVD before the original law. We see improvements in this, so we will also vote in favour of this bill. We believe that there should be a fundamental debate following the evaluation made by the Jones Committee. We are not having that debate now, we are having that debate in a year's time. Moreover, I agree with Mr Dittrich's proposal to prepare us well for this, because this is not an ordinary law but affects so many of the fundamental rights of citizens, so I will go along with Mr Dittrich's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Then I'll suspend for five minutes on request until 10:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u63	I give the floor to Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u64	"You must have a healthy distrust of the executive. You must have a healthy distrust of the executive." Mr President, this kept me an old, wise, experienced MP shortly after I joined the CVP group across the street as a policy officer almost 45 years ago. What exactly is this "disputed with a healthy distrust"? According to the Fat Van Dale, then, literally, you have to "suffer from a moral lack or a difficult habit" in the case of the bill we are discussing today, to distrust servants of the executive. But in a healthy way, with a healthy dose of distrust. The emeritus professor Frans Jacobs told us about trust and mistrust: mistrust can be very useful, but with moderation. The question, he says, is always: when are his distrust and trust productive and when destructive? Blind trust is unwise, absolute trust is equally necessary and moderate distrust is necessary. Jacobs calls this "precaution," and caution is a virtue. Extreme caution, striving for absolute certainty, is distrust. Lack of caution is foolish. So, Jacobs says, it's something in between. Distrust and trust with moderation. So much for the distinguished gentleman, Mr. Chairman. It is along this line of Professor Jacobs that the CDA Group wishes to assess the proposal to amend the still early Act on the Intelligence and Security Services of 2017 in a few parts, with a healthy dose of mistrust, but also with a healthy dose of confidence. Trust in the expert people we have entrusted primarily to protect our national security, and we can also count on them to do so in a careful manner, with a keen eye on the fundamental rights of citizens. In 2018, quite a few Dutch people gave a clear signal in the referendum on the so-called drag law. It is in response to this referendum that the cabinet came up with this bill in 2019. The question now before us is whether we, as the First Chamber, can agree to the adoption of two strengthened policy rules, namely those on the most targeted use of special powers and those on the accelerated weighting of cooperation with foreign services. Mr. Chairman. The assessment of this draft law concerns the CDA Group in order to strike a good balance between two interests. The importance of protecting our national security and the importance of protecting our privacy. I am aware of 'a good balance', because 'the good balance' does not exist. What will characterize one as too much freedom for the executive services is perhaps too little flexibility for the other. What one group in this House will qualify as too much regulatoryism is probably not enough for the other group. During the informative consultation with the directors of the AIVD and the STUDY, I think it has become clear to my fellow Members that these services must operate in a rapidly changing world of digitalisation, where speed of action is often required. This is difficult to cope with with cumbersome, time-consuming systems of control and supervision. And yet we cannot and do not want to go without adequate supervision. Fortunately, in this country, we already have a fairly balanced system of checks-and-balances, with professional services performing their work at a high level measured by international standards, and on the other hand two committees which oversee the work of these services, both ex ante and ex post. And yet, in our country too, we continue to look for ways of improving the work of the intelligence and security service and of refining the monitoring of the use of their often far-reaching powers. The services are calling for a form of dynamic monitoring that enables them to move efficiently and quickly with the environment in which they have to operate. The Committee on Budgetary Control and the Commission on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services warns against restricting the powers of these committees, but rather broadening them. The Jones-Bos evaluation committee has made an interesting set of recommendations to increase the workability and manoeuvrability of the system, which we will certainly be discussing with another cabinet. We therefore want to include the intrusive observations of the General Court, in particular the observation that in the debate on the implementation of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017 and in the preparation for the implementation of this new law, I quote: "insufficient attention has been paid to the impact on the implementation practice of the intelligence and security services." A statement which we all here in the First Chamber must take note of. Because isn't it our task to monitor the practicability of laws? According to the Court of Auditors, the legislative process went, I quote:'speed above content'. Add to this the substantial cuts faced by the services, and it is clear that this process has only seen losers. Let us also be clear here in the First Chamber that you cannot, but cannot, pile up without providing human resources and resources, and not forgetting to give the services sufficient time to prepare themselves for their new tasks, which are usually accompanied by heavier demands. Mr President, today my group wishes to confine itself to the small maintenance of the legislative proposal now before us. Any major changes to the report of the evaluation committee are not on our agenda. The next cabinet will first have the floor on this. Let me start with the conclusion: the CDA Group believes that the government has succeeded in finding a reasonable balance between security and care in the proposals for tightening up the Wiv 2017. Especially after clarifying, on the advice of the Council of State, that unevaluated data is in principle only shared with foreign services cooperating under Article 89 and that the weighting has also shown that regular data can be provided to these services. With other services, under Article 64, data are shared only if there are compelling and important cases. My group believes that in this way there is an adequate system of safeguards in the provision of data to foreign services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr Rombouts had just mentioned the need for sufficient human resources and resources in the light of the Court of Auditors' evaluation. The Court had pointed out that insufficient account had been taken of the impact on the feasibility of the proposed measures in the drafting of the law. My question to Mr Rombouts is as follows. If he thinks there should be sufficient human power and resources, can you wait until next year, if there is a new law? Does he not want to be sure that the services already have sufficient human resources and resources at their disposal to 'do their work effectively', as the president of the CTIVD said, and not have to wait for the next legislative change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u66	I also read somewhere in one of those reports that the ambitions the legislator has for the services often clash with the possibilities that people in the executive power have to live up to those ambitions, let alone to live up to them immediately. Actually, that's what you're essentially asking. Shouldn't we insist that it happens tomorrow? I have pointed out a number of times here in recent months self-reflection, even today. Who are we in the First Chamber? What's our role? What's our share of the state system? Let's be careful that we don't stack ambitions in a way that you theoretically would like very much, but which is virtually impossible to achieve. In fact, that is what I think the Court of Auditors is right to point out: this legislative amendment has been so intense that it has not been possible to achieve it because of the lack of resources in finance and formation. But perhaps the worst part is that we wanted it all to happen the next day, while the services were not included in the implementation of all those ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u68	Do I understand why Mr Rombouts says: when he amends the law, he means the Wiv 2017 and not the law that is before us today, as the Court of Auditors says, that the impact on implementation was not sufficiently taken into account? Does that mean that you either have to adjust your ambitions or give more resources? Is that what Mr Rombouts says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u69	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u70	And as long as these additional resources are not available, should we be content with less ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u71	May I ask a counter question? Not for reasons of debate, but simply because I am struggling with it myself. Are the two things we are implementing today sufficiently implemented to expect them to be implemented tomorrow? We are already stacking together, today, it is all very well meant and also theoretically very desirable academically what is to change again in the law. While in a long report the Court of Auditors says very comprehensively: you ask over, as long as I keep it short. We must, of course, think about this, and that is why I said in my text: we are lucky to be living in a country where there is already a fairly balanced system of checks-and-balances. Because you don't want to give the countries a living where that's very different. But of course I also said: where it can be done better, it must be done better. Let me just say this. I've heard of a director who came in every day with a hundred ideas for his associates. They hadn't processed all his ideas from the previous days. Then it becomes illusory to carry them all through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I propose that Mr Rombouts continue his speech on the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. There is still much to be said about the system of acquisition, for example in my text, processing and sharing of data, the monitoring and equipment of services, the accumulation of demands, the underestimating of the implementation of new tasks and more stringent requirements, the involvement of services in the formulation of new policies, and the balance between the various political ambitions on the one hand and the time available, people and resources on the other. These questions leave my group behind for another debate with a new cabinet. Even then, we, my old teacher on the other side and Professor Jacobs, will have to find the middle ground between giving confidence on the one hand and remaining endowed with a healthy distrust on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. How can intelligence services continue to function effectively in these rapidly changing times, while preserving the fundamental rights of citizens? That is the challenge in which a balance has to be found. Overall, the use of the powers of the intelligence services will have to meet the requirements of targeting, proportionality and subsidiarity. On the intelligence side, there is an increasing need for dynamic supervision. Our group certainly understands that. However, supervision must be properly regulated. An important issue in practice is the so-called bulk datasets. From the CTIVD, valid legal objections have been raised to the current state of affairs, while the bulk datasets are kept longer than allowed by law. For this purpose, the CTIVD uses "artificial grips." But the curve is that our intelligence services do share these bulk datasets with foreign intelligence services that are not bound by the retention period that applies in the Netherlands. This leads to the situation in which foreign services have more information, even provided by the Dutch intelligence services, than the Dutch intelligence services themselves. Our group would like to hear from the Minister in concrete terms how it assesses this inconsistent state of affairs. Mr. Chairman. Then we get to the bulk datasets. As regards both the collection of bulk data and the processing of bulk data, concerns are greatest in society. This also turned out to be the case with the so-called drag target in 2018. Our group sees the need for longer storage and use of bulk datasets. The CTIVD also sees this need as well as the need to provide the greatest possible guarantees. But it is also true that the CTIVD strongly believes that the current law does not allow this. A temporary or otherwise solution will have to be found. How is the Minister going to solve this problem? Then we come to another important aspect: the growing role of NCTV, part of the Ministry of Justice and Security, within the intelligence community. In the meantime, the NCTV already employs 300 people under the responsibility of Minister Grapperhaus and some are already talking about a third intelligence service. Does the supervision of the CTIVD extend to NCTV? How does the Minister see the role of NCTV, particularly in the system of monitoring the intelligence services? Is current supervision also adequately guaranteed for NCTV? Will this be coordinated with the Minister responsible, Mr Grapperhaus, and, if so, in what way? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the question of the organisation of supervision of the intelligence services. In the current situation, prior approval is requested from the Review Committee on Betting Powers (TIB). In addition, there is supervision during and afterwards of the CTIVD. That's a rather fragmented system of surveillance. We believe that a more comprehensive way of monitoring is urgently needed. We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. But first of all, we would like to hear from the Minister how she sees the possibilities for a more integrated overall approach to effective supervision of intelligence services. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Finally, I will give the floor to Mrs Gerkens on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been said today: this adaptation of the Wiv has been brought about by the concerns of the people after the referendum. The result of this gave a clear indication of how difficult this issue is. Yes, we want our country to stay safe and no, not all information can be shared. This requires a constant search for what sometimes seem to be conflicting interests, but which are not really. Let me give the example of encryption as a comparison: it seems that the world can be better protected against criminals if we weaken encryption methods, but no, at the same time we weaken the protection of our citizens. So the question of how to protect our citizens is not just a question of obtaining information. It concerns the balance sheet and the assessment of risks introduced by the removal of protections. First of all, my group notes that this legislative amendment, which is an improvement, has taken a very short period of time, while this outgoing cabinet could not wait to embrace the conclusions of the review of the law. By embracing this, the outgoing cabinet seems once again to be questioning this change of law, and that is what my group is concerned about. For I would like to say once again that this bill is based on a statement by the people. I can be brief about this change of law. It is a de facto improvement, but, to say that we have a good law, we are also out of line. The drag of citizens' data, unfocused and massive, is and remains an undesirable method of protecting the citizen, because it weakens the protection, and not so little. With the right data, you no longer need to have naw data to know where someone is and what the next step of that person or persons in his or her environment is going to be. I fear that few of us here really understand what is possible with data that at first sight seems to be innocent information. Because of this lack of knowledge, we can no longer speak of a well-informed decision. What is therefore urgently needed is good supervision. We therefore support the replacement scheme. We are still discussing the operation of the monitoring in general when we consider the evaluation. It is clear that their role is of great importance. Only with proper supervision can people's confidence in this law be maintained. Trust is thin, as the referendum showed, and that is sometimes difficult for the services too. However, this difficult element must not weaken supervision. On the contrary, we must ensure that services are strengthened. Mr. Chairman. The supervisors are concerned about the implementation. Baking with non-anonymized data lying there is not deleted in time, which still runs counter to the targeted collection of data, and the TIB gets a lot of requests that go against the law. Even though the CTIVD notes improvements in implementation, it still considers the current practice of implementing the law worrying. What we regret is not regulated in this legislative amendment is the mandatory reporting of zerodays and the real protection of whistleblowers and journalists. For the first, on the other hand, there is an initiative law, but as far as the second is concerned, how is this change to the law now preventing data from being taken into account by journalists and sources when towing? What guarantees can the Minister provide for this? The Minister gives a number of conditions to prevent the data from being shared, but what method is there actually to filter out that data? There is no guarantee that such information from journalists, whistleblowers or sources of journalists is not also shared with foreign services. The current policy rules, which are being transposed into this law, have proved to be intransigent in their implementation. In practice, as I said, it is particularly difficult to filter these data from the towing network before they are shared with other services. I'd like a reflection on this from the Minister. The treatment is almost parallel to the evaluation of the law. Now, from that evaluation, the call for adjustments, which are actually at odds with what we are dealing with today, already sounds like a call for adjustments. This is a matter of concern, especially as these changes have been made by society, following the referendum. My question to the cabinet is: how can it be that today it will undoubtedly defend it, while it also embraces the opposite recommendations, apart from the question of whether the latter is appropriate for a outgoing government? How does this minister see this tension field? What guarantees does it intend to give that this law will be in place, even after the evaluation has been carried out? I am referring in particular to the provision in the law of the Recourt motion that the use of powers in the collection of data by the services should be as targeted as possible. The proportionality test of the TIB also plays an important role in this, but it is then called into question in the evaluation. It would be strange if we were all here to speak for the role of the TIB, which would then disappear again in the next round. I'd like a response from the Minister. I also refer to the weighting notes for sharing information with foreign services. Now the TIB includes sharing with other services in its weighting test, but it is advocated to change this. My group also wonders what the Minister's view is. Mr President, in conclusion, the SP has never been in favour of this law and will support any improvement in the law. This change of law improves the law a little, but not good enough. But once again, that is no reason for us to vote against. But this law, because of the drag element, remains more than at odds with people's right to privacy. In Europe we see that lawsuits about data sharing are won time and time again by opponents of it. We have great concerns about another round. The evaluation has already been embraced by this outgoing cabinet, which is directly contrary to this legislative amendment. On this remarkable opposite movement we would like a reaction. It is our group's express wish that the changes that are now being made, as a result of the referendum, should be maintained. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-08-eerstekamer-3.u79	Then I'll suspend the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
