ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	We shall now begin the debate on the Corona Support Package. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Secretary of State for Finance, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members that they can ask six questions or make comments during the first term of office. Six interruptions, then. They also have six questions or comments in the first term from the cabinet. How you want to distribute them is entirely up to you, but it's still six. Unless the rulers give difficult answers, as I have already announced. I'll give you a little more room for that. But of course we don't assume that at all. We are starting this debate positively. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. I can also speak here today on behalf of the Den Haan Group. So, completely against my habit, I will stick strictly to the text. Mrs. Den Haan had to be somewhere else in The Hague, so that's why. The football stadiums are filled again, the terraces are full and we can go back to the office to see colleagues. These are hopeful messages, but we still see that many entrepreneurs and employees are having a very difficult time. The corona crisis has left deep traces in our society. All those people who work in the cultural sector, at festivals, in the catering industry and at travel agencies are not doing well yet. They're having trouble paying the bills. We must not leave them in the cold. We must keep our promise that we will help everyone through this crisis to the end. That leads me to the following question to the cabinet: how wide is the allowance fixed charges night closure? Can other sectors make use of this? If not, how can other sectors affected be supported? Why hasn't the TVL been extended, which is now breathing with the economy? Why have we chosen to place a ceiling of 85% and a maximum amount of €250,000 in the scheme? What is the situation with regard to the large number of applications for the NOW that have not yet been submitted? What is the state of play now? How are we going to prevent unwanted recovery? Finally. Are there concerns from the social development companies? Is the Minister for Social Affairs prepared to keep a finger on the pulse for the next quarter? The corona crisis has also highlighted another slumbering crisis: the already existing poverty and debt crisis. We see rows for the food banks, families that have to make the choice between buying a gift for their child, paying the rent or necessarily turning the heating down a few degrees this winter. The Nibud is the alarm clock for a huge influx of people in debt. I want this cabinet to take this crisis seriously. Municipalities are already reluctant to help people in poverty because of lack of money. There is not enough money in municipalities to address the most urgent needs. Will the cabinet give municipalities the assurance that they can and can do anything to help people in need? Is the cabinet going to make extra money for that? Mr. Chairman. Then the kids. Young people were hit very hard during the corona crisis. They don't have a social life when they want to build it. During this crisis, they lost their first job and spent months without income at home. And still too many young people at home are sitting on the couch. This is precisely when they directly need our support and help, including financial, in order to get to work. I therefore find it hard to understand that the cabinet is withdrawing the possibility of direct support from municipalities to young people. I therefore ask the cabinet to abolish the time limit for young people until 1 January 2022, as it has done in the past year. Finally, Mr President. Unfortunately, we see companies such as temp agency Randstad, Adecco and payroll company Ev Tilburg, despite massively receiving state aid, handing out bonuses to their shareholders. These companies don't have any morals. I ask the Minister, like Booking, to make a moral appeal to get this money back. This is tax money from hardworking Dutch people. We've seen public pressure working. That's why the call from my side: Randstad and Adecco, pay back that tax money! Mr President, I will conclude. The promise to get everyone through the corona crisis is something we really have to live up to. Help entrepreneurs and self-employed people who need it now. Address the poverty and debt crisis. There's no longer time to wait. Finally, assist those young people who have been hard hit during this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	I thought it was a fantastic argument. You have said twice that we must help everyone through the corona crisis. The damage done by the government with the corona measures is, of course, enormous. Relatively large support packages have been rolled out. But one particular group has completely forgotten. In my opinion, you mentioned the entrepreneurs in your last sentence, and I am referring specifically to the DGAs. You have an enterprise, an e.g., and a few people who work there. You're very cooperative yourself. It is, of course, a very strange term, the 'director-major shareholder'. That suggests you really have millions on the couch. But that dga is completely forgotten in the support packages of the gentlemen in box-K. Don't you think that we've failed these people and that we should come up with something for them, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	I agree with Mr Van Haga that we should talk about all entrepreneurs when we talk about entrepreneurs. I have also spoken to other entrepreneurs who, because of a particular form of organisation, could not claim the support. We have then constantly said here together with several parties: pay attention to these groups too. That is, as far as I am concerned, also about this group. I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of legal obstacles. We can't ignore them. But I'd be happy to see how we can still address the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	Now I hear the old Labour Party again, who takes care of everyone. It's the Labour Party who used to build houses and all that kind of stuff, and didn't go along with all that left-wing wok crazy. But with regard to that director-major shareholder, we do have a really big problem. The NOW provides for the exclusion of dga. There are no legal hooks and eyes. If you want to work together on that point, I am going to make a motion to include that dga in the NOW or to come up with something for dga, so that all entrepreneurs andzzp'ers are helped in an equal way in this weird crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	First of all about that "old-fashioned" or "new-fashioned" Labour Party: there is only one Labour Party. It represents the security of existence of everyone in the Netherlands. This applies to entrepreneurs. That applies to people who are vulnerable. We have stood for that in the past and we will always stand for that now and in the future. Again, I am prepared to look at those groups of entrepreneurs who are struggling, who have not received any support, to see what we can do on that point from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	I'm triggered by the word "everyone." Mr Van Dijk used this in his opening sentence as well as in his last sentence. I think we are all spokesmen for the Economy of Social Affairs and SMEs. But where's the honest story that's coming to the end now? I mean that we must also say that we are going to reduce aid at some point. And then there might be some exceptions. But we also have to tell the honest story, that we can't help everyone. I refer to the discussion that has just preceded this. We can't help everyzzp'er or every company, no matter how painful it is for the people who might be sitting in the bleachers or watching them at home. What is the fair answer of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	I believe that from the beginning of the outbreak of the corona crisis, we have all been committed to trying to pull everyone through. We have done so in the last year and a half with a great deal of initiative from the Chamber. We have tabled more motions for this and put forward proposals for it. Of course, there are always individuals who fall just between shore and ship. I am talking about the border workers and certain types of companies that are just there and cannot claim that aid. So I agree with you on that. It's a search, but it's not over for me. Then the second part of your question. Yes, the aid packages will end in time. I see how well the economy is doing, so we cannot continue to support endlessly. Indeed, our economy is doing very well and our companies are doing very well, but I said that there are a few sectors that are... happy they are not that big anymore. I am talking, for example, about part of the catering industry, part of the coaches, part of the tourism, part of the events. If you ask me, I'd like to see how we can solve that sector-specifically. But now I know, also from the cabinet, that it's incredibly complicated. That's why I've been looking at the night-closure scheme. So it is also my question whether you can go through the whole package, but generically one part of the aid package until 1 January, so that we can still help the entrepreneurs we both mean in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks still wants to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for reminding us that a market also knows morality, that we are also promoting it here in this Chamber, in this debate that everyone can listen to, that we have supported and that we expect something to come back. My question to the PvdA is: are you, like me, very curious about how the cabinet, unlike on page 4 of the letter, did moral appeal to those companies, what it has considered, what it has done and what it will do from today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	Yes, because I still think the cabinet is reluctant on that point. For example, we have had a whole debate here about Booking.com. Well, because of the political pressure, the social pressure and media reports, they finally chose eggs for their money. But my point, about the moral apple, concerns the temporary agency companies. Broadcast operators have applied for a lot of state aid because they were in trouble immediately at the outbreak of the corona crisis. But when they attracted the economy, they started making a lot of money very quickly. The umbrella organisation of temporary agency organisations, the ABU, said to its own members at the beginning of the year: make sure that you pay back the state aid you do not need. But this kind of very big parties like Randstad and Adecco I think they should be called by name and then go on to the order of the day. I don't think I can explain that. We are having a broader debate here on the temporary employment agencies. You can see how the migrant workers are treated and you can see what flex structures some temporary employment agencies are using and that people are going to die from it. I think that at least we can ask them to find some morale, to repay state aid and to do a lot of work on normal dealing with people who work very hard in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're almost there, so we're not quite there yet. The question that I believe is before us today is whether we are ready to wipe out all the support packages, that we can remove all the aid packages. As far as the SP is concerned, the answer is very much related to the extent to which the cabinet is prepared to meet thezzp'ers and the entrepreneurs, and to ensure that we all make it to the finish line. Of course, it makes sense for the aid to end. This is also reflected in the number of applications for the schemes. There is less and less recourse to the schemes. I had just looked at it: the number of applications for the Tozo, the scheme for the self-employed, was reduced from 374 000 and a half years ago to 40,000 two months ago. That, of course, indicates the trend at the moment. We can also see that the labour market is tight. Mr. Chairman. But what's the Cabinet gonna do? I would like to give a few examples of companies and sectors which have been hit hard over the last year and a half and which are now in danger of losing out. I am thinking, for example, of those who build the stages and tents at the festivals. In September, hardly anyone organizes a festival. During the period before that turnover should have taken place, but that turnover did not take place. The same goes for those who put the toilets, the fences and the beer trucks and the people who have a food truck and are on such a festival site, and so I can go on for a while. But I'm also thinking about the people who work in the nighthoreca. The proposal now before us is about the fixed costs of nighthoreca, but people are also working. I'm thinking about DJs, bouncers, and I can go on like this. Think also of the congress centers, especially those congress centers that organise conferences for the international public. That, too, remains silent. The question to the cabinet is what the cabinet is going to do about it, so we won't have to say goodbye to.I mention just one thing: the Van Nelle Fabriek, the Jaarbeurs and the RAI in Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. Then the small travel agencies. They have passed here many times, because they were not eligible for the TVL, which was paid for the self-employed. What is the Cabinet going to do to support them as well? Then there is the signal from the cultural sector, but above all from museums, that through this QR code they have to do with a decreasing number of visitors. Museums depict a 50% decrease in the number of visitors. What's the Cabinet gonna do for that? Mr. Chairman. The proposal now being made for this nighthoreca, I would also say in the direction of Mr Koolmees, who is talking to Mr Blok, is not yet the beginning of an answer to the problems I have just outlined. I am counting on the cabinet to be willing to do a lot more for that. I agree with the question put by Mr Gijs van Dijk on the account of the NOW, the support for wage costs. The point is that this should be done in a good way, not with immediate intervention, but also with the question: why has nothing been delivered? The point is that this is done in a proper way. Mr. Chairman. Then the stark contrast with the companies with which things are going very well. We have, of course, had a whole debate here about the Booking Bonuses. But also think of Randstad or the HEMA, which is now part of Jumbo, a group that makes huge profits and whose owners are in place four in the Quote 500, or DAF, which received state aid but at the same time also received the largest order from South America ever. That cashing on corona is wrong, and that contrast is huge. In the previous debates, on the initiative of Mr Amhaouch, a proposal was made to instruct the cabinet to organise a solidarity levy. That's what the SP is very much for. We filed that motion together, too. But then there was no delivery. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? We do have a suggestion, also with regard to the tax on profits. It turned out to be a lot of work last week. So I think we could look at that, too. Companies that do well pay that income tax. Perhaps by this way we can ensure that money from the business community also flows back to the public purse. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the large increase in the number of people living in poverty and in debt. The Nibud talked about 2.6 million people and said that this is going to increase enormously, because of loans that have been made in connection with the corona crisis. Finally, a question to the Cabinet: is the Cabinet prepared to contact all the municipalities and to take stock of what is needed to get this debt relief and poverty support up to date and to inform the Social Affairs Committee about it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the hard workers at the Ministry, especially EZK, and at RVO, UWV and the municipalities. They have worked hard over the past one and a half years, two years, to implement the policies that we have been able to help entrepreneurs and save jobs. Mr. Chairman. I remember the Prime Minister's statement from last March. He said, "The entrepreneurs will not be abandoned. I say to entrepreneurs who are looking at financial and emotional issues: when the support packages are over, we do not suddenly say 'find it out'." Mr. Chairman. The cabinet fulfilled the commitments, but the question is whether the aid packages are not being phased out too quickly and abruptly. With the complete abolition of the NOW, the TVL and the Tozo, the complex reality is not done justice at all. I find it a little too easy when the cabinet says: the corona crisis is over, in recent years we have actually seen few companies go bankrupt and we see that the economy attracts enormously. The question is whether that justifies the need for us to approve the plans as they are. I have the feeling that the cabinet is completely ignoring the problems that companies are going to face in the coming years. Entrepreneurs have managed to keep their heads above water with the NOW and the TVL, with deferred taxes and loans from creditors but also with the sale of assets and the rehiring or leasing back. But they no longer own or even have a negative equity, they have put in pension funds or a second mortgage, actually everything to stay on top of. Together, they have some EUR 20 billion in corona tax debt. Take for example the catering, retail and sports and recreation. The CPB and DNB studies show that these sectors even have negative own funds. In other words, they're technically bankrupt. The debt in these sectors has grown high and we also see with the introduction of the corona pass that this is not yet the end in sight. How long does the Minister think that entrepreneurs will last and is there really a normal business situation? Then the coronapas. You know that my party is not in favour of this. Those limited entrepreneurs in being able to undertake. By the way, all signals are green. The number of infections, hospitalisations and ICI intakes do not justify this restriction. Another big loser is the travel industry. They often have to do with negative equity. 70% of all destinations are still closed on the basis of government policies. In particular, travel organisations specialising in certain countries, such as the United States and Japan, simply cannot go on. These strict travel restrictions mean that they can't move in the right direction. I wonder, therefore, if we discuss the new arrangement with each other, why nightclubs are compensated for it and not travel organizations. The same goes for the taxi drivers. It's a group that was really ignored at the beginning of the corona crisis. It is a group whose own capital is now also completely burned up and which also suffers huge disadvantages from the fact that people are moving less and less, more at home and there is the obligatory closing time for the catering industry. This means that there are also taxi drivers who depend greatly on nightlife. If that's not there anymore, it's gone too. Why aren't taxi drivers compensated and the nightclubs are? I would like to receive the response of these ministers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. The government is the biggest enemy of Dutch business. This has again been demonstrated by the damage that the state has done to our society through all kinds of senseless and illogical corona measures. The main rule should be that if the government causes damage by introducing wage measures, the government compensates for this damage 100%. But none of this. The dga did not receive any support at all and the NOW covered only part of the wage costs. Concerns were keeled and the catering and event industry were financially stripped. The aid measures were crumbs and are now being abolished. This is unacceptable for the Dutch interest. First of all, the coronapas. As you know, the interest of the Netherlands is very much against this coronapas. But can the Minister indicate the net effect on turnover of dropping the one-and-a-half meter rule and introducing the corona pass at the same time? In the Pancake Paradise in Haarlem it turns out that a lot of elderly people stay away because they don't have a smartphone or because their healthcare provider simply hasn't been vaccinated and doesn't want to test either. Then the travel industry. How can the aid stop as of 1 October for sectors which are still affected by State measures? Mr. Chairman. The festival industry still cannot carry out profitable exploitation due to the 75% visitor limit. The nighthoreca still has to close at 00.00 hours for inexplicable reasons. Moreover, the catering industry must also check the discriminatory coronapas, while the staff have found embellishments in empty test streets. How are we going to help the festival industry and the nighthoreca? How are we going to compensate the catering industry for the additional inspection obligation? How are we going to make sure that the people who are now working in the test streets pick up their old job in the hospitality industry again? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the interest of the Netherlands does not understand that we are now setting up a new scheme, namely the VLN, while the TVL could have been used. Can the Minister explain why this choice was made? How long is it gonna take for the VLN to be operational and corrupted entrepreneurs to get their money? Thank you. On the second, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Yeah, that's very good! I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. During a crisis, you get to know yourself. During this crisis, too, we as the Netherlands have shown that, if we want to, we can move and build huge things, even where regulations are inadequate. So I am very much in favour of the compliments. That's the lesson GroenLinks learned. There are big gaps in our social security system. The entrepreneurs and people we are talking about today were lacking. We built a bridge for that, which was once in a while a string. The question in this debate is: how do we proceed? The cabinet clearly wants to stop. As GroenLinks, we see huge opportunities that we can seize. That's why I have four questions for the cabinet. First of all, the self-employed. We saw that the cabinet also saw that social security and the safety net for independent entrepreneurs were extremely limited. We had the reports lying around. What did the Cabinet do? Put down an imperfect Tozo. The cabinet wants to stop doing this, now acknowledges that the old Bbz scheme, the safety net, really does not work and says: we are making a new temporary Bbz scheme. Our question to the cabinet is: wouldn't it be a huge shame if we were to burst into the imperfect old Bbz scheme in one go? At the moment, it is unclear what it will look like if we stop, so our question is to the Cabinet: will you investigate whether and ensure that we do not move from this new temporary arrangement to the imperfect old one? 'Cause then we're gonna drop the odds. The second question concerns the search period for young people. We all agree: young people looking for jobs deserve them. But the cabinet keeps holding... Fortunately, with the support of the Chamber, we have said: stop with that stupid policy. We can say 'go for four weeks', but all the aldermen of all parties say to us: 'Help young people from day one looking for a job, because it is not self-evident in the labour market. So provide services from day one, instead of having them search for four weeks." That is why I ask you to change the search period permanently, as aldermen ask us, so that we can help people to get a job from day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	There's been an interruption by Mr. Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm a little surprised to listen, because Mrs Maatoug mentioned that she had learned something from the corona crisis. I had understood this story before corona, but by now we are in a situation where scooters are given away when people come to work in the catering industry and that travel to New York is given away when you come to work at companies that lack people. I know restaurants that have to close two or three days a week because they don't know how to get people who, for example, want to help in the service. Then I find it a bit strange that Mrs Maatoug says: in four weeks' time it really is not possible to find a job. Isn't that contrary to the reality of the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	This is the difference between us, between GroenLinks and the VVD. I like wishful thinking, but the reality is that some people don't know how to find vacancies. We would prefer those people to be able to contact the municipality at the counter from day one, so that we can help them by pointing out the vacancies you are talking about. That could mean, for example, that you have a job in week two, instead of having four weeks of mismatch on the labour market and not finding that job, except in a beautiful theoretical reality. But then we fail ourselves, because those people could have gone to work in week two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	This is not a theoretical reality; this is just sampleboard.nl opening and visiting entrepreneurs. Mkb'ers are choking on vacancies right now. We've never had as many vacancies as we have at the moment. Then it makes sense for you to say: go, before you walk to the municipality for a welfare allowance, to visit such an entrepreneur to get going there. Because at the moment people are massively lacking in many industries. Then I think it's kind of weird that we say, "No, no, we have to pay benefits right away," because imagine people finding a job in four weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	But this is the great thing, and we agree on that: we want all young people to be given a job as soon as possible. But there's also a difference between us. That group you're talking about will find a job right away, on day one, so we don't have the problem. But these are people who are unable to do so and for whom you may need to make an appointment through the municipality's employer service point. We say, "Give that service from day one, because they'll have a job faster." That's where the difference is between us. So let's not theoretically wait four weeks to make a point of principle. We think that's a shame. Hence the question to the cabinet. Aldermen of your party also agree with me very much. The third point, Mr President, is that there is still time. Because that is actually what Mr Aartsen of the VVD says. We see that in Nieuwsuur yesterday, too, that there are now a lot of sectors waiting for well-educated people. We have had this period of arrangements, as NL learns by. Congratulations to the cabinet for this, too. We see that these arrangements are fully met by people who are looking for a career path: what can I do, what are the possibilities? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are people who are sitting at home on the couch or in a particular sector but want something else. They think: I want something else, but I don't know how to do it; what course should I take? Our question to the cabinet: can we take these months because there will be a STAP budget in March, please do not let go? Let's take this opportunity. Would you like to make that possible and arrange a budget so that, in this period of tightness, we can help more people with career advice until December? Of course, I am asking this question to the Minister for Social Affairs, but I am also very curious about the image of Mr Blok and the Secretary of State for Finance. 'Cause in those parts, too, I'm wondering, what's the deal with the cut? I'm also looking at the Millions Note. Get on with your education. Let's take this opportunity, please, and don't let it go. Because drawing a certain conclusion afterwards would be a pity. Finally, Mr President. This whole debate is going to talk about how we are going to proceed. I found the previous letter a little unclear myself, because it was not clear whether we were going to stop or not. This time the cabinet is very clear: we are going to stop. We are going to have this whole debate about what is going to happen to people, entrepreneurs, workers and self-employed people. It is unclear to me: what do you expect from the entrepreneurs? What is what you want to give them? What do you ask of their pension pots and their savings? I would very much like us to make a very clear moral appeal in this Chamber today, but also to say very clearly to entrepreneurs and people what we expect them to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Dijk, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	There are still sectors that are having a hard time. Fortunately there are not so many anymore, but still some, such as tourism, catering and event industry. I also said in my speech whether we should not look at whether we are going to go through the aid package, either sector-specific or one of the parts of the package, for a few months. What does Mrs Maatoug think of such a reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	Yesterday there was a very nice cultural debate with our fellow cultural spokesmen. This question was also raised there, and it is: what kind of world do we want tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? And what do we expect to come? Hence my question to the cabinet. My colleague Lisa Westerveld has made it very clear that we do not want us to look back and think in two years' time: that is where our entire cultural sector went. So we also think it is important that we take specific measures there. In order to be able to make that assessment, we also consider it important to know what the cabinet is saying to all entrepreneurs. That's why I'm asking that question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	It's kind of a difficult trade-off. Part of the aid may also be counterproductive. That's what the CPB says: at some point you have to stop that support, because it's going to be negative. We also see that a number of companies and a number of cultural organisations, in fact the whole of the cultural sector, are having a hard time. I think that is a bit of a search in this debate. The cabinet says very loudly: no, it's done, it's over. And I think I can go along with that to a large extent, but for that part that's still having a hard time, you might need those few months, because we've already invested so much. We have said that we are trying to get as many people into this as possible and try to save companies. Maybe it's still necessary to take those few extra steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	I look forward with curiosity to the answers of the cabinet to the questions raised by Mr Van Dijk and to the questions I have just asked. One thing is very clear for GroenLinks: if we make sure that the safety nets are in order for people, then we can handle a lot. The same applies to entrepreneurs. So what's very important to us is that this doesn't kill people. Whether it's for corporate debt or for personal debt. That's the line. The lesson we learn from this corona crisis is that it was not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr De Jong, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	I hear Mrs Maatoug talking about training and retraining. I am also very pleased that the cabinet has already taken a step in this by adding additional budget. I also hear a discussion here with Mr Aartsen about young people, or people, who can easily find a job. I also fully agree with you that we must stand up for people who want to be helped from work to work. I am very curious about GroenLinks' plan for the people who are still at home, who are looking for a job but cannot find it. I do hear the question you are asking, but I'm actually curious what GroenLinks wants for the people who haven't got a job yet, what are all these vacancies for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	I'm very happy to get this question, because then I have extra minutes and seconds to make my point. So thank you, colleague of D66. That is exactly why we are working on these development advices. 'Cause they're there for everyone. You are quite right to say that it is a good thing that the cabinet is making money for this. But we're out of money. The pot's empty. There's a lot of stuff on it. So there are people, mothers and parents, who say, "Oh, I might want to get to work in healthcare; I just don't know how to do that, what course to take and how to do that." I also received e-mails about this. That's exactly what those development advices are for. What we are proposing is this. In March, budgets for the STAP will only be available. Just make sure that in that interim period, in this time of cramping when we're looking for people in all kinds of sectors, people are being helped and know where to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	You will find me at your side when it comes to lifelong learning, about continuing to school people. We see a job isn't forever anymore. We really need to help these people. I think the cabinet is taking a step in that. I can hear you saying that now. But do I understand from this that you will come up with a proposal on how we are actually going to help these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	I hope that Mr De Jong will support my motion on these development budgets, which are open to everyone, including those who do not work. I hope that we will broaden these budgets so that we can ensure that those people can also be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. Then I give the floor to Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been a year and a half since we had the first support package debate, and I sincerely hope that this is at least the last major support package debate we have with each other. After a year and a half, the support packages for entrepreneurs come to an end. That makes sense in itself. Fortunately we go back steps, we almost go back to the old normal. The 1.5 meter is released, the homework is no longer mandatory and you can also simply organize a nice, cozy drink and a party. This old normal also includes an economy without state aid, something that entrepreneurs have wanted for a very long time. Indeed, self-generating is the best aid available. And we must also be honest: the current generic aid packages already show the first negative incentives. However, we need to keep an eye on sectors that are currently facing serious restrictions or other direct effects. Also in the post-corona era there are a number of things that we need to discuss with each other and where we need to keep our finger on the wrist. I would like to mention some of them. I'll start with the support we'll continue. Because almost three months ago, the cabinet announced an arrangement for the nighthoreca, and finally he is there, the VLN. I think I'm saying that right. It sounds a bit like the last division of the Forum for Democracy, I have to tell you honestly. So it took the cabinet three months to come up with a new name for the TVL, because that is what it is de facto about. In fact, the TVL is being extended for the fourth quarter of this year with a turnover threshold of 50%. Is it true that, in addition to nighthoreca, other companies from other sectors may also benefit from this scheme? I am thinking, for example, of coach companies, which may be open, but so many school trips are not organized at the moment. Whether the business congresses or business trips, which may be formally allowed, but which takes a while before something like this gets going. If that's the case, I'd say, "Let's not make it any harder than it is." If something walks like a duck, if something quacks like a duck, and if it looks like a duck, I think it's a duck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	Here comes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'll finish with your permission, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	The VLN is a TVL 2.0 as far as I'm concerned. I think it is a sensible thing, because we are going through another quarter, which means that you have an extra safety net for companies that are really incredibly hard and that have more than 50% turnover losses. So we think that's wise, but let's just call it TVL 2.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	This TVL 2.0 is of course very nice, but do you not find it strange that the turnover drop is different, namely 50% instead of 30%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	No, I do not think so, because I think that is appropriate to the phasing-out that we are currently doing with the support package. It's a little weird that you have a situation where everything is closed, where we've had a very strict lockdown, and that you're using those same percentages in a situation where almost everything is open again. I think that's crazy, so if you say: we're building up the support package and the situation is almost as it was, then I also think it makes sense that you're putting a certain phasing-out in it and that you're using it as a safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	Of course, that argument is valid, but not for every industry. There are sectors that still have to deal with very strict measures. Would it not be reasonable to continue to use the 30% for these sectors? Because if you have 49% turnover drop in that sector now, you still have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	Of course, we know these situations from a lot of times in recent times, which were just on the edge. I think it's okay that you say we don't do the same thing when we did when everything was really closed and there was a full lockdown. I think that's a very good one. By the way, I think that with that 50% you are also helping a number of seasonal companies and sectors. So I think it makes perfect sense that you're gonna wrap it up a little bit, even as a safety net. In addition, there are no main arguments for me, but there are two side arguments, namely that you also make sure that companies that are in a sector that you say are affected by corona but those effects are just permanent... Think of a cleaning company or a catering company in an office building. I can predict that, given the traffic jams of the last two days, there is a good chance that a lot of work will be done at home. This simply means that there will also be less cleaning or less catering. So that also means that these companies will have to adapt slowly. One last by-word, very briefly, is, of course, the great risk of fraud. Of course, that also starts to get bigger as we leave things open. So that's another side argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	Those are all valid arguments, but the fact remains that you are just screwed if you now have a restaurant tent that depends on the nighthoreca. Then it must be possible to continue in the same way in that TVL 2.0 instead of having to finish in general according to your arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	No. 'Cause again, if you really can't open up, you're gonna get that 50% turnover loss, so you're gonna have that safety net from that TVL 2.0. At the same time, we also see that, as aid is reduced, there is also an incentive to take action. I know a number of party cafes in the city that cannot be open at night, saying: but I am going to try to open up to make a shift happen anyway. For example, they open early. So there are all kinds of movements in the sectors, which also gives you an incentive to start doing business again. I only think that this is very healthy, because it will restore entrepreneurial activity. That's what you want, instead of focusing on the RVO to get support there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	Yeah, finally. I think this is my last interruption as well. I think it's a huge leap from 30% to 50%. For a lot of entrepreneurs, that's really going to be the neckbeat, and I think it's a little weird that the VVD, who used to stand up for the entrepreneurs, says, "Well, then you have to start doing something different and it's all changed again postcorona." I will table a motion to continue to apply that 30% and not to go back to 50%. I hope you'll support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	No, because if you stand up for entrepreneurs, you will have to acknowledge that those entrepreneurs are the ones who love realism and will say: if a market has changed, I refer once again to those cleaners in an office building, it is realistic and healthy in a healthy capitalist market economy, where I, as a VVD man, still greatly lag behind, especially to adapt to that market, so that you can earn your own healthy sandwich afterwards. That's healthier than looking at the government for state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	We share with the VVD that there are still a number of sectors and companies that still need support. I have two questions. The first is where the VVD lies, in which sectors and in which companies? I have just mentioned a number in my contribution. Who should have the TVL 2 available for the VVD? The second question is: what is the VVD doing with the people who work there, with the support that might also be needed to keep people in service, with thezzp'ers, I have just mentioned a few of them who, for example, work in the cultural sector and still cannot earn dry bread? How does the VVD see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	We all know here after a year and a half that it is not possible, unfortunately, but we have to be honest about this in order to target these arrangements on a number of sectors. We tried that once. It was called the SBI codes. That still scares me awake sometimes from nightmares, and with me a lot of people I think. So that's not a passable path. So you're gonna have to open this wide. Hence the turnover threshold. Then the employees. I think that is a very complicated question, because you are trying to give these companies a little bit of support. You hope, of course, that from November, everything will be just as it was. But at the same time, the alternative will be: wage subsidies. I was just having a conversation with Mrs Maatoug about the huge cut we are currently having on the labour market. Again, entrepreneurs no longer know how to get people. Then I find it very complicated to start giving wage subsidies, while on the other hand traveling to New York is offered if you continue to work with someone for more than a year. That's a bit at odds with each other, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	I'm happy with the first answer. So the VVD says of this: there should simply remain support for the fixed charges for all companies in the Netherlands with sufficient turnover losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	I also support Van Haga's plea to secure that 30%, but I understand that the VVD does not want that. The second part about these workers: we have of course done so for a year and a half. Just when we're really on that very last piece, the VVD says: we need to take a look at that. We need to see what the new reality is; those people have to work elsewhere. But the VVD could have said that a while back. What makes the VVD say at the moment: we are really dropping these workers for a while, the employers have to say goodbye and they have to go elsewhere to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	You don't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u59	That's the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u60	You don't hear me say that. Again, you are in a very tight situation, in which it is harmful to continue to grant subsidies for a long time. We just have to be honest about it, that's not good. This also affects mobility in the labour market. Some entrepreneurs will say: we keep these people in service. In some situations, we have to be honest about this too, and this has often happened, for example in those sectors which are still 100% closed. Of course, they have been closed for 19 months. Those are sectors where people sit at home, no matter who the partner says: "Listen, darling, everything is nice and nice, but you've been sitting at home with that NOW for 19 months now. Maybe you should take a look around in that hugely tight labour market." We just have to be realistic about that. This has therefore been the effect of these aid packages on the labour market. That is why I think it is healthy for you to say on that part: just leave the labour market as it is, because there is already enough disruptive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u61	I was already a little afraid of this answer, because that would mean that, for example, the museum I mentioned as an example, with a turnover loss of 60%, will receive support for the fixed costs, but that it will have to fire 40% or 50% of the staff and therefore simply cannot open up. That's the consequence. This set-up of the VVD makes things go wrong, gets laid off and companies shut down because they have to let people go. In my opinion the VVD has not yet fully considered this and the VVD does not yet fully see what the consequence of what is being said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u62	No, because you'll have to see why a company, or in this case a museum, has turnover losses and what the future prospects are. I think you should be honest with the people who work there. Let's take that museum of yours as an example. Suppose the museum is in Amsterdam. Then it will miss huge numbers of tourists from the United States, the United Kingdom, China and Asia. Then I ask Mr Van Kent: do you really think that this huge stream of tourists from China will be back in January? I think the honest answer to that is no. In fact, I hope they come back somewhere in the next year. I believe that this will be a lasting effect of a market that adapts in the coming period. I think you should be honest with me. Such a museum will also have to adapt to that and will have to say: I have to check whether I want to focus on the same number of visitors or whether I may have to assume that I will get fewer visitors in the short term, because it will just stay that way for the coming years. Then you should also be honest, perhaps that with the Socialist Party is different. Of course, the government cannot continue to grant wage subsidies for the next two, three or four years because the tourist flow after the corona crisis is no longer starting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'd like to get on with this. The VVD now announces that in the coming period a lot of museums, congress centers and other institutions will have to close the doors and fire people, because the future image of the VVD is black, namely: the tourists will never come back; close the tent. Then, of course, it is very bitter that we have spent a year and a half with community money paying salaries and that the VVD, now that we have reached this point, says: "Now the end has been reached. We assume that the situation as it is today will continue for a long time to come. There is still support for the fixed costs, but you must say goodbye to the staff, the employees."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u64	Now Mr Van Kent pretends that I have a button that will get the tourist flow to Amsterdam back on track. If only I had a button like that, I'd push it really hard. I think you should be honest about certain developments. Yes, we have now intervened to keep our country healthy and safe. Before that, we had the corona support. But you can't put your head in the sand for the lasting effects, whether we like them or not, which brings the corona situation. I think it's healthy for you to say: you're gonna have to adapt to that. Again, I hope that tourist stream comes from China, but I don't expect it. Most experts don't expect him. I also think it's gonna take a while, so you have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u65	That's a really hard message. That's a really hard message, because when you get back...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u66	But I can't do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mr Van Kent has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u68	In the country of the VVD it is so that when the tourists come back to the Netherlands, the museums are closed. That's the vision of the future that the VVD is now sketching here. That is also the consequence of the choices the VVD makes here. In my view, that really is a disaster for the country. It is particularly unwise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u69	No. We ask all kinds of organisations, including museums, to adapt slowly. They've had time for that in the last nineteen months. They've been able to prepare for that. Fortunately, so do many organizations. We offer the TVL 2.0, as we agreed, to give these organisations a little more support. But it is unrealistic to say that we will continue to grant wage subsidies until the end of time, just as long as we are back on the corona level. Because then you pretend the world can be copied from before corona to after corona. That does not do justice to reality. It is also not fair for anyone who genuinely tries to earn an honest living.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u70	There are some interruptions. Firstly, Mr Van Dijk, then Mrs Maatoug, then Mr Graus and then Mr Azarkan. First of all, Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u71	It was a little subtlety, but Mr. Aartsen is now talking twice about a company offering travel to New York. I'm more and more interested in which company that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u72	I'm going to forward the vacancy to you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u73	Okay. I'm not applying, but I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u74	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yeah, that's too bad. It may be a pity for you. However, I am going to seek cooperation with you, because Mr Aartsen and I were side by side when it came to the state aid that Booking.com received and the bonuses they paid out at that time. The cabinet then went on the road and, among other things, had a discussion with the temporary employment agencies, because that was also where it took place. They had received substantial state aid and yet bonuses were distributed. Now I'm gonna ask the cabinet for another moral appeal, preferably a little more. The ABU has also said that this is undesirable. You can see that Adecco and Randstad are doing it anyway. Do I find Mr Aartsen by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u76	I will reply to Mr Van Dijk in a moment. I'm going to make the disclaimer that I don't exactly know the cases of Adecco and Randstad, but if Mr Van Dijk agrees with me that that is exactly the same situation as Booking.com, then I can remind him of my remarks about this. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Kent were still soft compared to what I said. I said they were vulture companies. In a situation where we had to save everyone and come up with extra food, the vultures came up there to eat their belly full and then fly away. I have made it quite clear that I think that is irresponsible and immoral. If that situation is similar, I'm sure I'll go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u77	There is certainly still a difference between Booking.com and temporary employment agencies active in the Netherlands and helping a lot of people to work, unfortunately not always in the right way. We still have a whole debate here on the quality of temporary employment agencies, on what they should and should not do in constructions and on the whole labour market policy. What I at least ask of them is normal behaviour, namely to pay back the state aid received either neatly or not to pay out those bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u78	I absolutely agree with that. We have given support precisely because companies fell down differently and because otherwise people threatened to become unemployed. That money needs to be spent on that, too. That had to be set up very quickly. That's why we couldn't think of a hundred thousand rules. That money had to end up in the accounts of all the entrepreneurs who had to pay them at the end of the month. You just have to deal with it nicely, whether you're big or small.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u79	I am very happy to hear that you just have to deal with it nicely and that it has been deliberately chosen to do so, because they wanted to make haste. Does the colleague of the VVD therefore agree with me that a moral appeal is merely in a letter... Let us honestly say that not everyone always reads that letter, certainly not the sentence at the bottom of page four. Does he agree that that moral apple must mean something? Is Mr Van Aartsen, like myself, curious about what the cabinet has done and what it is still considering strengthening these words, which you too are saying very clearly in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u80	I'm always curious. We must also be honest about the fact that we live in a rule of law in which we have agreed rules. If at that time those rules were in place, those were the rules that were in force at the time. You can't say afterwards: we're gonna demand that back. We live in a rule of law. You and I were both there. When we agreed on those rules, we deliberately chose to do it, but the moral appeal I certainly want to do. That's what I'm gonna keep doing. I am certainly curious about what the cabinet has done in that regard. At the same time we make a mental note to ourselves, to say in good Dutch, namely that we can't legally arrange a number of things as quickly as we would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u81	Now I'm confused. We were just saying to each other, we had to hurry, so we couldn't make any rules. That is the debate we had last time in this Chamber. Morality then means that we share the same standards about what we expect from each other. So those aren't rules. You're giving two signals now. One signal is: I'm doing a moral appeal, like the cabinet somewhere in a subtitle on page 4. At the same time, you say: if it's allowed by the rules, it's legal. So which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u82	That last sentence is true anyway. If anything's okay, it's legal. Whether it is desirable is something else; that was your first call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u83	Finally. You made that call clearly and immediately added the subtitle "We were all there." What do you expect from the cabinet about that moral apple? Mr Van Dijk has asked you to do so, and I am asking you now. What do we say today as a room? And what do we want the cabinet to say about the standards we have in the market economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u84	We believe that companies should behave properly, as everyone in this country should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u85	So you're gonna pay me back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u86	If that is the situation, then I think you should repay it, just like Auping did; let us also mention the good examples. At the same time, I say we shouldn't sell each other dead sparrows either. We know it can't be done, so you can't enforce it legally. I do not say that Mrs Maatoug is doing that, but in the previous debate we were all on our heads, we looked at Minister Koolmees a little angry and we said 'you have to get it back', but we also know that that is simply not possible. So we should just call it fair and square.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u87	I have two brief questions for Mr Aartsen. Does he think, first of all, that these measures should have been subject to the SME test? It has once been my plan that every new measure and every new law should be tested for affordability, applicability and workability. The SME test was in my motion. Do you not agree that this should have been the case for emergency measures of this kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u88	There is a fan club of the SME test. Mr Graus is President of this House, and I am Vice-President of it. We have to be honest, I think, that... I think these first measures were kicked out of the ground in a weekend. After that, all kinds of arrangements had to be made up and made. Speed was, moreover, the most important thing, rather than care or efficiency. Then it is difficult to carry out such an SME test properly. It may also be a compliment to all of us here in the Chamber, but I think that a lot of parts that normally came out of the SME test have now been put forward by all of us, all 150. I mention entrepreneurs who got into trouble and got into trouble by all kinds of rules, and also individual cases. We have put this forward in order to possibly help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u89	Then I'll get to the second question, too, but I'll share that. Look, it had to happen so fast, you couldn't do it properly. But now it's clear what the consequences are. And then I'd like to talk about the bankruptcies. They're just kids. They're just kids. They're kids. They're kids, they're kids, they're kids, they're kids, People who, in the years leading up to the lockdown, to the corona measures, simply had a healthy business operation, which they can also submit through audit reports have gone bankrupt. They must now address their private possessions. Don't you think we should do something about that? I'm going to make proposals for it right now. Those people are already so badly hurt. Surely it can't be that they're losing their homes and other private possessions that they've given as collateral, even though they're already in total financial distress and mental distress?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u90	We certainly agree on that. I mentioned this in my speech, but unfortunately I only have four minutes to speak. I also support a D66 proposal on this subject. Look, everyone who studied economics knows that in a healthy economy, too, you are unfortunately dealing with bankruptcies. The fact that companies go bankrupt is part of a healthy economy. But I want to keep people from falling apart because of corona. Sometimes you can't stop entrepreneurs from going bankrupt, from losing their business. But I think it's real that if there are such situations, we're going to see how such an entrepreneur doesn't have to rot for another three or five years in debt restructuring. Let's see how we can say in such a situation: this was really proven by corona. That is also an appeal from me to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. And then we take... and I think we can also learn lessons about how to deal with debt, for example at the moment in the handling of the premium situations. In municipalities, for example. I think these are interesting parts to look at: can we create something like this around entrepreneurs who, in a private situation, risk heading down in the next three to five years? This will at least help to alleviate the problems, because, of course, bankruptcy is always, personally, a huge tragedy, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u91	Thank you. First, Mr Azarkan van DENK can ask a question and then Mrs Van der Plas van BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u92	First of all, I would like to return to what Mr Aartsen calls 'TVL 2.0' and the fixed charges. I think it is good and I myself have also indicated that it should be wider than specifically for nightclubs. You should see which companies depend on that. Mr Aartsen puts away his argument a little easily by saying: travel to New York is being given away. That's gonna be okay. I don't think you can travel to New York at all right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u93	And so a year...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u94	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u95	I think that's a little bad. It kind of suggests that all kinds of organizations do that in a minute. And what is being proposed here is simply not the reality. So I'm acting against that. And you can't even travel to New York. So anyone who offers that to someone who comes to work offers a strange gift, I'll say. However, the argument "we are moving towards a new situation" does not apply. We are dealing with a situation which I think you can organise gradually. That's the thing about the TVL with the 50%. In doing so, you do justice to Mr Aartsen's argument: in that sense, we are building it up a little phasedly. So wouldn't it make sense for you to meet the organizations that have been affected, besides the TVL, to some extent in some sort of NOW scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u96	Firstly, I would be sorry if Mr Azarkan got the wrong impression of my intentions or of the image I was trying to sketch. That's not easy, but it was meant as an example. I also mentioned a number of other examples. They show how tight the labour market is right now. When you talk to people in the hospitality industry, in retail, in manufacturing companies and in many other sectors, you can almost literally see them with your hands in the hair. You can see that restaurants are closed on Mondays and Tuesdays. I mentioned the example of gifts given away. I won't repeat the example of the trip to New York, but he's from the Bredase, where I come from. You don't get that trip until you stay a year, so hopefully we can get back to New York. But the examples above all show how dramatic the situation for entrepreneurs is at the moment. They want to get going, but they get in trouble because they don't have people anymore. They say, "I can't do it anymore." That is the picture that I was trying to put here: we sincerely have another problem in that labour market at the moment. Now I have forgotten Mr Azarkan's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u97	Very briefly. I agree with you on the first. I'm talking to those entrepreneurs, too. I was with a group of young people this week and the biggest problem was living. One said, "I can't find a job." The others didn't recognize it. So I know what you are saying, namely that a lot of entrepreneurs, especially in the catering industry, are in the hair. My point is different, because that was about the part that I said: if you could compensate for the fixed costs of an entrepreneur who is still affected from 50%, you could also provide support in the form of staff costs. Wouldn't that be just?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u98	It's complicated for me. Because then you come to the instrument of wage subsidies, which I find very complicated in that tight labour market. In addition, you cannot put a fence around a sector and support it with wage subsidies. Then you come to the problem that we have actually been facing for nineteen months, namely that we can only give generic support. The advantage of the TVL 2.0 is that we can use it for all companies, including the taxi drivers you came up with; they can also use it. The downside is that you can't support one part; you have to do it wide. Then you'll get back to the dilemma I just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u99	I think that is too easy and the argument is not valid either. The interesting thing is that, throughout the corona crisis, the argument of the percentage of jobseekers is not valid at all. That's two tenths up: from 3.4 to 3.7, and now back to 3.5. That's almost friction unemployment. It's been like that all these times, and yet that's how we did it. So it is not about what the labour market situation is, it is about helping entrepreneurs and saving jobs. Because with entrepreneurs who are going to take staff away from each other, we're not getting anywhere. If one offers something more, so that the other really can't turn, we get bankruptcies and entrepreneurs who stop. You need to protect that a little bit, too. Is it not fair to say in that phase-out, if you go up to 50%, as far as I am concerned, that 70% may be said: only fixed charges are not enough; that is half. You're gonna have to watch how you do the personnel costs, or you're not gonna have anything to do as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u100	I will mention two arguments as to why that would be unwise. Again, you can only provide generic wage costs subsidies. Then you're gonna have to set up these wage costs subsidies for the whole business. We have to be honest about the labour market: it is different than when almost the entire economy was locked up, because now the entire economy is almost finished, which is really a different situation. You can only do that generically. In addition, there are also sectors I just mentioned all the cleaners of offices that are looking for adaptation. If you are going to give labour cost subsidies to that again, then you are going to do damage to the economy again. I do not think that is wise for the future adaptability of our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u101	Finally. I always tell you not to add the number of arguments, but to weigh them. You can give three, four or five, but that doesn't make it any better than it should be. I note that Mr Aartsen is sticking to his point of view, but I think we are running the risk that quite a few companies, which are really suffering from corona, will have to go into bankruptcy, so that those entrepreneurs will have to do something else. They're gonna have to check in with the municipalities later. But I think those safety net arrangements are gonna be late. In this situation, we really need to look at which entrepreneurs have been affected. We cannot simply say: we have done it something like this now, we limit it enormously and figure it out just a little bit. It's too vulnerable for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u102	I do not add up the arguments, but I outline the dilemma we are currently in: given the limited instruments, you cannot do everything. Then you find the right balance. Then I think it is wise that there is indeed a fixed-cost scheme that is wider than just available for the nighthoreca. But I find it complicated to start providing generic wage subsidies for all companies in this labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr Aartsen's comment on bankruptcies triggered me for a moment. He says, "bankruptcies are part of an economy." But, of course, we're in a very strange economy right now. Companies that go bankrupt do not go bankrupt because they do bad work, because there is no market for it or because they have not made a good vision for the future, they go bankrupt because they are victims of all the corona measures. Whether they are correct or not, I leave them in the middle for a while, but the government has actually said to the business community, especially in the first period: you have to lock up, you can't do this, you can't. It's the government that does that. Entrepreneurs often find themselves in an impossible position: they do want to undertake, but they cannot undertake, because the government says that you cannot continue your business as you did before. I find it strange, my question is that the VVD says: bankruptcies are part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u104	Then you'll twist a little bit of what I said. Our starting point has always been: as long as the government says to a company "you have to lock the door to keep our country safe and healthy," then the government must provide support. That's what we've been doing for the past 19 months. What I'm sketching is this. We are now slowly going back to the old normal and with that old normal or the old economy, the situation is so that as a government you can never prevent one hundred percent of bankruptcies, however much you would like to. Also in a situation where the economy is running extremely well, you have entrepreneurs who are going bankrupt. That's a personal tragedy, but it's part of an economy, whether we like it or not. It's unrelated to corona. I said in the discussion with Mr Graus that we should try to avoid such situations. That is what we are trying to do with all kinds of regulations, with credits etc., etc., including deferred taxes and debt cancellation, which I shall come up with in a moment. We must at all costs try to prevent bankruptcies due to corona, but if we do, we cannot help every entrepreneur, however much we would like it to be; one time, unfortunately, a company will go bankrupt because of corona........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u105	You're saying we're going back to the old normal. So we're not there yet. Let me mention the example of the cleaning industry, which is indirectly a victim of all measures. They can no longer clean everywhere, because the number of tourists has fallen and they simply suffer from it. This concerns very good cleaning companies and perhaps also less good ones. If you say "we're going back to the old normal," then you should keep saying: as long as we're not in the old normal where everything is open without any restriction and it's back to the entrepreneur to do, as he always did, without the government saying "you can't do it and you can't do it," is it normal that you still pay back those companies, entrepreneurs and sectors? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u106	We're almost back to the old normal. A number of sectors are still mandatory closed, such as nighthoreca. There are also some small restrictions on the left and right. Fortunately, you can see that by letting go of the 1.5 meters many sectors get some space again and finally, I would almost like to say that I can do beautiful things again. In situations in which people are restricted about 75% at the events, the nighthoreca.... there is support, such as the supplement scheme. The rest goes back to the old normal, like we had. But I think it's complicated that I'm trying to sketch that situations have sometimes changed. There are people who are going to work more at home. When I work at home for a day, here in The Hague I don't eat a sandwich at a sandwich tent or go somewhere to have a cup of coffee here in The Hague. This might affect this entrepreneur here in The Hague, while an entrepreneur in Breda is taking advantage of it again, because all those people in Breda work at home. Those are situations that we cannot resolve. This will have a lasting effect on society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u107	That is a different situation, because then we are out of the corona measures and then everything is back to normal. That society has changed, that's right. People are gonna work more at home. They've seen the benefits of that, too. Then you can say to entrepreneurs: in the new situation you have to respond in one way or another. But as long as we are still in the existing situation in which the government imposes restrictions on entrepreneurs to do something in terms of enterprise, the nighthoreca is an example, in my opinion it should simply be so that the government also reimburses it. The government is there for citizens and not the other way around. You agree with that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yeah, we agree. That is why I am pleased that there are schemes that also provide that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u109	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u110	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the problem debts. We know about two things for sure in life, as is sometimes said: you once give the pipe to Maarten and you have to pay taxes. Unfortunately, you can't cancel the outstanding taxes for everyone. That would not be good either, and that would not be fair to entrepreneurs who have recently paid to the Tax Office. I do think we should look at a waiver of problem debts. If an entrepreneur is going to suffer from these debts for years to come, it is probably better, from the Tax Administration and private parties, to cancel those debts. Otherwise, a company will be burdened with this for years to come. It will then be a millstone and will no longer make any new investments. That's what's keeping the economy locked up. I wonder what steps the cabinet is going to take when it comes to absolving problem debts. In the previous debate, I drew attention to the handling of the aid packages. Mr Azarkan rightly congratulated all the implementing organisations. We are far from there, because the execution at the UWV, at RVO, at municipalities and at the Tax Office becomes a mega operation. We're only at NOW 1 and 2, and then there's 3, 4 and 5. At the time, I tabled a motion for a single civil service team to discuss case law. I have to say I was happy to see this happen, but what I got back from the cabinet was a little economical. I wonder what progress we can see in this. Is the Cabinet prepared to agree that it will send the Chamber a quarterly monitor on the handling of all corona arrangements? That would be in line with the recommendations of the Bosman Committee and the Van Dam Committee. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the event sector. Following the hard intervention in July, an arrangement was announced for, for example, neighborhood parties, which were banned between 10 July and 20 September. What about this fee right now? I understand from municipalities that they still haven't heard of this, while those neighborhood parties have to pay the bills by now. I call on the cabinet to make quick agreements on this, if necessary with the advantage of municipalities, because it cannot be that these small neighbourhood associations should wait until we have finally, probably via Brussels, put in place an arrangement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u111	Thank you. I'm still seeing a few more interruptions. First, Mr Azarkan, then Mr Amhaouch and then Mr Eerdmans. Or no, not Mr. Eerdmans. He's just standing there. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mr Aartsen spoke about debt forgiveness in one form or another. We have seen that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank has suggested this a number of times, but the Minister does not really want that. I can tell Mr Aartsen that he says: I think we should look at that. Can he provide a number of criteria on which we should do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u113	It is a good thing that Mr Azarkan is asking this question, because I would not like to sit in the basket of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, who calls for everything to be rejected. We certainly shouldn't. Again, you're supposed to be paying taxes in this country. It is also right for the entrepreneurs who have paid to do so. I can imagine the following about a number of companies in a number of sectors. See what a healthy exploitation is where you end up with a gross annual profit. If you do that amount times five, this means that an entrepreneur would have to use his full gross annual profit for five years to pay off his debts. If that still doesn't work, it's gonna be annoying, because that means that an entrepreneur like that stands still. It can't invest, it can't hire new people, it can't buy a new van, it can't develop things. Then you are de facto locked and actually lagging behind. Then it becomes a bit of a bankruptcy in slow motion. I'd like to avoid that. I think it makes sense for a tax administration, probably together with private creditors, to look at: isn't it wiser to sit together and take our losses? Such a company can go through, such an entrepreneur can go through, the people who work there can go through. Then, above all, we have a healthy business for our Dutch economy, because of course we want to keep it. I come up with these criteria myself, but I think there are smarter people working at the IRS than I do to come up with these kinds of things. I think it would be a good idea for the cabinet to come up with an action plan which states: these are the criteria, and if you meet them, we can talk about forgiveness, because the alternative is worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u114	This is a special argument, and also a special criterion. What Mr Aartsen often assumes in the corona debates is the adaptability of entrepreneurs. In the previous debate on the interruptions, he said: it is also time for entrepreneurs to learn to adapt. Now he's actually saying something really crazy. He says: if we leave the circumstances about the same over the next five years, with the best estimate, the entrepreneur makes too little profit compared to the debts he has and doesn't give him anything on balance, then we have to get rid of those debts. That's crazy, too. Mr. Aartsen is an intelligent man. Undoubtedly, there are very intelligent people working at the Tax Office, who are even more intelligent than Mr Aartsen and I. But that criterion is a very short one. I'm also looking at what we need to do with these problematic debts. But once again, especially small entrepreneurs may find themselves in the situation in which they have borrowed within their own family. They've done everything they can to sell what they had in possessions. Sometimes, for example, they sold their building and had to rent it back, which is two or three times more expensive, while others didn't. I'm looking for what's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u115	That justice is very complicated. Let me correct the image again. It is not that I put here on the back of a beer skin: five times gross annual gain has been lost. That is why I think it is wise for smart people to come to the Tax Administration with an action plan for this. I will also table a motion on this. I think we should think about that. Because you can say it's not just and we can't figure it out, so we don't do anything. But the result may also be that healthy companies fall over, that they need to fire people unnecessarily and go bankrupt, because they succumb to their debts. Despite the fact that I recognize that difficult discussion, I believe that Mr Azarkan and I have the same struggle, I think that doing nothing could be the worst thing to do. When we say, "It's a difficult discussion, we don't think about it and we don't do anything at all," I'm sure there's going to be a group of companies that are going to collapse under their debts and that people are going to end up in the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u117	Finally, Mr President. We read in the Minister's letter that interest may rise to 4% in the repayment scheme. I thought: that's probably logical, because that goes for normal interest rates, for other entrepreneurs, with the government and so on. But why not just some kind of coronarente for specifically those debts? Then we agree to keep interest on those debts 0%, as far as I am concerned. This is also the percentage against which the government borrows, which is even -0.2%. Could you say, specifically for those debts, the interest rate is not going to rise to that 4%, but we're keeping it at 0%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u118	I think that's an interesting thought. I could now say very politically: I am going to ask the cabinet for a response. It's an interesting thought. I should think about that. I see advantages in both cases. What I want to avoid is that you have entrepreneurs who have to succumb to their debts for five years, that they don't invest and say, "I see an opportunity. I can make a quote out of it. I can buy a new bus. I can invest in a new store design that I actually need. But since I have such a high corona debt, because I still carry that burden with me a few years ago, I can't move forward. As a result, I miss opportunities in the market and I run the risk of having to fire people immediately because I'm going bankrupt." That's what I'm trying to prevent. Along which criteria or interest rates that happens, I am at all interested. The goal is clear to me. I would like the cabinet to proceed to avoid that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mr Aartsen made a right point about these smaller events: the village events, the village castles and the associations. One day they were not allowed to continue the events that were already in place in July. Now they must indeed wait until I believe that in the last letter from the It is right that the municipalities may play an active role in this. But I also get signals from the event sector, from the music festivals that want to do so. They say: we do not want money, but we do want to claim that guarantee. I know that we cannot all oversee the policy for this in the corona time. That is sometimes fickle, depending on the situation. But how does Mr Aartsen look at an event on which the cabinet in the scheme says that an application must be made at least three months in advance, if the application is made two or two and a half months in advance and meets everything? How do we deal with that in the spirit of that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u120	I think Mr Amhaouch received the same e-mail from a Limburg band as I did. I certainly share the same concern. The purpose of the guarantee scheme is as follows: Entrepreneurs have a certain risk. They say, "Wait a minute, I can start organizing something on that date, but do I know what measures the cabinet is going to take? Imagine if they canceled it. I'll go head-down. I don't have insurance." This is the purpose of the guarantee scheme. Whether you have to file that three months or three weeks in advance is genuinely up to me. I'm sure I'll pass on that question to the cabinet. I would almost say: RVO, UWV and other organizations have always dealt with cases of this kind very neatly, so I wish that they would do so again in these situations. I think the target is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Dijk, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u122	I would like to come back to that problematic debt. What exactly is a problematic debt? This could apply to a company that has incurred all kinds of debts due to corona, some of which may be directly due to corona, some of which may be indirect. But it also applies to a lot of individuals, just people in the country. They've also been in debt. They've postponed spending, whether they've made an investment, or they've borrowed it from family. Where does that end? If we're gonna talk about problematic debt, we're gonna go wide as far as I'm concerned. Then I'll come straight to the problem I see. I think we should look at payment periods that are longer than usual. I mean, we're really giving a company time to recover, we're assisting individuals and we're looking at debt, and we're giving more time than usual: not the government first. Purely the companies with only problematic debts are called. I'd rather go wide. Do you understand my dilemma in this? If we are going to problem that, I can problem a lot of people in the country with a huge debt mountain. If we're gonna get started, let's have that group, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u123	I would like to make two comments. I have many views about what should happen in society, but I would like to limit it to corona and what is happening in connection with corona for this debate. That is why we are talking about this tax debt by corona, not other forms of debt by the Tax Administration or by the government. That's one. I really want to put a fence around Corona. In my view, we should try to avoid that conversation with Mr Azarkan too, that we are getting bogged down politically in the discussion, by broadening it or deepening it, by saying "it's all complicated" or by talking about justice. Those are legitimate discussions. But we have to stop us from doing anything. If we don't do something, I'm sure we'll soon have a group of companies whose debt is so high that they'll tell their 60 employees, "There's the UWV. That's where you'd best go. I'm going to file for bankruptcy, because this doesn't make any sense. I can't join the economy. I can't invest. I can't move forward. I'd better quit." Then we gave the corona support for Jan with the short last name, because then the company still falls over and then those people end up on the street. And then we still lose that debt, because then a company goes bankrupt and the Tax Office doesn't get its money back either. Then I think it makes more sense for you to sit down for a few weeks and ask: how can we handle this in a good way, so that such a company can get through, people keep their jobs and the debt can be solved in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at Mr. Stoffer. Is he ready to make his contribution? Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u125	Mr President, thank you. The future is uncertain. This is particularly true for many entrepreneurs. This applies to the entrepreneur who is hacking into a high level of debt and to entrepreneurs in the travel sector, for whom the future is uncertain. This applies to the coach industry, group accommodation and other seasonal companies for which the low season begins. But it also applies to thosezzp'ers, unemployed and many entrepreneurs who are wondering: how to proceed? There may be some rays of sunshine in those dark clouds of the corona crisis, for many entrepreneurs it is still storming. That certainly applies to the catering companies. Because because of the corona pass they had to deal with an increase in the measures. The SGP is very clear in that. Today we are not having the corona-care debate, but as far as we are concerned, the corona-pas has already had its longest time. As far as we are concerned, this pass must be made as soon as possible. It is not necessary, however, that the Commission should be able to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and which have been It limits people's freedom of movement and it's bad for the hospitality industry. That is why I ask the Cabinet whether it is prepared to examine whether it is possible for entrepreneurs to choose to handle the 1.5 meter instead of the corona pass. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to set up the VLN scheme, especially for nightclubs. My question is this: can the whole hospitality industry and other entrepreneurs make use of this? Look beyond the event companies and nightclubs and come up with customization for sectors where the problems are also big. That's my call to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Many entrepreneurs not only have debts with the Tax Administration, but also debts with many other creditors. During the previous debate, I tabled a motion to simplify the payment of these debts. The letter of 31 August last states that work is being done on this. My question is how it stands. How does the Minister prevent the mountain of debt from being a liability to the entrepreneurial leg? There are many ways to support entrepreneurs in removing debt, but now only small steps are being taken, such as the creation of a debt fund containing EUR 30 million. My questions to the cabinet are as follows. Why doesn't the Cabinet opt for a much broader debt approach? Is the Cabinet prepared to take stock of the possibilities for a broad, robust debt approach? Secondly, I am really concerned about the reimbursement of corona aid. I have therefore asked several written questions about it. This is not good for some entrepreneurs, particularly on two points. In the TVL, the cost of audit reports is often high, especially for small entrepreneurs. In this case, the process of refunding varies by scheme, for example when it comes to deadlines and turnover definitions. My question to the Minister is what possibilities he sees for more coordination between the various schemes, so that entrepreneurs do not have to incur high costs for each scheme and tranche. The handling of objections is also difficult, as I hear from several entrepreneurs. Sometimes they have to wait a long time for decisions, while they're shy of money. In response to several written questions, it has been indicated that the UWV deals smoothly with objections, but I hear stories about entrepreneurs stuck in bureaucracy. It's not easy for every small entrepreneur to go through that whole mill. And we're only at the beginning of paying back corona support. So my question to the Minister is: how is he going to ensure that more time and more energy goes there, so that entrepreneurs are helped quickly and well? Mr. Chairman. Some sectors will not fully recover in the coming years. Think, for example, of the travel sector or the event industry. My final question is therefore: how does the government support these sectors? As far as I am concerned, look at this broadly, so that there is a longer-term perspective for the people working in this sector as well. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Madam President. I always miss the Service Report and Editorial Service here. They're sitting on a balcony like muppets now. I'm sorry they're not in the middle anymore. I thought they deserved that, too, that centerpiece. Madam President. Certain groups of entrepreneurs remain in financial need and continue to face financial needs. I would like to mention a few. They have already been mentioned by many colleagues: the catering industry and specifically the nighthoreca, the event industry, travel organizations and travel agencies. I also mention specific coach companies. Last year, together with my colleague Roy van Aalst, I made it quite explicit: the tourism sector, let us call it that. But how many entrepreneurs are we talking about? According to the Netherlands-SME, this is even 6,000 entrepreneurs, but it is at least thousands of people who are still in serious trouble. The PVV wants, for example, the Meeting of Fixed Charges and other support measures for all these entrepreneurs to continue for as long as this is necessary. Let's start; maybe a quarter is enough. I don't know; I don't have a glass ball. I think that the Ministry has a lot more experts in this area to find out all of this, but at least it all needs to be extended. It has to go through. How many entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt because of the lockdown and other corona measures? I'd really like to know. I am also prepared to table a motion on it, because we really need it. We want to know that, as well as where the financial coverage should come from and how that happens. This may be done by removing it from the budget deficit. But I'm talking about people who didn't quit voluntarily. I think that people, entrepreneurs, who have gone bankrupt, are now completely out of business. I think that's quite outrageous. I was just talking about it in an interrupting debate with my colleague, Mr Aartsen, so I will not go on about it anymore. But they can often produce an audit report. Then they can show that they had positive figures prior to the lockdown. They've often given private assets as collateral. And now those private possessions need to be addressed. It can't be that those severely injured people lose their private property, even though they're already in big trouble. We have to help these people financially, mentally and therefore also physically mentally and physically I always mix up. We can't leave them to their fate. They didn't choose this. I heard VNO-NCW was talking about a fund. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. Do we have to set up a fund for that? What are the solutions? zzp'ers should also be supported, and should continue to be supported when it appears that orders for the same reasons have not been and remain in place during the lockdown. In short, I would like to repeat it briefly and forcefully. I would like to ask the government to continue the financial support measures, where necessary and necessary, for entrepreneurs, and thus forzzp'ers, who have been in financial difficulties due to the corona measures. It is indeed what Mr. Aartsen said. Of course, the aid measures were all designed in the turbo stand. Hallowed for that, but we can still apply the SME test to see what consequences there are. Let us be clear: the SME test is doing its job well. It is also used in agriculture. And why should this not happen afterwards, now that it has happened at that high speed? I would like to ask the government to stop unnecessarily obstructive measures on a perimeter basis. I also want to have examined how many entrepreneurs went bankrupt during and/or because of the lockdown, so, again, did not voluntarily stop, and by means of an audit report can prove that a company had positive figures prior to the corona measures. How can they be compensated if necessary? That's what I'd like to know. Finally, I would like to ask my fellow Members the following: there are always two camps when it comes to this. Some people want it to go on. Some people don't want it to happen. I am a later speaker, number eight on the list, so when colleagues submit motions in my line, I sign with them. Then I won't have to file that motion myself. I've already prepared three. That saves a lot of administrative burdens. We must be a beautiful orchestra for entrepreneurs and not want to play too much solo on the first violin, because that does not help entrepreneurs, nor does the administrative burden on the Chamber. A blessed evening, for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Graus. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Bread on the shelf and employment are important pillars of our economy. It is important to build security of existence, to provide income, to develop and to do so. This is exactly what came under so much pressure in the corona crisis. Fortunately, large support measures have been successful in reducing the damage to our society, maintaining jobs and supporting entrepreneurs and their families. Mr. Chairman. As spokesman for Economic Affairs, I stand here with mixed feelings. On the one hand, I see the numbers. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling, the number of bankruptcies is historically low and the amount of WW and welfare benefits is falling. There are also companies that, despite corona and corona support, saw their turnover grow in 2020. That is good news and thanks to the resilience of our economy, of companies and their employees, and the effectiveness of these support packages. The Netherlands is doing better in this respect than the countries around us. Mr. Chairman. On average, things may be even better, but if you zoom in from macro to micro, you can see that certain sectors and entrepreneurs are still struggling and are still affected for a long time, such as culture, catering and events. For example, 80,000 entrepreneurs are struggling with the maintenance of the corona pass. A measure that the CDA has only been able to accept if it is temporary and as short as possible. As for the VLN, we are very happy for the nighthoreca. But how does the cabinet deal with duped companies from other sectors, such as travel agencies and coach companies, who apply for the VLN and meet the conditions? Then about the ATE, the event grant. Mr Aartsen has already spoken about this in detail. We would like to hear an answer to the question of whether the municipalities can help in the short term and which local, small catering entrepreneurs do not have to wait until the end of the year. Mr Aartsen also mentioned an email from a Limburg band. As a Limburg representative, I have to mention them myself, namely Rowwen Hèze. That is a band that has been organizing a final festival for over twenty years in a row for three days, with 8,000 people a day. Apparently they're pissing next to the pot because they're not filing the request three months in advance but two months or two and a half months. I assume that every province is proud of its own events. Let those entrepreneurs take action, I'd say. Except for the event industry, 2020 and 2021 are lost seasons for many other sectors. Take, for example, the tourism sector and the congress market or capital-intensive companies such as coach and tour companies and carnival companies that do not have sufficient buffer to get through the winter months. Is it possible to provide tailor-made services for these sectors if they so wish, for example by extending existing guarantee schemes or by providing sector-specific capital support through, for example, the ROMs? Seven of the twelve provinces of our country border Belgium and Germany. During the corona crisis, the Netherlands concluded agreements with Belgium and Germany to prevent domestic frontier workers from being taxed both in the country of work and in the country of residence. These agreements are coming to an end. How does this cabinet look at pulling it through? Because we need these people very much. Then I'll come to the end. According to the cabinet letter of 30 August, the means of reintegration are scaled down because the economy is attracted. We wonder if this is wise. After all, debt restructuring forzzp'ers is expected to increase after the Tozo has ceased. Tens of thousands of people are about to return to the labour market, and our sectors are facing major staff shortages in the meantime. Shouldn't we invest more now and focus on reintegration instead of less? After all, we need everyone. I see some movement from my corners of the eye, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u130	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u131	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u132	Then perhaps you'd like to finish up first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u133	The last little block, Mr. Chairman. In addition to the mismatch in the labour market, the CDA is also deeply concerned about the impact of capacity shortages and the supply problems that indirectly affect stakeholders. I refer to the shortage of construction and basic materials and high fuel and land prices. The CDA is therefore a bit the alarm clock on this issue so that we do not end up in another crisis. Does the cabinet have that clear on the retina and how does it proactively deal with this? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. There are indeed some interruptions, starting with the last interruption by Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u135	During my speech, the letter from the Treasury came in on the implementation of the motion concerning the coronasolidarity levy. It outlines a number of scenarios. There are actually two remaining: the SME exemption and corporate tax, the profit tax. Have you been able to take note of this letter and what is the best form of the solidarity levy you asked for in the motion for a resolution? Will we then put forward a proposal together and instruct the cabinet to act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u136	I haven't read the letter yet, but I do understand that it just came in. We're still in it. In the debate before the summer recess, our thought was that there are also companies who have done well in the corona crisis. In the letter of 28 September, ten pages long, it says that around 10% of companies had more turnover in 2020 than in the year before. I'll take that letter to me. We must then indeed see how it could be done. We shouldn't be forced to do things. We talked about the Vpb increase last week during the General Reviews. So if there are any serious options, I think we should look at them together. That motion of ours has been adopted quite widely, with the exception of the VVD and perhaps another party. Let us look together at what is wise to give substance to the solidarity levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u137	Mr De Jong of D66 and then Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u138	I haven't seen the letter either, so like you, I can't say anything about it. Mr Aartsen just said in the debate: let us call the animal, the solidarity levy, by name. I propose that we now call it the Hoekstralevage, because that is what it comes down to. I am curious: are you going to put forward a proposal for this so-called Hoekstralevage today? Because we saw last week that we could raise the Vpb together. We can do good things with that. You think I am on your side to see how we can do that, but my question to you is: are you going to come up with a proposal for that levy today? Companies that have done well already pay the Vpb. They have contributed to the recovery capacity of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u139	I think D66 is one of the co-signatorys of the solidarity levy. Anyone can give a name to that. Mr Aartsen said today: it looks like a duck, it runs like a duck and it quacks like a duck, so it is a duck. How he gives that hands and feet, he has to know for himself, but raising the Vpb can be a solution. I haven't taken the letter to me yet. We are not in favour of just doing something about the increase in the burden on business. Let's see what we can do smart. We have the motion stating that there will be a number of policy options. I believe that the outcome of the motion is contained in the letter we received today. I heard Mr Van Kent mention a number of suggestions contained in the letter. I haven't read the letter yet. You're one of the co-signators. Let's take the letter and see what's wise and smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u140	I'm glad you did. Fortunately, Mr Amhaouch knows my party as a party that wants to work together. That is not possible at the moment at the formation table, but these are matters that we have to deal with there when it comes to company policy. I am a co-signator, because it is about involving the business community fairly in order to see how we can offer sustainable solutions. I'm just curious if you say today: I'm going to speed it up. You say you're not gonna do that right now, but you're gonna take the letter. I'm happy about that. I am concerned that we should help the companies that are still struggling to do so. Of the companies where things are going very well, we need to realise what contribution they are making now. I wonder if Mr Amhaouch agrees with me. Companies that have done well and have achieved turnover are actually helping to maintain the competitiveness and international position we have here in the Netherlands. I hope that Mr Amhaouch can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u141	I absolutely agree with that, but I did not know that it was not possible at the formation table, because I am waiting for today's latest signals. I hope there will be white smoke. I don't know if there's any news, so let's give hope and optimism here. Then our leaders and heads of women can try to reach an agreement, or at least to start an agreement. I agree that we should not undermine our competitive position. I also agree that we shouldn't do anything crazy. We're not gonna do that tomorrow. Again, hopefully we're going to have a new pomegranate what's it called? Get ready for formation. If there's anything meaningful in the letter about how we can do it, whether it's via the Vpb or through another arrangement, then we'll figure out how to handle it. I don't think you should do that ad hoc today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u142	I agree with Mr Amhaouch that we should not do anything crazy. I therefore hope that we can move that Corner Straw to the list of crazy things. In the letter I scanned it as quickly as I saw something I said last time: you cannot levy tax with retroactive effect. It can't be! You can't say: in 2020, companies did well, so we are going to send an invoice with retroactive effect in 2022. It can't be. All you can do is raise taxes for companies next year, but then I'd like to know from the CDA: does the CDA want to do that? For example, are the companies that organise weddings, which have created for two years during corona, who are finally going to catch up and make a little profit to get fat back on their bones, are they or are they not getting Hoekstraleving?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u143	I understand that today is the time for framing: the 'Hoekstraleving'. The heart of the argument we made last time was solidarity. Again, I think that's what signed the entire Chamber, except for the VVD. Are we prepared to shape solidarity in society and in business, among those who have worked a lot? You can do that in a targeted way. You can speak of a Vpb increase, a tax increase, let's call it fair by name of a certain percentage. I don't know if that scenario is in there, but let's have that discussion. If you do not like to join us, Mr Aartsen, we will look with the rest of the Chamber to see if we can find anything similar to a solidarity levy. Another name may be, but the core thing is that we come out of this crisis together. Because we went in together, we're almost there, and we'll figure it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u144	We can make names up what we want, but then I don't care what the entrepreneur is at the top of the invoice; he cares what he has to pay. Again, we have to be honest about that. You can't have solidarity with retroactive effect through taxes or a Corner Straw... All you can do is increase the tax for entrepreneurs who are finally going to make a little profit next year and finally get some fat again. My question is quite simple: does the CDA want to raise taxes for those companies that have had such a hard time over the past two years due to corona and will the CDA then introduce an additional tax in the catching-up year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u145	The first question is whether the VVD has something with solidarity. That's the basic question. Then I hear Mr. Aartsen... he's talking through it right now outside the microphone. Then I hear Mr Aartsen come back every time he has done that three or four times on the technical implementation; he says it cannot be done retroactively. Solidarity can also be organized forward. If we are still familiar with the scenarios, but I do not want to be able to repeat a temporary increase somewhere, because that is also what that motion says, then we need to discuss it. I see there's a lot of support in this Chamber to discuss that. Maybe we'll get a broad coalition where that can be arranged. I hope you'll be there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u146	A nice political trick from Mr. Amhaouch. I will remove the introduction to my previous question and just repeat the same question: is the CDA going to increase the tax for those companies that are going to overtake their profits for the past two years next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u147	I'm saying that could be a scenario. I also assume that, in this case, we are talking about temporary tariffs. If it wasn't, we wouldn't have said it in the front. That's obvious. Just call it; it's a duck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u148	It is good not only to express optimism, but also, in line with the debate last time, to add the deed to the word. You replied: the aim is to adapt the Tax Plan. Would the CDA colleague, I know that you can read very quickly in the second term that proposal, the letter, would like to take so that we can quickly take steps to fix it for the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u149	No, I'm not going along with that. Why not? You don't go through a tax plan like that on an ad hoc basis. If we come to an agreement on how we're going to do that, we're going to organize it neatly. I hope that we can organise this through the policy of the next four years. I don't know which parties are going to do that. I sincerely hope that we can reach a constructive solution today. That's a call to all our leaders. I hope that GroenLinks too would like to participate. I hope that we can find a solution to this and not pee a game where we have to have something in a tax plan tomorrow, when we haven't taken it very well. Mr. Stoffer, excuse me for the use of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u150	I did not interfere with the words of Mr Amhaouch, but I do have doubts about their content. My colleague from the VVD has just indicated that it will not succeed with retroactive effect. I think that already came out. Do I now have to conclude that if the CDA enters a new coalition in the near future, that is where the proposal is specifically on the table to increase the burden on business? I say this in the light of what I have just shared in my contribution, namely that there are a huge number of companies that still have a huge amount of tax debt. How are you gonna do that? I always say that every euro you want to spend must first be earned by that business. So these seem to me to be totally contradictory. I like it when Mr. Amhaouch says: we have an idea and we move it forward. I would really like to have concrete: who does that end up with? And how do we do that? Then what does the CDA put on that table where it needs to be negotiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u151	It's very simple. We have to be honest about that. We have an election program. Our election programme does not say that we want to increase the burden on business, as the PvdA does. There is, however, a slight burden increase in our programme. This concerns the Vpb high rate. I don't know the numbers by heart, but there's a slight increase in the numbers. That's an honest story, forward. Yes, there is also a burden increase for business. But it's very small with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u152	We spent this little piece last week, because the healthcare salaries have already been paid for. Is this going to be some kind of infinite thing? That you think: if there are some things that need to be done in the country, then we are going to tax the business more heavily? Is it CDA on that tour? Or do they say that we've had that bit now and that more than this can't be reached? Then it must be found because we do not do other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u153	Our election programme is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u154	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk, PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u155	I was just referred to the electoral programme of the Labour Party and I was also referred to. So I thought, "A very brief reaction to that." It was said that the Labour Party is asking for a contribution from the business community. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u156	You think it's a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u157	Indeed, I think that is a personal fact. But in addition...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u158	It's just an interruption, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u159	... we invest in society, such as raising the minimum wage, assistance and the AOW, to tackle, for example, the poverty crisis that we have in the Netherlands. That is where we are asking for a contribution to the business community. So that's just for backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u160	Would you like to respond to that, Mr. Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u161	No, we have to be constructive. Today is the day of construction!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u163	Thank you, Mr President. The last year and a half has been fierce for entrepreneurs. Where employees were paid through the NOW, we asked entrepreneurs for the maximum. Do we have to close the doors? Can I open? Do I get support? Do I even have a company later? How do I make sure my employees can keep their jobs? Can I pay the mortgage later? And as an entrepreneur, I understand the uncertainty. Let me give you an example. My factory supplied ice cream to festivals and events, and in one blow you lost half your sales. But what we also saw is that entrepreneurs put their shoulders on it. They're doing everything they can to save their business. With the support packages, this cabinet has contributed to the revival of the economy. And I'm just proud of that, too. I also understand that the government wants to reduce the support, because last week the Central Statistical Office showed that the economy is already growing by 3.8%. Further support stands in the way of innovation, finding sufficient staff and earning capacity for the Netherlands, according to the CPB. But despite the fact that it is going well, this is not yet the case for all entrepreneurs in the hospitality, travel industry, events, festivals but also certainly art and culture. Although we cannot take the pain away from everyone, I would like to see how we can engage entrepreneurs and realise their ambitions for the future, now and in the future. Mr. Chairman. There are three points I would like to ask this cabinet about. One. Helping entrepreneurs so they can continue to undertake. Two. The stopper arrangement. Three. The future perspective for all entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs who do not yet achieve the turnover they need but who no longer receive support have an acute problem. I took that example: ice vendors get most of their sales in the summer. But that also applies to fairgrounds, tourist attractions, festivals, events, art, culture, museums and so on. We need to ensure that these healthy companies or institutions with their employees get through that winter, so that they get back to business. Mr Graus of the PVV referred to this earlier. D66 very much wants the corona loans to be extended for the fourth quarter of 2021 and also for the first quarter of 2022. Does the Minister agree with us? We are considering tabling a motion on this, because we believe that we should be able to help companies, institutions and museums which now have an acute problem. They need to be able to access liquidity in an acute manner. There are a lot of healthy companies that we just have to help the last push over the winter, so they can do it again next year, when the sun shines again. Mr. Chairman. With the current prospects, these entrepreneurs will thus be able to get back to work. We want to help them with that, but there are also entrepreneurs who choose to stop. For example, if an entrepreneur is almost retired, his company can no longer adapt to the world after corona, has put himself in debt to pay his staff and all his pension money has been used while the value of the company has fallen, then I want him or she to be able to choose to stop. I just had a nice little debate with Mr Azarkan and Mr Aartsen on this: how is it going to stop? Because stopping also costs money. Therefore, in the support package debate last time with Mr Aartsen, I also called on the cabinet to examine how many entrepreneurs we can support with a stopper scheme. The cabinet points to debt relief in a letter, but not everyone can participate, such as entrepreneurs in a one-man business or vof. They simply depend on the willingness of their creditors. If they don't agree, then those private debts and corporate debts run right through each other. In the worst case scenario, they can spend the rest of their lives with a very big debt because they had to end their business. That is why I once again ask Mr Chris Stoffer to tell us what we can do for these entrepreneurs. I am also considering another motion on this point. Fortunately, we also talk to a lot of entrepreneurs who want to go on, but who are simply out of liquidity, who are out of buffers, who no longer have the money to invest, for example in sustainability. That money to invest in sustainability also just ensures that you can get your business repaired quickly and make sure you earn your investment back quickly, so that they can also work more effectively. I'm worried about that. Can the Minister tell us how he sees it that companies can continue to invest, including in sustainable ambitions for the future, so that they can work more cheaply and thus earn their living? Mr President, I shall close, because I see that I am over time. We're good, but we're not there yet. I've heard it a lot, too. As an entrepreneur in the Chamber, I also see an assignment for myself here with all my colleagues to make sure that all those entrepreneurs do what they are good at: undertaking so that they can all get started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are at a turning point, a new phase in which we can put the restrictions behind us more and more. It is therefore also time to restore the usual economic dynamism and thus reduce the generic support measures. The economy is turning into a sunset for many, unemployment is historically low and the support package has done its job. According to the Central Planning Bureau, 65,000 to 180,000 people kept their jobs by 2020. At the same time, young people and flex workers in particular have lost their jobs, at the same time not all sectors have lost their jobs. Many entrepreneurs are still experiencing the effects of the corona crisis, and my group therefore considers it important that the completion and phasing out of the aid be carried out carefully. At the same time, aid policy has a price, but for the Christian Union it is clear that benefits, including the hard-to-move benefits of well-being through job or business retention, have far exceeded costs. My question is: what lesson has the cabinet learned from the support and budgetary policy pursued over the past period, for example compared to the policy response at the time, about ten years ago in the credit crisis? Mr. Chairman. Over 140,000 entrepreneurs have applied for wage support in the first NOW round. She must now return a statement to the UWV before 31 October. Half of them have not yet done so and are therefore likely to have to repay the entire advance. Is this going to be all right, Minister Koolmees? And do these small entrepreneurs often know their way around the administrative jungle? I got signals I didn't. How are they approached and helped by the UWV? Mr. Chairman. Several sectors have unfortunately had to deal with the mandatory corona admission ticket since this weekend. That has quite an impact on entrepreneurs. If we look at other countries with a corona pass, we see that it can also have a significant impact on business and sales. How does the cabinet weigh this and how does the cabinet monitor the economic impact on entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. It is important that various accompanying measures are taken by the Cabinet for the next transitional period, because there are plenty of companies and self-employed who are still in severe weather. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet comes up with the arrangement fixed charges closing nighthoreca. I do have a few questions. Some of those questions were already coming along. What is the definition of "nighthoreca" used? Shouldn't the scheme apply to more or all catering? Is it true that the VLN scheme still has to pass Brussels and that it is questionable whether it can be paid after 31 December? We know that Brussels is not too bad to launch regulations. Think of the fucking BICC. There are more sectors affected by restrictive measures. They came by: events, fairs, conferences, suppliers. Are they also eligible for the VLN? And what about the travel industry? It's still having consequences, isn't it? How does the Cabinet view these branches? Mr. Chairman. Now that the Tozo scheme has stopped, it is a good thing that the cabinet is facilitating access to assistance for the self-employed. However, many municipalities fear that a large number ofzzp'ers will have to rely on it for longer. The relaxed BPA regime will apply until the end of this year. Is that long enough? Is the cabinet prepared to look at the need for extension if necessary? Mr. Chairman. The recovery of the economy may be successful, but large investments must be made in key transitions. There is EUR 5.6 billion to dust in Brussels. I have two more motions that have been held on this point and last week Mr Dassen's motion has been adopted. An announcement that the mortgage interest rebate is being further reduced and that the labour market is being reformed along the lines of the opinions of the Borstlap Committee is sufficient. My question is: when will the cabinet finally send this request to Brussels? And do we get a ruling on that for next week's General Financial Reviews? Mr. Chairman. In the Finance Bill of just now on the solidarity levy, the Minister or the Secretary of State, one of the two, confines himself to income tax and income tax, while today's criticism also focuses on profit-paying companies. For example, Randstad is in the top five dividend yield of the AEX. Has there been any thought of a dividend tax? I know that this is a direct tax and a withholding tax, but if we increase it once in 2021, it will be somewhat reduced to profits that were made in 2021 or perhaps 2020. Finally, because I see that my time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u166	That's right. Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u167	First of all, congratulations on the last question. I am also very curious about the answer given by the cabinet. I am glad that the Christian Union colleague is bringing up the temporary Bbz regime. GroenLinks is also in favour of extension, but it would be a terrible shame if we moved from the temporary Bbz scheme to the old Bbz scheme, which we know does not work. Our hope is that the labour market will develop in such a way that people will have to make as little use of the arrangements as possible. My question to the Christian Union, through you, Mr President, is: do you agree that it would be a shame to let go of this opportunity and that, on the basis of the lessons we have learned from existing arrangements, we should find permanent solutions? Are you prepared to take a look at how we can do that and put that question to the cabinet as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u168	I'll start with that last one. I have just put that question to the cabinet because I am concerned that this abrupt transition will not be too hard later this year. Therefore, my question is whether the cabinet is prepared to keep up with this and to see if too many entrepreneurs from the current relaxed regime will end up in that rather cold and chilly arrangement at once. My follow-up question to the cabinet is also an answer to Mr Maatoug.......................................................................................................................................................................... That is my response to your question and it is also a question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u170	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands, society is turned upside down. We're getting scared of each other, marriages are on edge, groups of friends are falling apart, elderly people who have been vaccinated and thought that everything was arranged, but eventually they didn't have a DigiD or a smartphone, find out that without a QR code they can't even go to the bathroom in some places. The cabinet, with the exception of Mona Keijzer, who rightly expressed her concern but received subtle resignation, waved it all away, because: we live in a cool country. Then the corona support packages, which we're here for today. The Minister stops the Temporary Emergency Response Overbridging for Employment and says that there will still be support. However, this support concerns guarantees and repayments of tax debts or problematic debts. But this ignores the fact that there are still entrepreneurs who are really suffering from the corona measures. These include, for example,zzp'ers, who were already outside the NOW, but also entrepreneurs in the event industry, who are not yet able to play at full speed. Festivals and events are not suddenly organized in two weeks, which means that there are again plenty of revenue. For these entrepreneurs there is a kind of follow-up effect of the measures. I think the Minister is ignoring that. How does the Minister himself see that? The corona access pass provides a lot of extra costs for the catering industry, for example. An extra male at the door is often not enough. Staff must be released or accepted for this inspection. There are also international restrictions on travel, which mean that tourism and commercial international traffic are far from up to date. Here, too, the catering industry still loses revenue. The Netherlands is expected to welcome 5.4 million international visitors this year. This is 26% less than in the previous corona year and 73% less than in 2019, the last precorona year. This year Dutch people go out more often in their own country, of course to enjoy our beautiful and green countryside, but this does not compensate for the falling number of international guests and the loss of income. The expected annual figures provide a more dramatic picture than we had earlier this year. This year the tourist and business visit in the Netherlands even falls back to the level of the early 1990s. Like no other, these entrepreneurs contribute to viability, well-being, culture and relaxation. That this is important has proven the corona crisis. Please don't let them break down at the last minute, with the port in sight. The sector calls for the TVL to be maintained until at least the fourth quarter. Is the Minister prepared to do this? We should also remember that restaurants are still not allowed to open between 00.00 and 06.00 hours. Here too, the catering industry is failing in revenue. There is a fear that in the fourth quarter many things will fall down and that the position of workers will be put under pressure if aid falls out on 1 October. Koninklijke Horeca Nederland has good suggestions for support of the industry. Why doesn't the Minister take up the plan of Royal Horeca Netherlands? Is the minister talking to them? I'd like an update from the Minister. Those who are outside all regulations would have been helped by a so-called sweeping scheme, which provides a one-off payment for fixed charges. Will the Minister consider this sweeping scheme? Mr. Chairman. When I read that the Tax Administration is starting recovery from September, the chills are on my back, because the surcharge affair has made it so painfully clear that people have been destroyed by the same Tax Administration. There's a lot of work coming up on the IRS right now. Can the Minister try to give me the confidence that this will work out and, if so, how this will work out? Finally, a question. What criteria does the cabinet use to determine when the corona age ends and the old normal, to which the whole of the Netherlands cravings, returns?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u171	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u172	Good afternoon, chairman and cabinet members. I'm glad you're back on your feet, Secretary of State. I saw yesterday you had to sit down. I'm glad your back is better. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the end of the aid packages here. They'll disappear by next Friday. Including a number of tax measures are the NOW, the TVL, the Tozo and the TONK. Those are concepts here and also outside the Chamber. For many entrepreneurs, this support has proved effective. It's appreciated. It was a hold. At the same time, the CPB also warns us of possible market-distorting effects. The world has changed and we will live with corona. Well, thank God we're doing that. The CPB expects growth of 3.8% and 3.2% in 2022. Unemployment seems to be barely rising. A great deal has been used to delay taxes. This would amount to some EUR 40 billion for 39 000 entrepreneurs. Of these, some 16.6 billion have been repaid, but there is still 19 billion open. What is the government's assessment of costs? Are we gonna get that back? How do you see that? Then there are those sectors which will continue to be difficult, even after Friday. That is, of course, about cultural events. This has already been discussed yesterday in the debate in the Education Committee. It's all about indoor events and places for events. In the theatres they can fill three quarters. An amount of 15 million has been made available for this purpose. Is that enough? The second point is the nighthoreca. That has already been mentioned here. The compulsory closure is very bad there. The nighthoreca should close after noon until November 1st. Mayors are against it, and I believe that the boas and the police are against it. The UNG has also interfered with this. The VNG indicates that the 180 million for the fixed charges associated with the closure of the nighthoreca is far too low. Many cases fall out of the boat. How does the Cabinet see this? Then thezzp'ers. 1.1 millionzzp'ers are not eligible for the TVL, for example because they do not have a business property. Market buyers also seem to suffer from this. Shouldn't we arrange a one-time compensation for this group? Then the catering industry in general. That point has just been raised. I read the letter from Rober Willemsen and the colleagues. That scared the hell out of me. Koninklijke Horeca Nederland's confidence in the cabinet has fallen to zero. Many restaurants have huge cash flow problems. They also ask for the Now and TVL to continue. Small travel organisations have already been mentioned. They're in trouble too. Mr Azarkan has already mentioned this. I support his questions. Finally, the event sector, a huge sector. I've spoken to someone who has an event office. She says she got through the first few months with the NOW and with €4,000, but the costs just went through. So she had to pay that out of her reserves. Now she's managed to cut costs herself by three-quarters. That was very difficult, but she managed, among other things by selling her inventory. She's said goodbye to her staff, she's involved in a cheaper building, she's sold her own house and she hasn't been able to build any more reserves in the meantime. In short, does the Minister realize that the event industry is not a baker who can start selling bread again from Friday? An event organizer needs weeks to months to get back to business. Most customers wait until the next press conference before booking again, so there are empty agendas from 1 October. How do you see that? So there's no income coming in. Much has already been postponed, by the way. People say, "Well, we'll have the event in a year." Besides, the season's already over. This also applies to fairs and markets. It was the intention to walk in just now, but they are now getting a bit of the rain in the drip. Meanwhile, the staff has run away, because they say: yes, there is no market in that anymore. In short, I would like to respond to these great cry of despair from the sector. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with a cry of despair from the lady from the event agency: "For a year and a half an image has been created that entrepreneurs have some sort of superhero status. They must always be creative, inexhaustible, be able to cope with any setback, carry financially just two years without revenue and have endless reserves. Does the Minister realize that the stress has been enormous? Does he know what the mental and physical impact of that is? Does he realize that this is far from over, that we entrepreneurs are now quite exhausted and that we now have to work 200% to ensure that we remain without support? Where's the human thing?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u174	Mr. Chairman. Bollocks in the margins and bullshit within the established frameworks of the ruling power: that is what a debate like this is about. Maintaining the NOW or the Tozo regimes means maintaining the current system and thus legitimizing this fake pandemic, this sham situation, this shameful deception that threatens to destroy the entire middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u175	There is a point of order, I think, from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u176	Well, I have one last interruption and I would like to devote it to this, because Mr Van Houwelingen is really coming... We are now, I think, engaged in a serious debate on a support package for over two hours, on entrepreneurs who are worried and on people who are in poverty. That's what the whole room is worried about. Everyone comes here with a real input and listens to each other. We have a debate here. Mr. Van Houwelingen is gonna walk in here. He may say whatever he thinks of me; it is total nonsense and I am already taking a great distance from it. But either join the debate or stay away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk, for letting me know. As you know, we have televisions in our rooms and we can watch them. I'm going on. Look, the only thing that really benefits entrepreneurs in the Netherlands is not all those rules and bureaucracy that the party cartel is constantly working on, but simply the freedom to take unhindered action without restrictive measures, without limited visitor numbers and without controls, forms and constantly changing criteria. Choosing between support and rules; it's like choosing between hunger and plague. This, while the alternative of the Forum for Democracy is so clear. They do it in Florida, Sweden, Norway, Hungary and Romania. Get rid of those rules. Open the country again. Release our society. There's a storm coming, Mr. Chairman, a winter. The pressure will be mercilessly increased in the coming period. The European corona passport, a conspiracy theory according to the fact-checkers of NU.nl, is now a fact. The 2G society, where you only have access to social life with vaccination or proof of recovery, is coming up. Mona Keijzer saw it happen and spoke out, resulting in resignation. Every day we get new reports about the cruel vaccination programme that produces countless deaths, wounded and life-long mutilated people. What are you guys doing? This can't hold, can it? This can't go on, can it? Happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u178	I understand that you say you have over televisions, but I don't know which channel you had on. The debate here is about entrepreneurs. I know you are making a whole speech here, but I think you are in the wrong room. This is about how we're going to help entrepreneurs. I can't hear you about that. You come here literally and now you have the most strange equations. I'm getting away from it, and I'm freaking out, too. If you are really concerned about those entrepreneurs, it would also be a good thing for you to be here in time for that debate with us. That way, other MPs can also ask questions. But what are you doing? You walk into the room and you ordain something that doesn't help that entrepreneur. We are all here in the Chamber to get those entrepreneurs to take action. And you're here trying to fill your four minutes of speaking time with your conspiracy theories. I'm getting away from it, and I'm freaking out, too. It would be a good thing if you were now confined to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u179	You probably don't hear what I'm saying. I was just saying, we have to open society up again. That is our solution for entrepreneurs; I cannot make it simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u180	It might be something of a theory. I also heard your foreman say that the IQ of the Chamber is too low to understand this. Maybe I don't understand. However, I am concerned that we are living in a reality in which entrepreneurs have to deal with the aftermath of the corona crisis. That's what the Chamber is trying to solve here. And you are only talking about one thing, namely the abolition of all rules. That's your solution. That is not the solution, nor is it the reality. So, Mr. Van Houwelingen, please come back to reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u181	The reality is that we are slowly building a totalitarian society. That is the worst thing, and that should have the attention of all of us here. That's what we're talking about. And those entrepreneurs may be the most affected by that. That is what we are talking about, because that is the most important thing now. With your permission, I'll continue. I was just asking, what are you guys doing? This can't hold, can it? This can't go on, can it? Fortunately, we have reason to believe that it is not going through. For there are countless hopeful signs on the horizon that the resistance is increasing. The coronahoax is now completely exposed. The cabinet is standing back against the wall and cannot, without a doubt, give a substantive answer to the more than 100 parliamentary questions we submitted last week. They're questions we're gonna use to expose this coronahoax. More and more Dutch people wake up and see, even when they are vaccinated themselves, how their family and dear friends are excluded from social life by the totally absurd and criminal apartheid card. More and more Dutch people are resisting, such as the Utrechts, the heroes, who yesterday formed a human hedge to protect the restaurant WAKU WAKU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u182	A point of order. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Here a somewhat confused contribution is made, which is completely separate from the corona support packages. I do not know whether you have followed the debate or whether you know what debate is taking place here, but this debate is about how we can support entrepreneurs and employees. You come here with a bizarre, confusing story that doesn't touch either side. Does Forum propose to take away from them the money that is now available to entrepreneurs and employees? Or are you proposing to increase that amount? What is the Forum's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u183	It's very typical that you don't understand. That's always our point. It's like sitting on the Titanic and going to see which songs you let the orchestra play. We have a huge problem, and that's what we're focusing on. Those entrepreneurs are also on the Titanic and they have the same problem. That's what we're talking about right now. We are also talking about corona, so that is what this debate is about, which is about aid measures. Everything's connected to corona now. These support measures are the result of the fake pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr. Aartsen? No. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thank you. For example, Doutzen Kroes, who does not want to be vaccinated. For example, Douwe Bob, who cancelled his concert because non-vaccines are no longer welcome there. Douwe Bob is also an entrepreneur. What can you do? Every small act of resistance, every civil disobedience is important and meaningful. It shows to others that they are not alone with their resistance. So don't put on that absurd mouth cover, don't check your guests on their corona evidence, possibly just pretend. Take everyone as a bus driver. Don't ask Rosa Parks to give up her place. It is so important that we unite, that we, vaccinated and unvaccinated, do not let this cabinet divide us. We have to support each other. FVD is therefore busy building such a network, of such a new society with its own restaurants, its own sports clubs, its own food chains. Unlike this apartheid state, we welcome everyone. We are not asked whether or not you have been vaccinated. We're shutting people in instead of out. We are on the right side of history. Once again we say to the Dutch citizen: hang in there, because we are going to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u186	You often say "you," but it is important to talk through the President so that people can see who you are talking to. We are having a debate here with each other or with the cabinet. There's been an interruption by Mr. Aartsen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u187	"A network of people who break the law" is, in my opinion, just a criminal organization, but that aside. Mr Van Houwelingen referred to the so-called resistance of individual people. I get videos and e-mails from entrepreneurs threatened by people because they follow the rules. People get called names for Nazis, people walk past terraces with a Jewish star and threaten guests. I am so curious to hear what the Forum for Democracy thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u188	That's a good example. This shows how bad it is. This shows the division that this cabinet is sowing in this country. That shows this. We are indeed calling for civil disobedience. You heard right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u189	But do you then call on entrepreneurs who respect the Dutch democratically elected rules to be harassed? I ask Mr Van Houwelingen what he thinks of entrepreneurs who are being harassed by people with a Jewish star on their lapel, who call entrepreneurs Nazis, because they adhere to democratic rules in the Netherlands. That is the question I put to the Forum for Democracy, and I hope for a decent answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u190	What we call for is civil disobedience in the tradition of Havel. I refer to a beautiful essay of him, The Power of the Mightless, in which he shows you how to passively resist a advancing totalitarian society. That's what we're calling for. Read that essay, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u191	Let me make a point of order. We live in democracy and the rule of law. We have laws and regulations, also around the corona measures. What is very important for this debate is that any party can, of course, say what it thinks also in a democracy, but that it is a bridge that goes too far when it goes beyond the limits of the rule of law. As far as I am concerned, this is the case with Mr Van Houwelingen's contribution. I am very far from that, and I think that all my colleagues should distance themselves from that. It's good to say everything here. It is the Lower House, the highest body, but we also have a rule of law that we must respect, so that we can let our police and our boas do their important work quietly. Then it is important to have the debate with each other in this House at the sharpest of the cuts, the whole debate. But it goes too far for parties to call for a violation of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u192	Very briefly, very briefly. As far as you're concerned, Rosa Parks should have given her place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u193	There is another point of order, now from Mr Azarkan. Then I'll close the first term of the Chamber. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u194	I remember a debate here last March when I was here. I remember Mr Bruins saying: I am not going to put the country in a lockdown for a long time, because that is at the expense ofzzp'ers and entrepreneurs. Mr. Van Houwelingen's boss, Mr. Baudet, said: "emergency debate, the schools have to close, in a lockdown." Mr Bruins said that we are not going to do that, that costs too much. At that time, some of what Mr Van Houwelingen says is fake was all invented. Entrepreneurs were in trouble. We helped them. We're still in some trouble. In fact, he says: what we called then has led to a situation that we are in trouble, and for the rest we pretend it doesn't exist anymore and we call it one big conspiracy. I do not understand which way Mr Van Houwelingen is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u195	Well, this is actually a better question. We've explained it many times, including to you. We were, and we often said that, wrong at first. We thought it was a dangerous virus. We have said this a great many times then, and I am sure you know that you are also in favour of a heavy lockdown. We've seen, as I just said, that it's one big hoax and we've changed our policy, I'd say, almost. That's the story, as I think you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u196	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u197	No, no, no. You've been through your interruptions a long time, and this was not a point of order. No, no, no, Mr. Azarkan. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about 20 to 25 minutes to answer the questions. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u198	I would ask Members to take their place again. The next item is the debate on the Corona Support Package. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, then to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and then to the Secretary of State for Finance. First of all, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, like Mr Azarkan, but also others, I should like to point out that in the past year and a half many people at UWV, RVO, the Tax Office and ministries have worked incredibly hard to create support packages under great pressure. I will look at the precise way in which the package has been drawn up. There has also been an incredible amount of work done in recent times. I really appreciate that your Chamber is right to think about that. All this against the backdrop of the fact that the outlook is fortunately macro good. What a number of you rightly pointed out is that even if the macro goes well, there can be great concern and suffering for individual entrepreneurs, their employees and their families. That against the background of the fact that the macro is going well. And it is not only going well, but there is now a very loud concern in conversations with entrepreneurs, but also with research institutions, about large staff shortages. Against this background, the cabinet has previously announced its intention to stop the large general support packages under the now known abbreviations NOW, TVL, Tozo and TONK. At the same time, at the beginning of the summer, it was promised that we would come forward specifically with support for those sectors that are still limited by very specific measures, namely nighthoreca and the event sector. It has also been indicated that it would be difficult to define them. Again, I will come back to that later. But we also want to meet these commitments with the package we are discussing today. Because we are aware that although the economy is doing well for macro, there are still companies that are struggling or companies or workers who have to go through a switch, we do not suddenly stop everything. We will, for example, step up the measures, Mr Koolmees, which will undoubtedly go further in order to retrain people and support them in making a transition, because they work in a sector in which employment is declining. Whether that's purely from corona or coming together of an already decreasing turnover and the extra push of corona, we want to help those people to make that step. In addition, a number of general arrangements relating to lending and strengthening of capital are continued in the broad form in the fourth quarter. Finally, according to our commitment, there are separate arrangements specific to the night closure and events. I'll divide my answer into hopefully clear cubes. First of all, I will deal with the general regulation and the considerations of phasing out or the way in which we do it, then with the specific regulation for nighthoreca, then with the questions relating to other sectors, and then with the questions relating to the capital position and loan possibilities. Then I have another category, and then I hand over the stick to Mr Koolmees. First of all, the question of why the phasing-out is now taking place in this way. Mr Azarkan, but others too, asked: does it not happen too quickly and too abruptly? I have indicated to you that because of this macro-development, behind which there are still major bottlenecks for individual entrepreneurs and their employees, we are not saying: we will stop everything from 1 October. With a very focused package in all three areas, we want to ensure that we can make the transition to the new normal, which will not be the same as the world for corona, as smooth as possible. At the same time, I realize that a government is unable to prevent individual bankruptcy. In the end, it is not possible to make the cut between corona bankruptcies and bankruptcies that would otherwise have taken place. At best we have tried to make this transition as flexible as possible, not only in the past quarters, but also in the design of the package we are discussing. Because we cannot cut a pair of scissors between what is precisely the result of corona and what is not, I cannot answer Mr Graus' question about how many entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt through corona. Of course, we know the numbers of bankruptcies; they are public figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics. We also know that they are lower than in other years. This naturally leads experts to say that the aid schemes were designed so that we removed some of the normal dynamics, and that we also prevented people from switching to job vacancies where they were desperately needed. But again, I can't exactly cut it. Similarly, I cannot exactly cut Mr Van Haga and Mr Grinwis asked what part of the loss of revenue in the catering industry, in cinemas or in other sectors is the result of a corona admission certificate. I can't cut between the general developments, can I or won't there be good movies? And the people who say, because of the corona pass, I'm just not going. And they will be sure; I will not deny that. But there is also another group of people who say: I don't want to get mixed up in a crowd, because I don't want to get infected. It's both true. I can't cut them, just like I can't predict how long there will be after-life effects. This applies not only to the catering industry, but also to the travel sector. I shall come back to this later on for everything that has to do with conferences or the effects of homework. Then Mr Stoffer asked: is it also possible to allow entrepreneurs to choose between the one and a half meter scheme or a corona admission ticket? This is difficult both legally and in implementation. You need a basis for a one-and-a-half meter measure and for a corona pass and it is extremely difficult to differentiate in it. It is also extremely difficult for enforcement if some entrepreneurs apply one criterion, the 1.5 meters, and others the corona admission ticket in the same square with catering. As is often the case, we will come back to this in this debate more often than not. Both legal and practical considerations sometimes lead to the conclusion that the idea is sympathetic but that the implementation would run smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u200	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u201	My thought is always: where there is will, there is a way. This was discussed in previous debates, also two weeks ago at the corona pass. Enforcement was the most important aspect. It seems to me that this enforcement will eventually come to the attention of the mayors, who are responsible for this in their congregation. I have just deported a few things to a number of mayors and they indicate: we do not care very much; if entrepreneurs see an opportunity to organize it, we could do just fine. Of course, I haven't spoken to all the mayors in the Netherlands. I've only spoken one percent. Could it be a consideration for the Minister to allow it as mayors to say: yes, in our congregation it could be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u202	That doesn't change the point that you need a legal basis. It seems to me that I am just a simple doctorand so that measures like this cannot be based on a local regulation. You really need national measures for that. In my view, the debate was indeed extended last week with the Prime Minister and the colleagues from Justice and Health. I have no other arguments than they shared with you back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u203	Yes, it was. Not with the Minister of Justice, but the argument of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and everything that still comes up in terms of that is not my committee so I know that was not exactly enforcement. That doesn't seem to be the big deal in itself. The legal basis was not, in my opinion, the argument not to do so. I understand that the Minister cannot answer directly, but my question would therefore be: would it be possible to have a second-term review of whether the legal basis is indeed a huge obstacle or whether it could possibly be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u204	I'm happy to get back to that and I'm going to do my best for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u205	Let me get this straight: for my second term. I'm considering filing a motion. I can, of course, submit it, and then the Minister can respond to it in the second term, after which I can change it. But if it were possible for my second term, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u206	For all of us second term. Again, we're gonna do our best to do that. Then Mrs Van der Plas had the more fundamental question: when can it be established that the corona age ends? A logical question, to which I have to respond again: I fear it will not be with scissors to cut. We hope, of course, that we in the Netherlands will be able to get rid of the remaining restrictions as soon as possible. The Chamber knows that we base ourselves on the advice of experts, the OMT. But it is ultimately the cabinet that is responsible for decision-making. If that were possible during the third quarter, we know that, unfortunately, the vaccination rate is still far behind internationally and that, for example, the impact on the travel sector is likely to be more likely than months. This may also apply to the congressional sector. Then there is uncertainty, which effects have led to structural behavioural changes. Both employers and employees have now experienced that working at home is sometimes very uncomfortable, when you sit with a lot of people and children at home in a small room behind a screen, but sometimes also quite nice. So it is worth seeing if that can happen more. This can be a structural effect with advantages and disadvantages. It will lead to less turnover in catering, possibly also to less turnover in public transport, but possibly also to fewer traffic jams. I can't predict exactly how much that effect will be. There are business events, as Mrs Van der Plas mentioned, or business trips. I've talked to a lot of entrepreneurs and read articles about it. For example, in international companies people say: well, we have now seen that it is really not necessary to fly towards each other every time; we are really going to do less. This leads to the conclusion that a number of sectors are likely to continue to experience the effects of corona for a long period, possibly even years, even after we have completed all the specific measures in the Netherlands. This is another important reason why the cabinet, rather than in the present package, has indicated that it is not reasonable for the community, the taxpayer, to pay for structural or longer-term changes. This is not about such a targeted measure as closure after 00.00 hours or not more than 75% occupancy for replaced events, but longer working effects. This will then become the new normal, and this will require adjustments from the entrepreneur, but probably also re-negotiation. Someone mentioned the example of the owner of an exclusive hotel, a large part of which came from wealthy people from Asia or the US, who probably won't come back for one or two years. Then it is reasonable that the owner of that hotel also adjusts the rent, whether that is a Dutchman or a foreign investor. I do not think it is reasonable for him to say that the Dutch taxpayer will match that. You just have to be honest about that kind of adjustment. They are needed, and you cannot leave them all with the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u207	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u208	I actually heard two things from Mr Blok. I was concerned with the criteria to say: now the end is corona measures. As you know, this has happened in Norway and Denmark. I know that the criteria are basically: keep pressure on care low and protect vulnerable people. Vulnerables are now largely protected, because the vaccination rate among older people is almost 100%. I'm getting a little bit of a taste that maybe there's some thinking about keeping the rules a little longer to be even more certain. Maybe the Minister can shed some light on that. That was the basis of my question, which criteria exactly should be there to say that we are putting an end to the corona measures. That not everyone is going to be vaccinated, that's just true. Not everyone's gonna get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u209	That is actually the broad debate on what criteria are being applied to the corona measures. That debate was held last week. I repeat when I say: the cabinet has announced that it is going to ask for an OMT recommendation again at the beginning of November. On that basis, it will decide again. Mrs van der Plas has also heard me say loud and clear that everyone in the cabinet naturally hopes that we can conclude that the measures no longer need to be taken. Why should we hope for anything else? Mrs van der Plas has also heard me say loud and clear: even if we decide that, many sectors will not be as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u210	I understand that, but then it is up to all sectors to choose to do something different. If government measures are no longer imposed, it is up to companies themselves to say to the employees that they introduce the policy to work at home at least two days a week. Other companies can say: there is less visit to our sandwich shop, so we are going to think of something else to be able to do again. It's a choice of its own. In the meantime, as long as the government does impose these measures, I think that as a government you have to meet 100%. I have tried to explain this to Mr Aartsen. Of course, that can't last forever, I get that. When the measures are off, it just becomes good businessman again and earn your own money, possibly with some support from the government. But did things happen that the cabinet says might be useful, perhaps we will just keep it going? Has that been discussed in the Cabinet? From the government there could then be other measures, for example for the nighthoreca, I mention just one example because people think: that is nice and quiet for the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u211	No one at all in the cabinet I am now looking at my fellow Members who have said: that is nice and quiet. I really want to respond to that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u212	I think Mrs van der Plas was still speaking. It was a long run, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u213	Yeah, it was a long run, but I don't have much interruptions either. The Minister is now looking at: well! But I'm just asking a question. It's not a conclusion from me. I'm not saying, you're all gonna be making up sneaky little schemes. You can't hear me say that at all. It was just a question: is that being discussed? Is it said: gee, the corona time had some advantages, maybe we can see if we can maintain them? That's just a question and you can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u214	I thought I had given a clear answer to the suggestion that the cabinet would find it easy for measures such as this to be taken. I'm really throwing that far from me. Of course, no one likes to take these measures. Of course we realize that this affects entrepreneurs, but also people who want to dance at night or go to a café. That's why I'm reacting fiercely, because there's some kind of insinuation that we're doing this because we like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u215	Finally. I am far from suggesting. I'm just asking a question. My sentence ends with a question mark. You take that as a suggestion, like I'd think, that mean-ass cabinet is gonna do all kinds of nasty things for us. That's not true at all. I just want to be clear, so I can point things out myself. I can therefore justify it in the direction of my constituents. So the question is very simple and it can simply be answered with yes or no, without anyone having to feel offended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u216	Well, the answer is given loud and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u217	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u218	Then there was the question many asked about the design of the new fixed charges night closure. Mr Van Haga, Mr Aartsen and Mr Azarkan asked why an adjustment and why not continue the old Meeting Fixed Charges? The cabinet made a promise at the beginning of the summer when we announced specific measures for events and nighthoreca. That is the promise we are making with this arrangement. We have also said that I have just given this argument in detail in my introduction that, now that we are moving to the new normal, we are not ending all the schemes, but we are ending the large generic schemes. It is therefore a question of honouring a commitment. When we made that commitment, we also indicated, because we have extensive experience in setting up aid schemes, that it would probably be very difficult to define the nighthoreca specifically. I also heard in the contributions of many Members of Parliament the reminder of previous attempts to do something on the basis of industry codes or other criteria. Moreover, we have devoted a great deal of time, also in consultation with municipalities and practitioners and with legal advice, to giving an answer to the question: can we aim more precisely? The obvious answer to that was: that is not going to work. Executors also said in so many words, "Don't do it to us." We have listened carefully to that. This means, therefore, that we are going to focus the scheme as it currently stands on the small group of companies that will be included, by the turnover criteria and the level of the loss, 50%, which means that you really have to deal with the closure or at least close down of a large part of the business, using aid in the previous quarters as well. In doing so, we call on the entrepreneurs: but now use it if you are covered by the group of entrepreneurs affected by the specific night-closure measure. That's a call. We realize that the computer that keeps turnover and VAT data cannot see the difference and that the cut is also very difficult to make. But at the same time, for the reasons I have just explained in detail, we find it really unwise to continue with a generic regime. It's not a perfect arrangement, but it's the best thing we can do and it's also keeping a promise. So we have, very practically, come to this arrangement fixed charges night closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u219	I do have a question about the cabinet's call about the VLN or the TVL 2.0 and about what that call is worth. I asked the question: if you are a coach operator, you have more than 50% turnover loss and you meet the criteria that the minister has just outlined, can and can you use this scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u220	I have indicated that a number of sectors will have long-term effects. I think the coach sector is part of this. I know the examples of coach companies that owe a large part of their turnover to tourists who make trips from Amsterdam to Keukenhof, the Zaanse Schans or one of the other beautiful things the Netherlands has to offer. My sincere assessment is that, unfortunately, the next year's turnover will be lower than before. Companies such as these will therefore have to take structural measures. This will be partly to limit the size and partly to make arrangements with banks, leasing companies or capital providers. Hopefully they will find opportunities to generate revenue elsewhere. This is one such example of a sector that will have long-term effects. We do not think it is logical that this regulation should be used as well. You have heard me say that we can only do so with a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u221	I do think that we should communicate well, clearly and explicitly to entrepreneurs. I have also said in my speech that there are sectors that will have to adapt. Let's say it's a coach company aiming for school trips that aren't happening right now. I hope that they will be able to organise school trips very quickly in January or in the new year. That would be nice, even for those coach companies. But to put it equally sharply: if these entrepreneurs apply for the VLN in the fourth quarter and they meet the technical criteria of 50% turnover loss and they have not been able to use the TVL before, will that application be approved without hassle, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u222	The question of whether I would like to call for something else to be done is different from the call we make. My appeal is correct: only appeal to it when you are affected by nighthoreca. I have also indicated to you that such a precise arrangement is not to be achieved. You're asking for honest communication. This is honest communication. Moreover, it is not the first time that a government has to conclude that you cannot make a very specific arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u223	I understand that, but I would like to conclude quite clearly here that if an entrepreneur makes that application and he meets the technical criteria, he will be properly paid the amount, without hassle, without an angry letter or anything. Then he meets the criteria and then he can simply use the scheme as it stands, even if he is not in those two sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u224	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u225	But I am not going to weaken the cabinet's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr De Jong of D66 and then by Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u227	I hear this discussion with some surprise. I would just like to hear the Minister say very loudly that the cabinet is actually saying: entrepreneurs who are really having a hard time at the moment are also always talking about those who have more than 50% turnover losses and who have really serious economic reasons, such as closure or which can be very limited open, we do not really want to help. There's no other way, but we'd rather not. Am I hearing that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u228	No, this is very insinuating. Very insinuating! The cabinet brings the fair message that a number of sectors... That is why I have just dealt with the example of the coach company in detail. That is an excellent sector which we must honestly say to: it is very unlikely that the world will be as it was after this fourth quarter. That's just an honest message, isn't it? That at the same time we have made promises about how we would reduce... So that's not that we're just gonna leave everyone in the cold. That's why I'm really moving away from that. That's not the package that's here either. The third point is that a government always runs into feasibility questions. We can just be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u229	You have just mentioned the coach sector, but we can now, with the same ease, quote the travel industry for those faraway journeys. You've just spoken about it. You say, "Hey, maybe we can get back in a minute." We will soon be eligible to make those trips again, because we will lift that limitation. Those are companies that are in a very bad way at the moment. It is very difficult to survive there now and I was also very surprised that you are raising the threshold with this regulation and only looking at companies that are really having a very difficult time. You are going to help the companies that are in a very difficult situation, and I understand the call from Mr Aartsen, who actually says: okay, but let's call the animal by the name. I understand that, and I was hoping to hear the same from you. You're actually saying that we're only concerned with the nighthoreca. You distance yourself from everything else, but that is actually the message. It's about nighthoreca. We do not want to help companies that are still struggling with this aid package now. Then let me specify.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u230	If I may follow Mr De Jong's reasoning, I would also like to go into the example of the travel sector. That's where very hard hits took place. Businesses are still in a very difficult situation there, but this is also a sector on which I think Mr De Jong is aware that it is very likely that turnover will be much lower in the coming year and perhaps much longer. The cabinet does not, but if you focus specifically on those sectors affected by a separate measure, the nighthoreca and the events, then you immediately raise the question of how long you will continue the scheme. Then we are not talking about the fourth quarter, because we are also talking about next year and perhaps also about the year after that. This raises the question of what to do with this necessary adjustment in the economy and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u231	I think it is very nice that both Mr Aartsen and Minister Blok are talking about the honest story. I'm very happy about that, too, because it's a good thing we're telling you that here. It is good to say that the aid ends. It is good that entrepreneurs can resume their business. That is where we find each other, but what matters now and what is before us is only one quarter of aid. And then I say to you: these companies are having a hard time right now. We have an arrangement for that now. I would also like to take a look at Mr Aartsen, who is prepared to come up with a proposal to mention it by name. My party is therefore in favour of helping companies that are still in a very difficult situation for one quarter. And that goes wider than just that nighthoreca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u232	However, I regret that Mr De Jong's speech does not now address the point I mentioned and the companies we are talking about. I also think it is very good to talk about specific companies, which will also not be helped with only aid in the fourth quarter. Then you immediately ask the question about you: what then in the first quarter of the coming year and the quarters thereafter, in which the turnover will still not be at the old level? Then the only answer is and then the fair message must be: there will have to be a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u233	I do like how often the words "the honest message" pass through here. We share that. We share that it is now about this quarter. And we also share the view that this is not about the first quarter. But let's go back to the travel sector, a sector that you also mentioned. As you can see, many measures are going to be lifted this quarter. We really see opportunities and prospects for this sector, and that is why I am very pleased that there is now an arrangement that will remove the worst pain. Hopefully, I hope that with you there will be a lot of them from the first quarter onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u234	But we really can't guarantee that. Schiphol itself has given a prognosis of how they expect air traffic to develop. They have set a deadline of three years before it will be back at the old level. Thus, the travel sector, large customers of Schiphol, hotels and some of the coach operators are likely to have an equally long recovery period. I understand very well why you are asking if it can be extended for another quarter. But that should also immediately raise the question of what we will then do with the sectors that still have less turnover after that quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u235	Thank you. First Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u236	I think there are a number of different discussions now. One. It's going economically well, macro. Then it is justified not to go through with a whole package of aid, because the corona measures are also coming to an end. I think there is a broad majority in Chamber who sees it that way. Two. In some sectors there are longer economic effects that you cannot cope with with with a support package. Perhaps this is a different economic approach, but that is not this debate. Three. From the Chamber, however, there is a question of whether we can help the companies that are in difficulty, in fact, the nighthoreca, also the travel industry and perhaps in part the event industry in the coming quarter. Then I actually read in the letter about an extension of the TVL scheme. Although it mentions VLN scheme, it is simply an adapted Meeting Fixed Charges with a higher limit. Moreover, you must have applied for it in the second and third quarters, which already reduces the group, which reduces the risk of fraud. I would be very much in favour of calling it that: this is the Fixed Charge 2.0 meeting, as Mr Aartsen said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u237	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u238	Doesn't it make sense to follow that instead of putting it into some kind of new arrangement when it's not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u239	No. This is a bit of a rerun of moves. The reason why we are completing the scheme as we are completing it is that, on the one hand, we are fulfilling the commitment towards the nighthoreca, with a separate arrangement towards the events, but at the same time we also want to listen to the clear signals, partly from the entrepreneurial world, but partly from economic experts who say: make sure that employees of shrinking sectors go to sectors with job vacancies, make sure that the economy adapts. By keeping the scheme wide you inevitably have that broad support again, even from companies that you are actually artificially keeping in life. This is evident from the low bankruptcy rates I mentioned earlier to Mr Graus. Also you have to deal with this discussion we have just had with a number of companies of which you are quite sure, however annoying it is, that they will also have to deal with disappointing sales in quarter 1, 2 and perhaps longer next year. Then you can't really indicate why, if you extend it now you wouldn't do it any further, in next year. That's how you postpone the changeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u240	Thank you. I see that Mr Van Dijk no longer has a question. Then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u241	First of all, I do not entirely agree with all of the forecasts made by KLM and Schiphol that it will take us three years. I believe that everyone is eager to return to normal life and be free again. When the State opens the prison door, as far as I'm concerned, everyone runs out jubilantly, because life always finds its way, but okay. I have a question about that TVL 2.0 that's now called VLN. I often ask this question to the Prime Minister. It surprises me every time that they are such round numbers and that there is hardly ever any basis for that. We're going from 30% to 50%. What's the basis for that 50%? Is it just that it's half or that it's a nice round number? Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u242	That's an understandable question. The specific measure for the nighthoreca, i.e. the closing at midnight, has been announced until the next weighing time based on OMT advice. That moment will come in early November. So in a quarter of 12 weeks, at least the first four weeks will be closed. Then the advice has to come. So they poked halfway through the quarter and that's how we get to that 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u243	That is strange, because in the TVL the turnover was still 30% and now we have gone to 50%. At least I think that's weird, but okay. I think this is a disproportionate increase in the scheme. Of course, cabinet policy is to allow much fewer entrepreneurs to benefit from the support they need to apply for, precisely because of government policy, but good. My second question is this. I have read that it is going to take longer, because a new regime is being established that also has to go through Europe or something; there are all kinds of procedural hooks and eyes on it. Can you guarantee that it will also enter and apply directly on 1 October, so that entrepreneurs will not be faced with an incredible liquidity problem again as with the previous arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u244	Yes. Mr Grinwis has asked the same question. The scheme must be approved by Brussels under the State aid framework, so we will present it there as soon as possible. The scheme can be opened once the third quarter has been completed at the RVO, with the exception of a number of inevitably longer-term complex cases. The scheme will therefore be opened in the second half of November if we actually get the approval of Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u245	I'm going to continue at the point where we had just stayed with D66 and the VVD. The Minister himself indicates two things. The first is a future perspective for a particular sector, whether it is traveling or something else. Is that all going to come back to the old level? The second point the Minister makes is the cut: can I make a cut somewhere? Is it related to the nighthoreca? Near us, in the region of... that is not the Randstad.. drive disco buses. There you have it; you can't make that cut. Another point is the burden of keeping restrictions. I shall go back to the example of the case of the coach. Many coach companies still suffer from a mouth cap being applied for in the coach, even if it is because they fall into the same category as public transport. Older people who go directly to the Christmas markets or to Austria on holiday do not go on that coach. They're gonna keep that mask on. So I ask the Minister whether that consideration has been made. I'm not going to repeat the care debate. I can't judge that. But if we have the corona access pass and we want to make money for such an entrepreneur, he doesn't want money; he wants to make money, do we give him the room in a responsible way if we don't support him? Are these considerations made, especially at this stage, to take specific measures where they really help, and to leave out those where they do not help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u246	Sure. I have indicated how much we have looked, also on the basis of experience with previous aid schemes, at how to target a scheme in a very specific way. We encountered implementation and legal issues. I have also indicated that the cabinet thought it was purely political, but that is what the cabinet has already shared with the Chamber in order to link the support packages to the specific constraints in the nighthoreca and at events, and also to create a transitional package along the route of retraining. I will look at the financial instruments in a moment's time. But the cabinet also found that the purely "debate" has just been extended so as to avoid continuing with the large support packages where there are long-term structural effects. However, Mr Amhaouch's question has been made very explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u247	I was just gonna stay away from the money. Because that's the discussion of whether you're going to put extra money in it. In a while, we will make another assessment, also with the care team of VWS. But does the Minister for Economic Affairs also consider this interim? Does he have talks with the Minister of the United States, for example, saying that we are not going to help such a coach company with money? Or is that still irresponsible? I'll leave that to the cabinet, but is that trade-off made instead of shooting hail? You can't show that coronapas in public transport. Then it's fair to say we're gonna keep those mouth caps on for a while. It is about creating targeted space for entrepreneurs, where on the one hand we say "you are not getting money," but on the other hand we are looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u248	Sure. That conversation with the colleague of VWS and the other colleagues is taking place regularly. The Chamber knows that there is a Covid-19 ministerial committee, which often meets, and that the Council of Ministers talks about it, but also that there are also frequent consultations outside these two formal consultations. That is precisely what this is about: what are measures for specific entrepreneurs or specifically for young people or for older people? Of course, that consultation is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u249	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u250	Sorry, Chairman. There are only six interruptions and you have to deal with them sparingly, but I can't resist it. You say: "We have rigged a new arrangement. It's got to pass Brussels first. After that, it can only be opened in mid-November. Then people can apply. Then it will take weeks for money to be paid out to these entrepreneurs." How the hell do you think these entrepreneurs are going to bridge that time? You should probably wait two or three months for your money. I wonder how they'll get through the winter. Why didn't we change the TVL a little bit and just keep walking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u251	I'm gonna join you in the thought experiment to keep the TVL running. In addition, you will first have to let the execution organisation handle the ongoing applications third quarter. This can then start with the fourth quarter applications. The current TVL scheme has also been approved until the third quarter. So you will have to ask permission again for the fourth quarter, even in a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u252	And the first part of my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u253	Please repeat the question. The first part has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u254	I don't suppose it's gonna be my fourth interruption. No? Okay, thank you. I'm just wondering, what's going to be... You start laughing, but it's a very difficult game here. You have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u255	You're asking your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u256	Good. The scheme opens in mid-November. Well, we know the government. There is no immediate payment on 15 November, so that will take two, four, six weeks. Then entrepreneurs are just three months without money, without revenue, without government revenue. How do they get through those three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u257	Yes, Mr Van Haga is right. He asked the same question. That will indeed require talks with financiers, with the bank. In it it can be indicated: the government has created this arrangement and I fall under it; that money comes later, so give me room. This indeed requires an extra effort, as with the previous aid schemes, because unfortunately, here too, the reality is that you are dealing with these two time factors. There are people who have to do it. They are now implementing the third quarter scheme. And you need the approval of Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u258	Yeah, now my fucking fourth interruption is gonna go down. This is gonna go south. I can go home soon. Because the government is bothering the business community and setting up weird regulations that prevent them from making sales, we're gonna help them. But we're gonna put together a new arrangement that's gonna make us pay out three months late, which puts these people with a hole, a three-month liquidity hole. And then you say, "Go to the bank." Well, I know what the bank's gonna say in a lot of those cases, because I've been there myself. It says no or: you may get a little bit, but not everything. So what's the government gonna do to compensate for the fact that the government's structuralally lurking around the business community?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u259	I shall leave Mr Van Haga's choice of words to Mr Van Haga. It is indeed an uncomfortable truth, but with that it is a truth that when the government sets up a large scheme, which must be carried out by ordinary people. Mr Azarkan started thanking others happily with those people for their hard work. But it is the same people who are now dealing with the third quarter applications that have to do the fourth quarter applications, just as it is the fact that if the government is supporting entrepreneurs we are doing so because we need approval from Brussels. This is not new in relation to the previous situation. Mr Van Haga is also right that many financiers and banks are making trouble. But because we announce this arrangement, you can go to that funder and say: I have consequences from the closing of the nighthoreca or I am in the event sector, one of the conditions is that you also received a TVL benefit in the previous quarters, so you can assume that I will get it. Mr Eerdmans asked whether the estimated 180 million would be sufficient. This estimate is based on the experience with the TVL as it has been up to now and the application of the new criteria. It is not a hard budgetary ceiling. It's an estimate to the best of our ability. Mr Stoffer asked about problems that could arise with the reimbursement of corona aid, in particular as a result of accounting costs. A formal audit is only necessary for applications above €125.000. In addition, in consultation with the audit firms in the design of the TVL I understood that the question was chosen to make it as little as possible for the companies where the audit is needed. It is true that Mr Stoffer's question was that the criteria of the various schemes, the SZW and the Economic Affairs Regulations are different. That is a bit inevitable, because one has to do with the prevention of redundancies and the other, this scheme, with the covering of fixed charges. In response to Mr Aartsen's motion, we indicated that we really put the implementing organisations together to coordinate contacts with the entrepreneurs. There are flexible refund arrangements, both on the part of the Tax Administration and on the part of RVO and UWV. So we try to make that indeed complex matter as easy as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u260	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I think he gave it on behalf of those sitting next to him, but the Minister speaks on behalf of the whole cabinet, of course. I understand that there is a good attempt on the part of the government to make things easier, that they are doing their best. On the other hand, I have e-mails not only from entrepreneurs, but also from the accounting industry, which says: we do not understand it from time to time either. We really can't get that together here this afternoon, because that's too complicated for me and perhaps even for the Minister. My question remains whether it is an option that I hand over some good examples, it is not a thick pile of mails, and that is whether we can do something about it. Then the matter will be made concrete and we will not have to dwell on it for long this afternoon. What can't be. But if there is anything in it, I think we are doing the best for our Dutch society. If I get that promise, I'm a happy person, but that's not what this is about, and the accountants and, above all, the entrepreneurs behind it, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u261	I really appreciate the offer. That's what we're gonna look at. Again, our role really is to make it as workable as possible for entrepreneurs. We have no interest in unnecessary complexity. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the different sectors. Some of them have been dealt with in the event of interruption. Mr Van Kent had another question about suppliers of festivals. The purpose of the guarantee scheme applicable to the events is precisely to allow an event organizer to pay the suppliers as well. The organiser gets his money through that guarantee scheme and if there are underlying contracts with suppliers, Mr Van Kent mentioned a number of examples, which are very recognizable and are then the money is available from that organizer. Then there is a question from Mr Aartsen. I understood that there is an e-mail behind it that at least came into the Chamber from Rowwen Hèze, about organising a festival and the application period, whether it is three weeks or three months. Indeed, there are currently two application regimes. After the cabinet had to decide abruptly at the beginning of July on how to restrict events, the guarantee scheme was extended. The deadline has been adjusted to three weeks. This extension was valid until 25 September, when those specific restrictions were terminated. After that, the rule should be another three months. The confusion that you are actually all expressing is understandable but undesirable. That is why we are going to align the deadline for the fourth quarter with that for the third quarter. I also have to place the 'provided' that we will present it to Brussels, but our commitment is to bring it into line. So also thank you for the suggestion. Mr Aartsen was also right to point out that a commitment was made about compensation for the smaller events, the neighborhood parties. I thought I heard a little behind the question that there would be no consultation. There is very intensive consultation with municipalities, which we need to find this type of event, because these will really have to be based on local permits. Our will to honour the commitment is still there. I also realize that the commitment was made a while ago, but we are really busy working with the municipalities to give this up. The travel industry, I think, just when interrupting extensively discussed, we also discussed the 1.5 meters. Mr Eerdmans asked whether the 15 million available for the supplementary scheme would be sufficient. It is, like the 180 million for the night-closure scheme, which I just mentioned, based on an estimate as reliable as possible, but not necessarily a hard number. But our estimate is that it should be possible to do this. Then I come to the questions about the financial position and capital position. We are well aware that a large number of companies have been able to cope with this very difficult period, but that the result is that own funds are extremely thinned and the liquidity position has dried up. That is why we have these funding arrangements. A comprehensive guarantee scheme has been drawn up for larger companies. We have specific arrangements for Qredits, for smaller SMEs. We will continue these arrangements in the fourth quarter. That is one of the types of arrangements that is not being phased out, because we realise that this transition is necessary. Moreover, guarantee appropriations and guarantee appropriations already existed for corona. They will continue to exist after that. These arrangements will therefore continue to exist even after the fourth quarter. We are also awaiting an opinion from the Dutch Entrepreneurship Committee on the capital position of specific small enterprises. That must be done in the short term. We will, of course, seriously look at how we can give hands and feet to that, but I do not have it at the moment. Finally, Mr De Jong specifically asked about the position of people who are at the choice to terminate their business. Previously, it was shared with the Chamber that both a separate legislation under the name WHOA and a specific credit scheme under the name TOA had been introduced. They will also be available in the near future. Mr De Jong asked how the stopping mechanism, which was requested in the previous debate on the aid package by motion, would be further developed. My colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, will come forward this autumn with proposals on how we can put business out of business in the most damage-free way possible. So that's still coming your way. In doing so, I hope to have answered the questions about the capital and liquidity position. Finally, Mr Amhaouch asked about the shortage of materials and raw materials, when we see not only in the Netherlands but worldwide that the economy is fortunately climbing out of the valley again. I would like to make a distinction between a number of vital sectors in which the government has a role as usual. The energy issue was discussed during the General Reviews. Mr Yeşilgöz and I have answered both through Parliamentary questions and letters how we want to ensure security of supply. When it comes to suppliers outside such vital sectors, such as metals or computer chips, it is of course primarily up to companies themselves to secure and diversify their supply chains. It is up to us to create an attractive locational environment in the Netherlands and Europe. That is why, for example, we are participating in European projects, such as the IPCEI in relation to micro-electronics. But as a government, we cannot arrange security of supply chains per company. It is therefore a combination of measures. Mr. Chairman. In this way I hope that I have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u262	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u263	I would like to comment on the latter. I'm trying to get a sense of urgency on the cabinet side. Today we see the images from England regarding the shortage of fuel. The reason for this is the Brexit and a shortage of drivers. I taste and read every day that the capacity shortages, whether they are fuel, base materials, building materials or other things, could come at us faster than we think. The Minister says: I leave that to the companies themselves. But we, too, have societal challenges. We, too, want housing over the next few years and we also want a climate transition. If we're not gonna do anything, if we're gonna sit back and it happens to us, then I'm sure the prices are gonna skyrocket and we're gonna be in big trouble. I do not want to make it bigger than it is, but I do ask for a little urgency and attention, also on the cabinet side, to what that means. Can we make an inventory of that? Can we make it clear what that means and how it's going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u264	I also have the images from England on the retina. Mr Amhaouch rightly points out that this is also largely due to Brexit and staff shortages. But Mr Amhaouch is also right in saying that supply chains are also under great strain in the Netherlands. This leads either to higher prices or to waiting times. Let me give you a very practical example. Even if you want to buy a bike, you often have to wait a long time now. This can also apply to some cars, electronic equipment and the construction sector. But I do want to be real about what a government can do. We cannot keep track of all sectors where bottlenecks may exist. That is why I have just mentioned a vital sector such as energy, because there is always great public interference there. As far as housing is concerned, a whole package, from the production of piles and bricks, which takes place to a large extent in the Netherlands, to heat pumps, can be affected by a shortage of chips, the factory or Taiwan or in Europe. That's the level of detail the government can't oversee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u265	Nor do I assume that all the details of all sectors are known, but I do rely on the administrative expertise in the ministries. There are smart people who can really make a good risk analysis of how this will work. Perhaps somewhere we can actively do something together with business. Sometimes we will consciously say: there may be a shortage there, but we will let that happen. But on other points we will say: we will not let it happen there. I can imagine that we are about to reach a point where the shortage of building materials in the chain becomes so serious that, as a government, together with the business community, we have to come up with something. Or we're gonna sit back and we're gonna keep saying that housing is a big problem, but it happens to us, the prices are blowing up and we don't touch our materials. That's kind of the difference I want to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u266	What we can do lies in the middle between doing nothing and the pretence that we can control all supply lines. I mentioned the vital sectors. As I am sure Mr Amhaouch knows, the Corona crisis at European level has led to an inventory of European strategic dependencies, so a great deal of useful work has been done which we can make use of. The question that Mr Amhaouch is now asking, moreover, I myself asked in a number of discussions with companies: how do you deal with these strategic dependencies? That also leads to the answer I am giving now. They do not say: look for us where the factory of our chips stands. Or: find out which metal is going to become scarce. That is their job; neither can we overlook it. But on the basis of the European Commission's survey, we can do European and therefore national homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u267	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes. Then we will continue with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u268	The next item is the debate on the Corona Support Package. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u269	Second, Madam President. I would like to thank the House of Representatives for their questions. I'll give you a brief introduction and then I'll have four cubes. I'd like to say a few things in general. Of course, we look back on a very moving year and a half. It was a tough time for many companies and for many entrepreneurs. Mr. Eerdmans also quoted an entrepreneur. I recognize that too, and of course we have received these signals, but it was also a difficult period for workers. Turnover and income suddenly dropped and it has asked a great deal of the stamina and creativity of those entrepreneurs and workers to bridge this period. As a cabinet, we have taken exceptional measures to preserve as many jobs as possible and to support incomes. I thank Mr Azarkan for the words of appreciation for the implementation, for the officials who have devised all these arrangements, but also for the RVO, the UWV and the SVB, who have implemented all these arrangements. I'd love to join that. From a macro point of view, it has also been successful. This was also apparent yesterday from a publication by the Central Planning Bureau as well as from the IMF report, that it was about the fact that the Netherlands is actually in a good macro-economic position, is resilient and comes out well of this crisis. That's what unemployment is all about. It is low, also internationally compared low. It is expected to increase slightly in the coming year, also as a result of the phasing-out of the aid packages. But 3.4% in 2021 and 3.5% in 2022 are still very good compared internationally. That, I think, is also a compliment to all of us. At the same time, we see that people have lost their jobs because of the corona crisis. They are therefore particularly vulnerable groups. The Central Planning Bureau also indicated this yesterday, and Mrs Hamer also indicated this last night in the opinion on working poor people in Nieuwsuur. People from vulnerable groups, but also young people, of course, have paid the biggest bill on the labour market. That is why we have also focused on counselling, helping to change jobs and on additional money to combat youth unemployment in order to support these groups. We are now entering a new phase, in which we slowly reopen and adapt to the presence of the virus. The vaccinations have made an extremely important contribution to this. The generic aid package is no longer being continued. That's why we stop with the NOW, the Tozo and the TVL on October 1st. It is positive that we can stop these generic support measures and get back to the healthy dynamics of the economy. That is what the Central Planning Bureau says in the report on aid measures. If you go on supporting for longer, you also run the risk of disrupting the dynamics of the economy and actually doing more harm than good. But we are committed to continuing to manage that transition, because this situation is not suddenly over. Sometimes companies go bankrupt because the situation before corona just doesn't return. That is why we have a comprehensive social package, for example, to help people from work to work or from benefit to work. This was kind of my introduction. I've got four cubes. I'm gonna make it quick. You asked me to do that, Mr President, so I'm going to do that. The first block is about the NOW. Then there's a block of Tozo and Bbz. Then there is a block of poverty and debt and municipal regulations, and finally a few other questions. But I'll start with the NOW. There is also the moral appeal that Mr Gijs van Dijk and Bart van Kent did. The first question concerns the number of findings. Perhaps yesterday you also saw an interview with me and Maarten Camps, the chairman of the board of directors of the UWV, in De Telegraaf. We also call for the application to be submitted to the UWV before 31 October. Why? There are now 71,700 requests for establishment, out of 140,000 NOW 1 applicants. So there's still a long way to go. We still have a month left, but that means that a small 70,000 entrepreneurs will have to fill out their final set-up request in the coming month. Research by the UWV shows that 90% of employers know that they have to do so. That's good news. That's a lot more than a few months ago. The UWV also does everything in its power to inform employers of the fact that every employer who has applied for NOW 1 also has to apply for a determination. We give employers flyers, mailings and letters. I have therefore given an interview myself, precisely to draw attention to it. Employers are also approached individually. At the UWV, a large team of employees is working to call individual employers who have not yet submitted an application for an assessment. It's important they do that by October 31st. If it is not submitted before 31 October for the NOW 1, then the risk is that the subsidy will be set at zero and that you will have to repay the entire advance. We have one exception. Should the employer not be able to apply for the determination in good time because he has been delayed in obtaining an audit opinion or a third party statement, the period of 14 weeks shall apply. That still means that before 31 October you have to submit your application to the UWV. I repeat this once again: you must submit the application for the fixing of NOW 1 to the UWV by 31 October. That is important, so I'm going to repeat this every time I see a camera in the next month, because 70,000 companies still have to do this. Otherwise there is a real risk that subsidies will have to be repaid, and I really want the subsidy to reach those companies that really needed it in the corona crisis to pay their employees to survive the situation. That was the part about the fixing application. For the part about the moral apple I need a slightly longer introduction, but before I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u270	Before you start, I can see that Mr Aartsen has an urgent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u271	Well, I thought that block will undoubtedly raise some questions on this side of the Chamber, so before we go that way, I'd like to ask you a quick question. I asked for a quarterly monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u272	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u273	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u274	I'm still at the beginning of block NOW. I go back to the first press conference in March last year by Minister Hoekstra, Minister Wiebes and myself; I thought it was on 16 or 18 March last year. At the press conference, we immediately called on entrepreneurs to deal responsibly with the aid measures. These measures are implemented very quickly, and we cannot monitor everything in advance. At that time we also knew that in a month's time, Gijs van Dijk said that in my opinion, too, the businessmen had to be on the account of those entrepreneurs in order to be able to pay the salaries, and that things would also go wrong. Then we also said, "Ask it only if you really need it." That moral appeal has been in all the regulations and press conferences from the very beginning. Fortunately, a lot of entrepreneurs do the same. There have been a few examples in the publicity of companies that have paid back. But there are, for example, a lot of entrepreneurs who have not applied, or who have made an estimate that they would be below 20% of turnover and have therefore indicated earlier that they would like to repay, or who are not entitled to the NOW, but also want to repay more quickly. During its term, new aspects have emerged. Two months after the first NOW scheme, for example, it was concerned with groups of companies. We then had a debate with the Chamber on how do you deal with working companies? At that time, we also included in that scheme a separate arrangement on bonuses and dividends or on the purchase of own shares. That wasn't in the NOW 1. It was in the first group scheme and later in the NOW 2. We also had a discussion about catching up on minutes. There have been court cases between trade unions and companies, which we said is not in the spirit of aid measures and we are calling on industry to respond to this. In the previous debate it was about a concrete company, the Booking.com discussion, where there had been a bonus for the board of directors. It was also said that a moral appeal was made on the company to repay the aid. That's what happened. At the same time, we said: there are also discussions that are less black and white, which contain some shades of grey. You cannot expect me to talk about individual companies, but there are companies that have actually applied for aid and that have been able to get through the first stage of corona without redundancies. I also said at the time: I would like to talk to a few companies and also to the representatives of the business community to find out exactly what the situation is and how to look at it. I fully understand the moral appeal of this Chamber. I share that with you and I believe that this is widely shared, but I also think it is good to ask the companies about what the trade-offs have been to apply for the aid and to pay it back or not. Those calls are scheduled, and I'm going to have them soon. I've waited a little bit for that to happen because we're stuck with that determination. We only know for half of the companies what the final NOW application is. Slowly, we see more companies that have applied, so that we can give a better picture of exactly what is happening in practice. I'll come back to that later. Yesterday, questions from Mr Amhaouch of the CDA were answered about the solidarity levy, but there was also a question about the moral appeal. We have thought about whether we can repeat that moral appeal in the findings, for example by the UWV, and bring it to the attention of all the companies that have applied for the NOW. That's different for different NOW tranches. This has to do with both the legal arrangements that have been made and the implementation practice. Not everything can be done easily by the UWV. It is about a lot of companies and very large tranches at the same time. For example, we have introduced a new part on the UWV website with clear instructions on how to regulate the moral apple, through reminder emails to request a determination for NOW 2 and beyond, but also through invitation emails to request a determination and include the moral appeal for NOW 3 and beyond. For NOW 1, those determination requests have been running for a while. That's where we have to do it this way. Moreover, the part of the legal framework has been adapted in the meantime. We have now accepted for the various NOW tranches that the voluntary or partial repayment of the NOW aid is possible, for example through the waiver of the right to NOW 1 and thus the refund of the advance. But also from NOW 2 and beyond, it can be indicated by an abridged route that the employer would like to refrain from NOW subsidy. This makes it administratively easier to refund the amount. If an employer wants to repay part of the amount, it can, of course, do so, but he always has to submit a settlement application first. After receiving the decision and any post-payment, he can then contact the UWV by telephone to give this moral apple hands and feet. In this way, we are trying to do justice to the Court's appeal when it comes to companies that have actually survived the crisis in a very healthy way. They did apply because of the uncertainty. I certainly do not blame those companies, because in the first weeks of the corona crisis they were uncertain about what was in store for them. In this way, we have accepted that companies can voluntarily partially and fully repay. At the other point, I'll come back later, after the conversations I've had with companies about how to look at these shades of gray. I can't anticipate that. I understand very well from the wide-ranging question put by the Court that this is an important point of attention when determining the NOW, including for the coming period. That was my moral apple cube. Mr Blok has already said something about dealing with objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u275	Before you continue, I was already watching Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u276	Me too. I dropped a little break, but Mr. Van Dijk didn't bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u277	I understand that, because we also said, knowingly and knowingly, in the first aid package, that it had to be done quickly and generically. We asked companies to do it nicely, especially by applying for support, but also to pay it back properly if they don't need it. A number of companies have done this nicely. I have deliberately called for attention to be paid to the broadcasting sector. The broadcasting sector is typically one of those sectors which deserves to be affected by labour market fluctuations. We have seen that things were going well for the broadcasting sector quite quickly, because there was still a lot of demand for staff. The broadcasting sector is then the first to be able to employ people and therefore make money. In this case, I deliberately mentioned two temporary agency companies, although I understand that this is difficult for the Minister. In 2020, Randstad received 97 million in state aid and made a profit in the same year as a group of 304 million euros. That was a half cut of the profit if you sell it by 2019, but you can still see that they got over the blow in that corona year very quickly. That is why I would like the Minister to have those talks. Not just the dome, because the dome agrees with us. The dome has also said to its own people and organisations: pay it back if you don't need it. My observation is that these very large temporary agency companies do not need the money in the end. I expect the Minister to sit down with these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u278	A three-part answer. First of all... After previous signals about a number of payroll companies, which have also been discussed in the Chamber, I have already had discussions with the ABU, the umbrella organisation of temporary agency companies. The ABU has indeed emphasised its agreement with the Chamber in its own communication to the members. Second. You mentioned individual companies. You can't expect me to say anything about that. It's not a choice when I talk about individual companies in this place. But I do know that this debate is being listened to and watched by all kinds of companies, so that people know how the people's representatives look at it. I think it's important that this signal comes across. The third point. I'm not gonna tell you which companies I'm talking to, because that's what I think is confidential. This must be done neatly in the context of privacy and an open conversation must be possible. But I take Mr Van Dijk's signal with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u279	I understand that from the Minister's point of view. For us as Chambers, I have deliberately chosen to mention a number of companies, precisely because we are still having a full discussion with the broadcasting sector about the revision of the labour market and about structures that are constantly being used, while they are not for the benefit of the workers. That is why I would like to emphasise this once again. I understand the Minister does not want to mention individual companies. I know he's gonna talk to different companies. That's good. I hope to get a feedback from that. But know that there is still a lot to talk about with this sector. Look at the situation of migrant workers and how some people are really falling apart. Again, towards these companies: simply pay back that unnecessary state aid properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u280	Three things. I'm not going to discuss individual companies. Mr Gijs van Dijk understands that very well. The second point. In the first NOW, I remember, there are about 1,400 companies working in the temporary agency or payroll sector. I've reported that to the Chamber before. Of course, there are a lot of them. They have also been asked: am I going to fire my employees? The same applies to temporary contracts of employment, i.e. temporary workers who then had no income. Some of the companies have paid for these temporary employment contracts, so that these people did have income. I think it is fair that both elements are mentioned in this debate, because during that period in the Chamber the main concern was that all people with a temporary contract or a temporary contract would be the first to be expelled and no longer have any income. That's the other part of the story that needs to be told. The third point is that I fully agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk when it comes to the future of the broadcasting industry. In fact, in the opinion of the Roemer Commission, an advance is made on a new regime, for example with certification. I am in favour of that myself. But I also very much agree with the discussion on the ESC opinion on the medium term, on more permanent contracts and no permanent status of temporary benefits. I think you should keep those discussions apart for the purity of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u281	Two questions. The first question: can the Minister indicate that he is at least talking to the largest temporary agency companies in the Netherlands? He doesn't have to name names. The second question. We received the letter from Finance today. Can the Minister indicate what he thinks of the idea of simply looking at the companies that have done very well and asking for an extra contribution from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u282	On the second question: the cabinet tends to promote unity of cabinet policy. The letter of the Secretary of State for Finance was written on behalf of the cabinet. So I fully agree with that letter. Then there's the first question. I'm not gonna name any companies I'm gonna talk to. In the direction of Mr Gijs van Dijk, I indicated that I heard his signal very well, but I do not think it would be a good idea to name only companies. Then there will be another discussion about exactly who I have spoken to and what it is exactly. I don't think that's a choice. This is quite apart from the fact that I have listened very carefully to the feelings in your Chamber on this point over the past period. I believe that this has been well heard in society and also in business itself. I was working on the next topic. It's about dealing with objections. Mr Stoffer asked for this. Mr Blok has already mentioned the individual examples. In general, I do not recognise that the handling of objections is difficult. At the UWV, 2,600 of the 3,000 objections lodged have been dealt with. A very large part has been dealt with. In any case, 34% of the objections were well founded. This has also led to an amendment of the Decision. For example, this has led to more support after an entrepreneur appealed. The handling of the objections will take time. This has to do with the individual assessment to be made by the UWV if a company objects. There is indeed a careful and sympathetic look at the objections. It is about the spirit of the arrangement, we have always said. Hence the relatively high percentage of cases in which the entrepreneur concerned's objection is met. 34% is quite high compared to other schemes. But looking kindly at objections does not mean that the submission of an objection always leads to the intended result. I think Mr Stoffer will agree with me. I think it is a good idea for him to send his examples to Mr Blok. Then we can take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u283	The latter will help again. I thought: the more effective Minister Blok and the firmer Minister Koolmees, should I still table my motion? But no. Let us be very clear: I believe that a lot is going well too, but that just doesn't come to us. In general, things that are a little tough do not come to us, are not understood and so on. I'm sure a lot of things are going well. And if Minister Koolmees takes the hand that Minister Blok has just put out, and that has just been done, because the cabinet speaks with one voice, I am simply very satisfied with that. I would also like to congratulate you on everything that goes well. Let me just add that to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u284	I really like that last part. It's a whole new experience, but it's really nice. I'm going to the next point, because before you know it, it's gonna be uncomfortable: the recoveries. Mr Aartsen asked about the quarterly monitor, the monitoring of the recoveries. As a cabinet, we consider it extremely important that we make the use of the scheme transparent, but also the status of the refunds. I've done that eight times in the NOW monitoring letters. Each time, there is an overview of the various NOW tranches, advances, repayments and also the reason for repayment or additional fees. The next NOW monitoring letter, the ninth, is scheduled for early February 2022. In doing so, we try to continue to inform your Chamber of progress. The same goes for the TVL. Two progress reports have now been sent by the Minister for Economic Affairs. The third will receive you in the very short term. The Secretary of State for Finance also communicates regularly about tax delays. We will continue to inform your Chamber about the settlement of the various arrangements that exist. I fully agree with Mr Aartsen that we must attach enormous importance to the important report by the Bosman Committee. As you know, I myself am a coordinating minister of execution. We can see that a lot of implementation has been requested in the past period. Much of the implementation will continue to be requested in the coming period, with the settlement of all additional payments and the recovery. By the way, we see that the bulk of the recovery is based on a lower turnover loss than had previously been estimated. We also see that the majority of entrepreneurs can pay it back relatively easily. That'll give us some confidence. Of course, we have the large refund scheme in five years' time, but the first images are positive. However, as you have just said, 70,000 entrepreneurs still have to fill out the definitive explanation for the NOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u285	I think we're on the same subject. What are we gonna do with this? The Bosman committee is quite clear and says: "Room, be more active in the execution! The minister says his department is sending something for the NOW, we're getting something from the IRS and we're getting something from the TVL. I'd be happy if the cabinet could make some sort of document. That doesn't have to be right now, but I'm kind of looking for that. That would also be good for our position as a room. Hence the idea of such a quarterly report, a monitor, in which we get to see what is going on with both the NOW, the TVL and the Tax Administration instead of that secluded image in three Chambers and so on, so that we as a Chamber can get a better grip on this. Because this is going to be, but I hope not, quite exciting because it's such a mega operation. It's important that we stay on the buttons as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u286	I understand Mr Aartsen's request. I'm going to think about that, and I'll come back to the General Financial Reviews on that. On the other hand, all organisations have their own accountability mechanism, their own ICT, but also their own rhythm of fixing reimbursement, because the NOW is different from the TVL, also in terms of advance. If you want all this to work together, it will take more work than producing separate reports. I'd like to think about that. The Secretary of State just said in my ear that we'll come back to the AFB next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u287	Could it possibly be in a separate letter with the three departments? You are right to say that we must avoid creating an ICT situation in the implementation organisations. On the other hand, my fear is great, precisely because they are all different tubes, that this can cause a future problem. For us as a Chamber, it is good to be able to receive one corona review in the coming years, because that will remain the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u288	Let's see if that's a lot of extra work. We'll get back to that. Then the second. Last week or two weeks ago, a motion was adopted in your Chamber by Mrs Tielen on a national implementation day which I am very pleased with. I also heard that in your committee BZK will soon be discussing the report of the Bosman Committee. I think it is extremely important for the Chamber to take this seriously, because this is really a big challenge for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u289	I'm totally sharing that. The procedural meeting will discuss this in the near future. That is very nice and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u290	I am very pleased with the debate on this, because you will notice that if we only have four minutes of speaking time, we are all inclined to interfere with the present and the controlling task. As a result, I have a question. The debate we are having today also has the block of NOW. The NOW stops, but the reduction in working time has also stopped. In the input of GroenLinks we looked at the holes in the safety net. The question I have to the Minister is what the cabinet has in store for a new arrangement. We hope that it will not be necessary and that no crazy new things will happen, such as undercurrents, but we think it is extremely important to look ahead to the gap that exists during the budgetary procedure of SZW, especially now that the NOW stops and the old regime is no longer there. That may be included in that letter or another letter or in a letter that we already receive, so that we can see how long that gap is and what the cabinet has for a new arrangement, because we have always had it. I would like to hear if the Minister can provide us with this information for the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u291	I have seen written questions from someone in your Chamber yesterday, and I think it was Mr Amhaouch of the CDA who spoke about the reduction of working time and raw materials. The reduction of working time is really not an alternative to the NOW. The reduction in working time was for about 150 companies per year affected by flooding, fire and such. Nor is it intended that this is an alternative to the NOW, not in terms of numbers, because that is not the way to implement it, but also not in terms of its purpose. That's one. Two. Mrs Palland has received a motion on structural part-time work, I shall say. That's what we're thinking about. We'll work that out, and soon it'll be coming to your room. I hope that this can be done before the budgetary procedure, so that we can talk about it in the budgetary procedure. However, I would like to add that my officials are still very busy completing a lot of regulations. So I'm going to do my best to get it done, because it's such an important subject for the future. Mr Van Haga has made a point which is partly in my area, namely about the dgas that are not covered by the NOW. We've talked about that before. It's true. Only the DGAs, the directors-major shareholders, who are insured for social insurance and thus also pay contributions, are covered by the NOW scheme. That is a relatively small proportion of the directors-major shareholders. 95% of DGAs are not covered by this scheme, because they do not pay contributions for it and because they cannot be properly defined as to what their income is. That's why. We saw that and that's why we at the Tozo... That is, of course, a minimum regulation and let us be honest about it. It's azzp scheme and it was also open to dga's. I have always recognised that it is a minimum regulation. It is actually a safety net at the level of the social minimum for entrepreneurs who normally have no social security. They do not pay a premium for that either, but completely aside. But for self-employed people without staff and for the DGAs, the Tozo has been open and also the TONK, the compensation for necessary costs. That is what we have done in order to be able to support this group if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u292	Thanks again for the explanation, again, of how the scheme works. I know how the scheme works. It is very sad for many dgas, who are not insured, that they fall back on the Tozo. That could be a huge difference. I wonder, then, whether we are not at the end of this crisis with the knowledge that we are now at the end of today's crisis, by whomever caused it, we should look back and say: these dgas have in some cases been treated incredibly badly. I say 'in some cases', because I agree with you: if they are insured, that's fine, because they are covered. But isn't there something we can do for those dgas that have fallen between shore and ship, had to eat their children's money, had to eat their pensions and have nothing at all? I think that would be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u293	Honestly, I'm struggling with this. I am looking at Mr Gijs van Dijk, who tends to read all these reports, but I believe that the medium-term opinion of the Economic and Social Council makes a comment on a social security scheme for entrepreneurs. I think that funding for this is a little unfortunate. You have to think about exactly how to shape that, but it also fits in with the discussion aboutzzp. There is also the problem of ensuring certain risks, e.g. disability, in a collective affordable way. The same may also apply to such pandemics. In any case, it does not apply to cyclical developments, because you can save for this as an entrepreneur. But these are really external shocks, which normally exceed entrepreneurial risk. That is why we have also done these large support packages. I find it rather complicated how to shape and finance this, and how to define the rights, because that seems to me to be rather complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u294	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u295	And my last interruption, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u296	Oh, that's good to know!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u297	However, I am actually very happy that Minister Koolmees is struggling with this, because these are poignant cases. I was also pleased with the support of Mr Van Dijk. I will table a motion to at least try to persuade you to investigate it. If that struggle is indeed there and the cabinet is speaking with one voice, I can see your colleagues nodding in agreement. I can imagine that this struggle is also taking place with other colleagues. Since it is now so clear which DGAs are really a poignant case, I would like to invite you to investigate them and try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u298	I shall come back to that in the second term. You can just file your motion, but I think it has happened recently. I just don't have that knowledge ready right now. It has also been part of the SER pathway. I'll get back to you when I figure that out. Mrs Maatoug asked for something important: attention to education and the Netherlands-learning process. In concrete terms, she asked for the development advice. The development advice has really proved to be a valuable tool, because over 60,000 workers have followed a development advice with a career advisor to refocus on another job in the labour market. That's a good thing. I have also received a lot of positive reactions. As we will continue with the new STEP scheme on 1 January, we have thought that this could become part of the new scheme. So the development advice has been opened up again. This scheme is not generic, but will focus specifically on groups with few (in) training opportunities or who benefit most from training. As you know, it can be applied for and made affordable from 1 March 2022. An additional application period in between is complex, even in the execution. Besides, I just don't have any money for it. Of course, a substantial budget has been made available and the last letter also made available EUR 40 million for training in the deficit professions. The Minister of Finance, who unfortunately is not here today, will say that we have already made a great deal of money available for this and that there is no extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u299	This was the answer you knew it was coming. But for GroenLinks, the sum doesn't go around. We're all saying in the Chamber that there's a huge cut and that entrepreneurs in different sectors are jumping over people. We all want people from all corners to offer themselves. We have an arrangement here that's overwritten. So there's more people sign up than there was budget. I am very sensitive to budget arguments, but we also have a new TVL scheme, the TVL 2.0, which we do not cover from the general funds because we have so far done so for corona support. We see that from now on until March, so exactly during the period we have labour market shortages, there will be people who say: I need help, because I may want to work in care. So why don't we say to each other: we are prepared to do it, because that is extremely important at this time, and we agree on that, and we are also prepared to do so once more, until December? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u300	Now it seems like we as a cabinet are doing nothing. Of course, that is not true, because we have made 30 million available. It is true that there is a great deal to be said about this; more than EUR 300 million has now been signed in. We have not yet been able to assess whether these are all legitimate claims or whether there are companies or sectors that have registered a little higher to be sure of a higher subsidy. We're gonna have to judge that. In addition, I believe that through the budget of EZK, we have also made another 40 million available for retraining to the deficit professions, such as in health care. So that's what we did as a cabinet. The new STEP scheme will then enter into force on 1 January. It concerns about EUR 200 million for a lifetime of development, education and that sort of thing. In between doing an additional tranche, in the execution is very complex. Moreover, making more money available for this purpose has not been the cabinet's proposal. As you know, when the Chamber asks for extra money, it is also customary to think about covering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u301	To put that last point aside: indeed, normally we do not table any uncovered motions. But regarding corona support, we have agreed different standards and other rules on motions and the agreements we make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u302	True!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u303	But aside from that... Then there's my follow-up question. The minister himself says there's been a transfer. The moment there are no people at all and control shows that there is no question at all, it is something else. But GroenLinks makes exactly the following point. There are people who say they need help. They do not apply to an R&D fund, because it is difficult and complicated. They're using all the other resources. These people have come forward now, but screw you. We say: let us not wait exactly in a period of tightness until March and then say that it is so unfortunate that we have not helped. Let's learn from what's in front of us. We have something that works, so extend it until December. Then there will be a permanent arrangement, in which the Minister and the Cabinet are quite right. However, as is often the case in the labour market, this is precisely the mismatch at that very moment, given the fact that it has been overdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u304	My answers are gonna be a repeat, I guess. There are two arguments. One. We have made this widely available. Mr Smeulders, your predecessor at GroenLinks, has also tabled a number of motions on this subject to make that extra space available. We see that this is a great success. A lot of advice has been given. On 1 January, the STAP scheme, in which a separate budget is reserved, will begin with the groups I mentioned. In the meantime, opening a window separately in the implementation process will be extremely complicated. Then the real question is what the added value will be if you have a new arrangement on 1 January. That's one. Two. It also costs more budget. We have, of course, made a substantial budget available for reintegration, for the regional mobility tables, for training. At some point, the Minister of Finance sees me coming too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u305	Finally, on this point. The cabinet is now saying: we could help with 14 million 20,000 extra people who have also signed up. The people who often follow the education or training debates know that we are talking about "lifelong learning" or "developing a lifetime," sometimes called "lifelong cocks." I do not like to do that, but I would like to conclude that we have big words about being cut and about this mismatch, but that we also say with this answer: we do not think this is important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u306	I find that conclusion very brief. We have, as I have just said, made 30 million extra available for this route. We have made EUR 40 million extra available for retraining into deficit professions. We have substantial budgets for reintegration funds at the regional mobility tables. We have the STEP budget of EUR 200 million from 1 January. We also have the SLIM budget running when it comes to learning business culture. So I think Mrs Maatoug's conclusion is too short. The point is that Mrs Maatoug wants more. I understand that I would also like to see a lot more myself, but I am also faced with all kinds of budgetary frameworks and agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u307	I'm gonna go with that for a little while. I understand what the Minister is saying. Just as concrete about the 40 million for the deficit professions. Can that tranche, in principle, start running in the next quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u308	I've got it in my head at the beginning of 2022. We're in 2021 now. But I can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u309	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u310	Then there were a few questions about the municipalities, the Tozo and the Bbz, among others from Mr Grinwis. He asked about the relaxed Bbz regime until the end of the year. That's right. In fact, we have established this relaxed Bbz scheme in consultation with the municipalities. The municipalities indicated: if you suddenly want to implement the old Bbz scheme on 1 October, this is extremely complicated for the implementation. We simply cannot do that in time, apart from the fact that it would become even more complex with the application for the period. That period shall begin on 1 January. That is why for the fourth quarter we have made a kind of transition Bbz, with relaxed conditions for the Bbz for the people who previously received the Tozo. If we were to go through this year-round, we would have to do it for the whole year 2022, but that is a technical argument. More substantively, the argument is that we think that we should actually go back to the normal system. Of course, we'll monitor it. I can also agree to keep the finger on the wrist. I thought it was Mr Grinwis himself who was talking about monitoring the influx. We can inform the room before Christmas about that influx. I'd like to make that commitment. But the idea is, of course, that we return to the normal situation. That doesn't matter what you think of the longer term. That was also a bit the point made by Mrs Maatoug in this context and Mr Van Haga's comment on the safety net for dga's. What do you think is wise in the longer term when it comes to a safety net for self-employed workers or entrepreneurs? That's actually about this broader discussion about the future of self-employed people, the discussion about the web module, about the aov-zzp and that kind of elements. That is all in the opinions of the Borstlap Committee and the Scientific Council for Government Policy, but also in the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the MLT. As far as I am concerned, it is really a matter of formation. At the formation table you have to make arrangements with each other about how you want to settle that. I can't just do that in missionary status, I'd say. Sometimes I wish I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u311	I am very pleased that the Minister is addressing the problem experienced by the self-employed. Especially in artists in the arts and culture sector, we can see that they can still get into real trouble. You also indicate that there is a budget and that there has been good consultation with municipalities and with the VNG. However, we have received signals that there are occasional differences between municipalities. My question to the Minister is: how do you ensure that the differences in policy or implementation between municipalities, with which you claim to make good agreements, do not become too large?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u312	That's actually a continuous search. At the TONK, we saw the same thing. In the first phase, municipalities were reluctant to offer the TONK and there were also large differences in the level of compensation. We did two things back then. One, we've increased the budget and two, we've been talking to municipalities to get a little more harmonisation. The difficult point, of course, always remains that municipalities themselves are responsible for social policy and for shaping supplementary social policy and that there are also logical local differences. Amsterdam's labour market, with a large part of art and culture and a large number of self-employed people, is a different labour market than that of another city in the country. Then you must have the opportunity to offer customization. But we are constantly in consultation with the municipalities and with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to see if anything of harmonisation can take place in the scheme, so that it also becomes easier to communicate with the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u313	I am very happy to hear that there is a commitment to the colleague of the Christian Union. Fingers on the wrist are our favorite. But our question is as follows. It's exactly about the talks with the VNG. The Minister is doing well, ambitiously, but our question is actually smaller. We've run into the limits of a very specific old Bbz. I don't need to repeat history. We have the Tozo and also now a temporary Bbz regime until December. Wouldn't it be wise, instead of discussing everything in this very big labour market discussion, which hopefully will take place one day when there is a formation in which content is spoken, very focused and very small because there is now so much knowledge of the implementation of this very specific scheme to sit down with municipalities: what are we going to learn from this? Because from January onwards, that old arrangement will just come back into force. It may be that the conclusion is: we do so and that is exactly what is needed. But it may also be that we learn something with each other at a table like this. Would the Minister agree to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u314	I'm trying to go back in my head two years ago, for corona. In my opinion, there were not many major problems with the Bbz in practice at the time. The Bbz was really a safety net for entrepreneurs when it comes to entrepreneurial risks, I'll say. The question is whether the Bbz is really that imperfect. Apart from that, I can see more broadly in the self-employed debate that there are problems when it comes to the basis of the labour market, where there is unfair competition, no level playing field and that sort of thing, but that fits in with the broader discussion, I think. So I wouldn't want to jump to the conclusion that the Bbz is imperfect. What I think is imperfect is the legal regulation of self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u315	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u316	Finally. This is exactly the conversation we want to have. We hope that at the end of the year there will no longer be any independent entrepreneurs which we think are 'oh, please don't let them go into assistance', because they are still working on the route. But suppose that's the case, hopefully in very small numbers. Is it not wise, then, to sit down with congregations and have this very conversation? The conclusion could then be that we are simply going to apply the old regime. But it may also be that people come up with something. I heard the minister promise to talk to the VNG and the municipalities and look: we have this temporary arrangement, how do we proceed and learn from each other so that we could do something from January on, or not if that's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u317	If that's what Mrs Maatoug means, I agree with her immediately. In fact, we discuss the social domain with the Association of Dutch Municipalities almost every week. Then we'll definitely do this. It's a combination. The commitment to Mr Grinwis on the wrist and looking at the development I would like to take up with Mrs Maatoug's question. Then I come to the block of poverty and debt. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA and also Mr Bart van Kent of the SP asked whether the municipalities have the security and also the money to help people who end up in poverty and debt. As we have also outlined in the letter we are discussing today, we have made additional funds available again for 2022. It concerns 15 million for special assistance and 30 million for municipal debt policy. The crisis services of the regional mobility teams, 75 million, have also been made available to the municipalities in order to be able to do so. We have also allocated the budget for the regional mobility tables and practical learning in the MBO for 2022 in order to implement this, to help people get to a job or to a training course to a new job. Moreover, for 2022, 60 million will remain available for the provision of services to welfare recipients, precisely to help people who have entered the assistance to get out of the assistance to a job. So we have made additional money available, both for benefits to jobs, income policies and debt policies. As I have just said to Mrs Maatoug, we have, of course, regular discussions with the municipalities on these developments. We're holding a strong finger on the wrist. We are also looking to see if more people are coming to the municipal desks with debt problems and if we have enough money and tools available to help this group. These budgets actually reflect the wishes of Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Kent. Mr Van Kent had the specific question of whether the number of people living in poverty has increased and whether it is increasing. For this we have the intensification approach of poverty and debt, under the responsibility of the Secretary of State. We do this together with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, in order to get a better picture and also to better reach the groups, the existing ones, but also the new groups that are now reporting to the municipal offices with debt problems. We want to get a better idea of that and monitor it. The first intermediate results will be available by the end of 2021. They are sent to your Chamber so that you can see what has happened there and what is happening in practice in the municipalities. By the way, Divosa, the association of social services, monitors monthly requests for debt relief in corona time, to keep a finger on the wrist here as well. So we try to keep a finger on the wrist here and prevent people from remaining behind with over-indebtedness, by means of extra budgets, agreements with the municipalities and monitoring them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u318	There was, of course, a clear signal that 2.6 million are already unable to pay their bills regularly and that this is going to increase because people have incurred debts in connection with the corona situation. The question I would like to ask the Minister is whether he does not have to do so himself; that someone could do at the Ministry.. would like to contact all the municipalities in the Netherlands in order to identify what needs there are. After all, we are getting signs from several places that there are deficits, that there is more demand for all kinds of provision in kind, for special assistance, for debt relief routes and for other things, and that more money is needed for the implementation of a number of schemes. If we talk about the Social Affairs budget for next year, we will know what additional budget would be needed to organise it in a somewhat better way in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u319	We have no or at least not always been in contact with all the municipalities. We often have contact with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which acts as a kind of collection of all municipalities in the Netherlands. Together with the VNG, we have the intensification approach to poverty and debt, precisely in order to quickly bring out the signals that Mr Van Kent is referring to from different municipalities in the country. I have just said that the approach we have taken there, the intensification effort, is now being monitored and evaluated. At the end of 2021 we have the first results. I do not know if that is for the budget. I'd like to check with you in the suspension in a moment. I will do so in the spirit of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u320	If we want to organise an extra budget for next year, it would be nice if we knew for the budget what the local authorities were asking for. If that evaluation and that monitoring come to the Chamber by the end of 2021, it is too late. In such a case, perhaps the VNG could be asked to go around the fields to see what budget is needed, in addition, to carry out the tasks properly and to fight poverty in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u321	I understand the question, but I find it difficult to answer it here. I don't know exactly what appointments there are, but they've been going on for a long time. Tamara van Ark started this two years ago, with the intensification approach. For the second term, I can find out what that picture is. Mr Gijs van Dijk, as well as Mrs Maatoug, PvdA and GroenLinks, asked for the abolition of the search period for young people. Mr Aartsen had a nice interruption debate with Mrs Maatoug. The cabinet sees that, now that there is a real shortage on the labour market, now that there are more job vacancies than jobseekers, there is no longer any reason in a generic sense. The four-week search period in the Participation Act aims to prevent young people up to 27 years of age becoming needlessly dependent on assistance and to allow them to take their own responsibility for entering employment or undergoing training. Having said that, the application of customization by municipalities in the search period of four weeks remains possible, including for vulnerable young people. There are, of course, groups that cannot manage themselves. This individual assessment can be given in the municipal execution. These customization options are described in the Handleiting bespokewerk Participation Act for homeless and homeless young people, drawn up by Divosa earlier this year. A motion has been tabled on this subject, I think Mr Smeulders, Mrs Maatoug's predecessor, at the time. As a result, there are these tailor-made options, but the cabinet is not in favour of letting that generic fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u322	Yet the figures are really different, because macro of course it is true. There are incredibly many vacancies, even more vacancies than job seekers at the moment. But if you look at the unemployment figures, then the largest group is the young. Over 100,000 young people under 25, 7.3%, are at home. Of the group of 25 and over, this is just over 2%. So there's really a difference between a youngster looking for a job and now sitting at home... that's why we're lighting that up. We don't do that based on a feeling. That's based on the numbers. We are not asking for much, but given the blows this group has already had, I expect that we will suspend that search period. Because these young people can also get to work, given the number of vacancies, but we have to support them from day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u323	As I said in my introduction, young people have suffered the biggest blows as a result of the corona crisis. I agree with Mr Van Dijk immediately. That is why we have already made additional funds available in the supplementary social package to combat youth unemployment. So there is extra money available for that. This is also included in the regional mobility tables with the municipalities, among others. This includes measures to ensure that young people either continue learning and thus gain a better position on the labour market, or get help in finding work. That does not change either by ending the measure of that search period. There is even special attention in this approach for vulnerable school leavers. We know that this group is there and that it needs a little help to find its way to the labour market. Mr Gijs van Dijk is right that youth unemployment was 7.4% in August. That is higher than average, but we can also see that it is falling very quickly now. In fact, unemployment is the fastest falling among young people, because there are enormous labour market opportunities. So I think we're both right. We are going through with this because we see that there is a group of vulnerable young people who really need a little help and guidance. Hence the exception for municipalities for this vulnerable group, but we no longer see any reason to extend it generically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u324	Then we will continue to disagree on this, I would say 'generic', but we simply disagree on this. I think this should be done, given the last year and a half. I would like to return to poverty and debt. We see that many municipalities, due to the enormous pressure caused by the lack of budget in the social domain, are reluctant to act to bring people from welfare to work or directly from work to work. There's a real problem there. That's wider than just poverty and debt. It is a very big problem for the Netherlands. It's really all around that social domain. I hope the Minister sees that, too. That is something for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u325	I can see that, too. In fact, I also know the signals from the consultation with the UNG. With Rutger Groot Wassink, the alderman of Amsterdam, and Peter Heijkoop, that of Dordrecht, I have regular meetings. They have already indicated that they would like more funding for reintegration, for example, for the provision of services to job seekers. This has also been given a place in the various election programmes. This is also an important issue in the medium-term ESC opinion: regional infrastructure, from job to job, or from benefit to job. At the same time, I think that is really a subject for formation. For 2022, however, we have ensured that the budget for regional mobility tables is maintained and that the budget for the reintegration of 60 million remains available, precisely in order to avoid destroying the infrastructure that we have just built up in corona time by 2022. In my opinion, Mr Van Dijk and I agree on the direction, but it requires a missionary cabinet to give them hands and feet after 2022. Then there is Gijs van Dijk's question about the compensation of sw companies. We decided to provide EUR 35 million from 1 January to 1 July for the compensation of SW companies as a result of the damage caused by the corona measures. This has to do with the fact that SW companies cannot use the NOW, as you know. We have also set aside an amount of 10 million for additional compensation from 1 July to 1 October 2021. We will keep our finger on the pulse to see if the financial situation will give rise to the availability of part of that amount or the whole amount later this year. The Secretary of State, Mr Wiersma, is currently conducting a quick scan of the financial situation of SW companies. He does so on the occasion of the Slootweg/Van Kent motion. This quickscan will soon inform your Room by letter, so you can get a better view of the situation. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. Mr Amhaouch asked for reintegration. I was just saying, yeah, it's getting a little scaly. We had first estimated a larger budget for 2022, but we also see that the inflow is much lower. Of course, that has everything to do with low unemployment. The estimate of the Central Planning Bureau for 2022 was 6.5% unemployment a year ago, but we are now at 3.6% unemployment. This is also reflected in the lower influx of unemployed people. We thought it appropriate to reduce that amount slightly, but at the same time I refer to the debate we had just had with Gijs van Dijk, and we also thought it appropriate to make that money available to the municipalities, so that they can give substance to this. Finally, Mr President. Mr Van Haga had a question about the labour market shortage. How do we make sure that the people who are now working in the test streets pick up their old job in the hospitality industry? The GGDs have, of course, rightly been given an enormous amount of capacity for vaccination and testing. I really liked that the people who were fired in sectors that were close at that time could find a job at the GGD at that time. There's a lot of demand for staff now. The test capacity is scaled down, making people available for the labour market again. Ultimately, of course, it is a free game of supply and demand. Employers and workers must work together to discuss wages, attractive working conditions and working hours. Part of it will recover itself in the coming period. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u327	Was it fast enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u328	Sure. I think we're impressed. But maybe there's still some interruptions. First of all, Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u329	I would like to thank the Minister for the sharp answer to the questions, but he is missing one: the question about the border workers. Seven of the twelve provinces in the Netherlands border on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u330	It's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u331	Then all I have to do is compliment the Minister. The other compliments may still be coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u332	Thank you. We'll clean for a minute and then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance. The Secretary of State stays behind because of his back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u333	Thank you, Mr President. I have a number of issues, including, indeed, the border workers. But I will start with the debts at the Tax Office and the solidarity levy. After that, I have three small topics, including working at home. I'll start with the tax debts. Mrs Van der Plas triggered me by saying: "How is that actually happening now? Because I read that the Tax Administration is going to recover again." I will say a little more about that in a moment. In my view, the Tax Administration has shown itself on its very best side in guiding and helping entrepreneurs during this period. A total of 40 billion in tax delays has been granted. That happened very quickly and very smoothly. That's what needs to be said. There's a lot of criticism about the IRS, but they've done a very good job. This liquidity has been crucial for Dutch entrepreneurs and for people who work in those companies. At the same time, we have always been very broad with the redemption regime. We've always chosen long repayment periods. The corona debts do not have to be repaid until October 1st next year. That happens in five years, so that's a very long time. I say to Mr Azarkan that we are also flexible with interest, because we are slowly increasing interest rates during that period. We are not doing this for nothing, because if you slow down interest rates, there is also an incentive for entrepreneurs to pay off. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a mini-discussion in the debate on forgiveness. I believe that the whole House actually agrees that we should not just dismiss all the across the board, across the board. That's been my line ever since this came up. That was at the beginning of this year. There are a number of reasons for which are actually quite simple. The most important reason is that it's just not that fair. In my opinion, Mr Azarkan and others too, we have discussed this before in committee debates on taxation, that it is not fair to all those entrepreneurs who have done their best to pay. But then you will remain at the point where Mr Aartsen and others asked for attention. It is a legitimate question, for which the cabinet also has an eye: how do you deal with an entrepreneur who would have a viable business if he did not have to repay that debt? That's the point here. So if even those five years aren't spacious enough to repay that debt, you can go a few ways. You can say: I'm going to extend that term even further, but then that becomes a kind of lead block on the entrepreneur's leg. Next week, before the General Financial Reviews, I will send the Chamber a more precise letter on what I am doing. Mr Aartsen asked a little for principles; I will try to explain them. What I'm doing is looking at what we can do for viable companies. So in spite of that generous redemption policy, that long-term, those low interest rates, they can't survive and they can't invest. What we could do about this is, together with other creditors, try to create a sort of reorganisation policy for these companies. In other words, what you're trying to do is help a viable company by letting all creditors swallow a small piece of the debt. That's the thought. If the Tax Administration would do so alone, the Tax Administration is reading: the Dutch citizen is actually subsidising the other creditors. That cannot be the intention, but the Tax Administration would be able to take a first step in next week's letter by, for example, doing something about its preferred position in this case. As you know, the Tax Administration actually has a double claim against other creditors in bankruptcy, but you could do something about that preferential position in a viable company. This is what you have to do with the other creditors. You will also have to do this temporarily, because if you do it permanently then this is not exactly an incentive to pay off your tax debt. I will send a letter to the Chamber next week so that we can discuss this further during the General Financial Reviews. These would be the principles. Mrs van der Plas, on this point, I still owe the answer to the next question. She said: I read with fear and tremble that the tax authorities are going to recover. Well, in the light of history, I understand that you read it with fear and trembling, but at the same time you should be pleased with it, because it is our taxpayers' money that we pay all kinds of things with. So that's the other side of recovery. But we're going to do that very carefully. You have probably also read the press reports that the Tax Administration is really going to try to apply human standards. People get a notice in advance that they can be recovered, and then we do it very slowly, so that the hard recovery orders, pay claims and so on only start running from next year. But there comes a time when the tax authorities will have to ask for money again from people who owe money to us all. That's what the IRS does. Once again, at my express request, he will do so smoothly and with the human measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u334	I'm familiar with the IRS. I think I've been paying taxes for about 30 years, so I know what the IRS is doing and what happens with it. In view of the premium affair, my specific question was: how is the Secretary of State, the Ministry, monitoring that things are going well? Of course, I'm convinced that it's going well and that most of the people who work there, it's just good will. But there are always excesses; they are everywhere. In every sector, you have things that don't go well. So my specific question is: are you going to monitor this and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u335	That's a good question. Mrs van der Plas can be assured that the Tax Administration, and this Secretary of State, of course, have learned from what has happened there in the past. We are deeply ashamed of this and we do not need to talk about it now. That means that I told you that we are doing so much more carefully than we would have done ten years ago, I think. So the way we do that is one. Now to the question: how do you keep an eye on that? First of all, as a political boss of the Tax Administration, I keep an eye on that myself. If I get signals, or if signals come from society, we'll act on them or we'll act on them immediately. Those signals about the IRS are coming real fast these days. That is the advantage of such a scandal. I hope that answers Mrs van der Plas' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u336	Surely that's an answer. I'm not saying it's happening; maybe it's all going well. We must always assume the good in man. But should it happen, can I also send emails to the Secretary of State via the President? Not send the e-mail through the chairman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u337	That's okay, too. Then I'll lead them through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u338	Okay, I'll put Mrs. Bergkamp in the cc's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u339	The short answer is yes, please. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the subject of solidarity levy. I am almost there during the debate... I see Mr Eerdmans walking forward, so I am waiting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u340	I shall begin by giving Mr Eerdmans the opportunity for his interruption. Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u341	Yes, this is also out of solidarity actually, but on the previous point. I asked you about the 19 billion outstanding debt on tax delays. How many of these can reasonably and realistically be expected to return to the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u342	Yeah, I'm sorry, I forgot that question, for which I apologize. We made an estimate of that; I thought it was in a letter once too. But I would also like to mention the amount. The estimate is that there could be about 1.5 billion irrecoverable debts. The reason why I do not actively spend that amount on the farmer is actually two-fold. This is a really rough estimate. How are you supposed to estimate that? And the second is that the policy I just outlined is not just about helping those entrepreneurs through the winter when they get into trouble. More importantly, or at least as important, you also retain the maximum revenue for the treasury. That is how I understood Mr Eerdmans' question. If you're too flexible as a tax authority, you're obviously gonna miss money, but if you're too strict, you're gonna miss money too. So we're looking here for some sort of optimum of those two things. You're gonna get this amount. But don't pin me on this amount. It's almost impossible to estimate. Last time, when the first lockdown went off, entrepreneurs suddenly relieved huge amounts of money from their outstanding debts. After this time, I find it somewhat disappointing what has so far been repaid from these debts. This may have to do with the fact that these entrepreneurs are now further out of their reserves. Anything could be going on. So our expectation is this now, but do not pin me on an amount, because that is almost impossible to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u343	I won't, but it's about 17,5 billion, if I add it up correctly. Then it is indeed the question of whether an entrepreneur does not think: I just wait until it doesn't progress after all. You're also looking for a little justice in reclaiming. At the same time, I don't think you want to press anyone in such a way that it's just gonna be downsides and we're gonna push them into the abyss. Then I'll leave it at that. This is okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u344	Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to the solidarity levy. Following a motion by Mr Amhaouch, we sent a letter to the Chamber this afternoon. The essence of that letter is, in fact, already summarised by others in the debate. It is not possible to do something with retroactive effect; that is undesirable. To do something specifically is a technical disaster. So you have a number of generic instruments left. Those generic instruments are mentioned neatly in that letter. Anyone can read that. Those generic instruments are an increase in the corporate tax rate, the shortening of the disc where the lower rate applies and the SME profit exemption. Those are pretty much the instruments you can slide with. I will say a few words about the instrument suggested by Mr Grinwis I see him getting up, namely the dividend tax. But those are the instruments you can act with. Again, it's impossible to go back. Anything's possible. The cabinet showed that last week, at least, the Chamber showed that, if I'm more precise. Mrs Hermans' motion raises corporate tax as a result. I should also like to point out that in the same motion, which was widely supported by the Chamber, the deduction of interest on debt, the so-called earnings stripping, has been severely reduced. This is also at the expense of the profits of companies. So in that sense, I agree with the Members who have just said: companies are already heavily paid for the crisis. You can also want more; that is a question of political choices. I shall then turn to Mr Grinwis' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u345	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u346	If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says it is up to the Chamber to decide. Of course, if we want to make a decision on this, we must do so quickly, otherwise it will only be effective in 2023. Can you specify a time limit in which the Court should decide on this? And what would your view as Secretary of State be if the Chamber instructed the Cabinet to prepare a decision for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u347	I just need to check the exact date. I thought that's what parameter changes are called, which can be done until mid-November. Then we'll deal with the Tax Plan. Otherwise, in the second term, I will come back to that very precisely. The second question is a political question. It is not going to answer the Secretary of State, but it will answer the cabinet on behalf of the cabinet. The cabinet now has no intention of further increasing corporate tax. If the Chamber then amends the Tax Plan by majority, you can even amend it there, then the Cabinet commits itself to carrying out that kind of assignment. That's how it's done. I suppose I'm afraid to say it again, at some point we'll get another formation from a cabinet. That is where this issue could be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u348	I would also like to hear the precise deadline for dealing with the Social Affairs budget. But if you want to introduce such a measure, you should not wait until 2023. I think the Secretary of State would soon agree with the SP on that. If you are talking about a solidarity levy in relation to the aid given to companies during the corona period, it is of course crazy to wait until one and a half years, two years after the outbreak of that pandemic. Would it therefore be necessary to use this immediately or as soon as possible, namely from 1 January 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u349	I don't really hear a question. It is more a logical conclusion from Mr Van Kent, namely that, if you want to tie it to the corona crisis, when it has ended, you must do so quickly. That seems logical to me. But you can also show solidarity later. You can do it a year later. I think this is all playing with the thought of a further Vpb increase. That's what we're talking about in practice. I repeat my point: the cabinet has no intention of doing so. If the Chamber wants anything else, we'd like to hear it during the treatment of the Tax Plan. Then Mr Grinwis asked: can you do this with the dividend tax by increasing the dividend tax? Yes, anything can be said, but to speak to Elsschot: there are limitations. For example, we have concluded tax treaties with a lot of countries, in which we have agreed that the dividend tax should not exceed 15%. The dividend tax is only levied on Dutch companies. My sincere advice would be: if you wanted to do this, I would do it not through the dividend tax, but through corporation tax. But this is only a technical opinion to Mr Grinwis. That brings me to three small questions that were still there, not small in size, but small in the answer, because they are quite quick to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u350	Before you continue. I saw Mr Grinwis walking very fast, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u351	It is another question from Mr Grinwis. It was about the RRF, the European fund. Mr Grinwis asked: "Don't we leave money there that we shouldn't leave? This point has been raised a number of times, coincidentally in my presence, in a finance committee debate in preparation for the ECOFIN Council in Brussels. The Minister has always stated that if there is no clear progress in the formation there on 1 October, if there is no clear progress in the formation, I will tell the Chamber that I will send a note to the Chamber on how I intend to deal with this during the missionary period. That's what we're talking about. It is not, I say to Mr Grinwis, that we are missing money because we are late. The most compelling requirement is that 70% of the funds should be committed to Member States by the end of 2022. So we still have some time. In the light of my Brussels experience, my advice to my own minister would be not to wait much longer. It's getting a little crazy: we're, I think, the only ones. Then I have a cheerful announcement about working at home to Mr Amhaouch. He asked about homework contracts. They were extended last week both with Belgium and with Germany until the end of this year. That was also published on the website of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u352	Remains me to use my last interruption for a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u353	Thank you. Then I have one question left in the area of the Minister of Finance, for whom I am observing today. It's about budgetary policy. What is the lesson you learned from this period? I would like to draw the following lesson from this for all the countries in the world affected by this pandemic. It helps a lot to build buffers in your budget policy in good times. We already knew that, but now we know it even better. That sounds like an open door, but it's not that open. Saving in good times is really harder than we all know. In a way, it is a compliment to the previous cabinet and the cabinet after that that they have built such a buffer. That's what we learned from this. The second thing we have learned from this is that if such a pandemic happens and everything stops, it is wise to leave nothing to chance or speculation about how much money you have available to intervene. That's the second thing we've learned from this. But I would add that that is in this particular situation. The comparison that is often made is of great concern to me, because I was thesaurier-general during that period, so I feel appealed to by it. The easy comparison with that period, in 2012 and 2013 with the euro crisis and the banking crisis just behind us and all its consequences, and the statement that there were wrong policies then and now good policies, is too simple. The circumstances are different, it's a different kind of crisis, but what we've learned from them are these two great lessons. If we were to have another crisis, would we be doing the same thing again as we are doing now? If we have the same buffer, probably. But you also have to keep looking at where the crisis came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u354	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I got some signals that the Chamber likes to go straight ahead, but I'll check it out just in case. I can see a lot of people nodding, but Mrs Van der Plas wants to suspend for ten minutes. With your permission, I would like to continue, because once the motions have been tabled, we need to suspend for a while. Then the rulers have to look at the motions for an appreciation. I notice that there is a need for a very small suspension of a few minutes. That is what we are going to do and then we are going to proceed with the tabling of motions and, if necessary, questions. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u355	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the debate on the Corona Support Package. We have come to the second term of office. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u356	Thank you. I will start with the question to Minister Koolmees when he gives a feedback from the discussion with companies on the reimbursement of state aid, including the broadcasting sector. I have to conclude that the VLN, which is presented as new, is a continuation of the TVL 2.0, as Mr Aartsen says. I'd appreciate it if I could see that in communication, too. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas until 1 October municipalities had the possibility to support young unemployed people directly, including financially;]] [[Considering that more than 100,000 young people are out of work and that they often need support in finding work;]] [[calls on the Government to renew the decision to take measures to reintegrate young people and to abolish the search period for young people until 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of people in poverty has increased further in the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas the cost of groceries, heating and rent is constantly increasing;]] [[calls on the government to encourage municipalities to use all available resources to address the most urgent needs of people living in poverty and if this is insufficient to provide additional resources, and to inform the SZW Committee on the Budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-366]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-367]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u358	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for an answer from Mr Koolmees on this point, but I shall submit my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Nibud indicates that 2.6 million households are difficult to survive and that poverty and debt will only grow in the aftermath of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas, in 2022, municipalities are faced with expenditure on poverty, debt and implementation costs resulting from the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the financial deficits and the financial resources needed to optimise the functioning of debt relief, poverty reduction, special assistance and the implementation apparatus in all municipalities, and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter for the treatment of the Social Affairs and Employment budget 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Maatoug and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u360	Then there is a motion on the tax on profits, which has already been discussed a great deal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there was broad support for the Amhaouch motion calling on the Cabinet to explore policy variants for the introduction of a solidarity levy for companies that have made a profit;]] [[noting that both an increase in corporate tax and a reduction in the SME profit exemption are presented as viable options;]] [[points out that raising corporate tax is a good form of solidarity levy;]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber for the increase of corporate tax in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet with the VLN proposes a weakened form of the TVL;]] [[noting that this reduces wage support for workers who are less likely to work as a result of the corona measures;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for entrepreneurs to be compensated for labour costs through the VLN and to send a proposal to the Chamber for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Maatoug and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-369]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for answering the questions. Thank you, too, to my fellow Members for the arguments in the debate. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the recovery interest rate had been set at 0.01% during the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas it is not the fault of the corrupted companies that they have incurred debts with the Tax Administration as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[whereas, therefore, a recovery rate of up to 4% is unreasonable;]] [[Invites the Government to fix the recovery interest rate beyond 31 December 2021 at 0.01% for all corona-related debts with the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more than 70% of all travel destinations are still closed on the basis of public policy and that this continues to affect the travel industry;]] [[whereas many taxi drivers depend for a large part on their income on nightlife and that the closing of the nighthoreca at 00.00 hours thus hits the taxi industry hard;]] [[calls on the government to support the travel industry and taxi drivers in a similar way to the nighthoreca,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to increase the VAT rate for mouth masks and tests to the regular rate of 21%;]] [[Whereas this is unfair, as masks and tests will still be necessary in certain situations;]] [[Whereas citizens and businesses should not be rushed into unnecessary costs;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the VAT rate for mouth masks and tests at 0% for the year 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-371]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-372]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u362	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the requirement for a 50% reduction in turnover in order to benefit from the VLN scheme is an increase compared to the requirement for a 30% reduction in turnover under the TVL scheme;]] [[calls on the Government not to apply the 50% requirement but to apply the 30% reduction in turnover to the VLN scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that testing streets take up much of the available labour;]] [[Whereas staff in many test streets have little to do;]] [[calls on the Government to scale the test streets where possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether the abolition of the one and a half meter rule together with the introduction of the corona pass will lead to a higher or lower turnover;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the effects on the turnover of this combination of measures and to report back to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-376]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-375]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u363	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas during the entire corona crisis the dga has only had support to pay the salary of its employees and not for its own salary;]] [[calls on the government to examine how dga can also be financially supported in the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u364	I would also like to say that I was particularly satisfied with the struggle of Minister Koolmees. I would like to thank Gijs van Dijk most sincerely for his co-subscribers. This reminds me of the old Labour Party, which is always good for the entrepreneur, who builds houses and does good things. It's important that we have a left-wing driver's party, and we actually don't have one anymore. Unless you count D66, but we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u365	Thank you. There were a lot of entrapments in there, but I'm glad everyone stays put. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u366	Through you, President, thank you for the answers and once again compliments for the implementation, as Mr Azarkan has already said. There are two motions from GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during the corona crisis it was found that the existing safety net forzzp's was insufficient;]] [[noting that the Tozo is stopped and that the Bbz is adjusted for three months;]] [[Calls on the government to take stock of the mid-term review with municipalities for the budgetary treatment of SZW, taking into account different labour market scenarios;]] [[calls on the government to examine with municipalities whether lessons have been learned from the implementation of the Tozo and the temporary Bbz and, on this basis, to develop possible options for an improved safety net forzzp'ers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-378]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u367	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scheme "NL learns through the use of development advice" has proved to be very successful;]] [[noting that the scheme will cease on 30 September, while the STEP budget will not be available until 1 March 2022;]] [[believes that as much as possible retraining to promising sectors should be encouraged, especially in these times of labour shortages;]] [[calls on the government to keep the scheme "NL learns by using development advice' open until 31 December 2021 and to make 14 million available for 20,000 additional development advisory pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u368	Mr President, three motions from the VVD. The first is about the ATE, the small-scale events. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet announced the ATE to reimburse the costs for cancelled small-scale events between 10 July 2021 and 20 September 2021;]] [[Whereas it may take a long time for these fees to appear on the accounts of these events;]] [[Whereas, given the numbers of municipalities, advances can be paid relatively quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify to the municipalities within one month what the ATE looks like and to point out to them the possibility of paying advances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Amhaouch and Romke de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u369	A motion on the problem debts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet indicated that it, together with private creditors and the Tax Administration, is looking for an appropriate approach for the remission of problem debts from entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to develop a good approach to dealing with these problem debts outside the legal framework of the Failsement Act and WHOA;]] [[Whereas it is important to establish clear criteria from the point of view of government;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an action plan on debt problems before the end of the year, setting out how to deal with entrepreneurs with debt problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Stoffer and Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-382]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u370	The last one's about my duck. I said about that: if it runs like a duck, it must be a duck, the VLN that is TVL 2.0. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, technically speaking, all companies which have more than 50% turnover losses in the fourth quarter 2021 and fulfil the other technical conditions are entitled to claim the VLN;]] [[Calls on the Government to align the public communication on the VLN scheme with the (technical) criteria of the VLN scheme that companies can rely on in the fourth quarter 2021, even if they are not nighthoreca,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Amhaouch, Romke de Jong, Stoffer, Grinwis, Van Kent and Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-383]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u371	If I wanted to tease the entire patriotic press, I would say that the motion is also tabled by the extra-parliamentary corona coalition, namely Mr Aartsen, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Stoffer, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Dijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u373	That was a little internal joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u374	Sure, you can. I think it's appreciated. Then I look at Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u375	Mr. Chairman. I had three motions, but I put the first one together with Mr Aartsen's motion from the VVD. So he doesn't have to anymore. The second was about repaying the aid. I have been given a good commitment to this and I do not need it anymore. I have the epistle of the Royal Dutch Professional Organization of Accountants, which I mentioned. Through you, Chairman, I like to hand it over, I think, Minister Blok. But if it has to be Minister Koolmees, then so can it. But we're about to. I've got one motion left and it's about the catering business. As I said earlier, that coronapas can be removed from the table as far as we are concerned today. But as long as there is, we'll do our best to find space in there. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government requires certain economic operators and institutions to use corona access tickets;]] [[Whereas some catering operators want the freedom to choose the one-and-a-half meter rule instead of the corona ticket, in order to avoid a possible fall in turnover;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, for those sectors where a corona ticket is mandatory, whether and how entrepreneurs and institutions can be given the choice not to use corona access tickets, but instead to apply the one-and-a-half meter rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-384]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u376	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine how entrepreneurs who went bankrupt during the lockdown and can demonstrate by means of an audit report that their companies had positive figures in place prior to the corona measures, can be compensated where and if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-385]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u377	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue the financial corona support schemes, where and where necessary, after 1 October 2021 for entrepreneurs who have been in financial difficulties due to the corona measures taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-386]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u378	Finally, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop any obstructive corona measures by the end of each course,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-387]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u379	And another blessed evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u380	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Thanks to the messengers for the very quick cleaning, changing the drinks and copying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ending generic aid and recovery package consisted of temporary crisis measures designed and assembled in a short period of time;]] [[Whereas it is conceivable that the Netherlands will again face economic crises in the future and it is important to be prepared for this, for example with an "economic toolbox" with crisis measures that can be activated immediately if necessary;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has gained experience of such measures in the current and previous crises, such as the Knowledge Workers' Scheme, the part-time WW, the temporary increase in the Wbso or the R&D Mobility Sectors Grant Scheme;]] [[asks the government as part of a strategic policy for the Dutch manufacturing industry:]] [[review possible measures for future crises aimed at maintaining employment and knowledge, (re) training, continuity of production and security of supply, and stimulating investment and innovation;]] [[use experience from the corona crisis, previous crises and other countries;]] [[and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Palland, Mr Aartsen, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Grinwis, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-388]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u382	Mr. Chairman. I have to conclude that time is running very fast. Is the clock right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u383	It's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u384	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are sectors and companies, for example in the manufacturing industry, which will experience the effects of the corona crisis for a long time, e.g. due to suppliers' problems, a shortage of basic materials and high commodity prices;]] [[Whereas this would jeopardise the continuity of production and security of supply, as well as employment;]] [[Whereas a shortage of raw materials in certain sectors, such as the automotive industry and the construction and energy sectors, has already led to production stops;]] [[Considering the importance of security of supply for the future earning capacity of the Netherlands, to remain competitive and sustainable as a country and in the interest of strategic autonomy and major societal challenges;]] [[calls on the Government, together with industry, to take stock of the scale of this problem, the main sectors where it is struggling and possible solutions for both the short and medium term, and to make this part of the announced letter on the manufacturing industry, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Aartsen and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-389]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u385	Yeah, that's right. I would also like to thank the cabinet for the constructive attitude and the answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u386	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Romke de Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Aartsen just referred to an extra-parliamentary college. We haven't seen white smoke yet, but I have two motions on behalf of six parties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that 2021 is again not a normal year and that many entrepreneurs no longer have buffers due to seasonal influences;]] [[Considering that we should not allow these entrepreneurs to close their business in the port's sight because the aid measures stop;]] [[Whereas there are entrepreneurs who are unable to use profits from the summer months that allow them to pass through the winter in normal times;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine, together with financial institutions, how liquidity can be made available to companies that need capital through corona for Q4 2021 and Q1 2022, so that they can then stand on their own feet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Aartsen, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Grinwis, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-390]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u388	Mr. Chairman. Then there's another motion on the stopper arrangement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are entrepreneurs who wish to terminate their business despite the aid granted;]] [[Whereas stopping entails substantial costs and a possible residual debt;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for entrepreneurs to get into private trouble because they have to end their business as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[whereas only a debt restructuring scheme is now available;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how entrepreneurs can be helped to terminate their business without a huge debt burden due to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Aartsen, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Grinwis, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-391]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u390	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u391	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the messengers. Thank you to Mr Blok and Mr Koolmees for their good answers and to Mr Vijlbrief for his fantastic technical advice. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that half of the entrepreneurs who applied for NOW in the first round have not yet submitted a final statement to the UWV, while the deadline is 31 October;]] [[whereas many, especially small entrepreneurs, do not have a sharp eye on the retina or have little experience in such administrative processes;]] [[calls on the Government to approach SMEs with targeted communication on the final payment of wage support and, if necessary, to provide administrative support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Grinwis, Mr Romke de Jong, Mr Palland, Mr Maatoug, Mr Aartsen, Mr Stoffer, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-392]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u392	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the obligation of the corona access card has a significant impact in several respects on entrepreneurs in the sectors concerned;]] [[Whereas the mandatory corona access card may lead to the loss of businessmanship and turnover, as is evident in other countries;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the economic impact of requiring the corona access card, such as loss of turnover, on companies in the sectors affected by this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Grinwis, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Stoffer, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-393]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u393	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u394	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u395	Thank you. Thanks also to the rulers for the answers. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all economic operators are again obliged to pay tax in good time as from 1 October 2021;]] [[noting that several sectors such as the (business) event industry, the travel industry, fairs, restaurants, nightlife, culture and the tourism sector still have to deal with corona restrictions;]] [[Whereas the economic corona crisis for many companies in the said seasonal sectors is not yet over and the low turnover winter months are at hand;]] [[noting that the VLN/TVL 2.0 is likely to continue for these sectors;]] [[calls on the Government, in the case of the extension of the VLN/TVL 2.0 until 31 December 2021, to ensure that these entrepreneurs can apply for a deferred tax until 31 December 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that "the fair" belongs to the list of intangible heritage;]] [[noting that fairgrounds, especially in the hundreds of smaller municipalities in rural areas, are an important tradition which ensures a high level of social cohesion;]] [[Whereas all the corona measures have allowed the fairground industry to earn little in 2021, the fairground season is now almost over and many operators are falling apart;]] [[invites the Cabinet to discuss (when stopping generic support and/or maintaining restrictive covid measures) with the carnival industry in order to see how this sector, with which everyone in the Netherlands has grown, can continue to receive specific and appropriate support for the time needed, so that future generations can also enjoy fairground fun, a rich tradition and folklore for the Netherlands and not miss out on villages and small communities in the countryside,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-394]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-395]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u396	The pedal for the interrupting microphone is really lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u397	He always does it to me, but I also have heavy feet. You might want to put on sneakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u398	It seems to be your boots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u399	Then I'm gonna have to yell. Of course, I support this motion, but I have to say that I have already received a commitment from the government to engage with the SME Netherlands, the Dutch Fair Federation and also the BOVAK. So that commitment is already there. Of course we won't be childish. We will certainly support your motion, but I must honestly say that it is actually superfluous, because it has already been promised to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u400	Okay, thank you for this explanation. I'll wait for the Minister's appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u401	Thank you, Mrs van der Plas. I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u402	Thank you, Mr President. I understand from the walkways that it's just gonna be the old coalition. So we're back to square one six months later, the idea is if it's true. We can organize a quiet trip, but that won't help much. It's a fact. I don't have any motions. I thank the rulers for their answers. I'm gonna take a look at colleagues' motions. I would like to give it to the cabinet to keep in very close contact with the branches we are talking about, because it is particularly important when it comes to information provision, contact, for example with Horeca Nederland, with the event industry and perhaps with the travel organizations. Look it up and keep it warm, because there's part of the problem. But I wish the cabinet members every success in implementing the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u403	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy. Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u404	Mrs van der Plas' motion for a resolution on the fairgrounds, that is my name. So if the clerk wants to do that, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u405	All right. That's nice anyway, I think. That's how we're gonna pass this along. Thank you very much. I call Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have five brief motions. I'll read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister does not rule out the application of 2G policy;]] [[Whereas 2G policy leads to further erosion of freedom;]] [[points out that the 2G system should never become part of the policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only members of the OMT are involved in important decision-making;]] [[Whereas it is important to hear different points of view and views;]] [[welcomes the fact that, in the very short term, a hearing on vaccination policy will be organised with the OMT's virologists along with those who have different views from those of the OMT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 1 of the Dutch Constitution guarantees the right to equal treatment;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that an estimated 2 million non-sticks should be excluded from society;]] [[Whereas a vote against this motion directly amounts to the adoption of apartheid;]] [[noting that discrimination based on the coronapas is unconstitutional;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the corona pass immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas people without QR code are currently restricted in their freedom of movement;]] [[points out that discrimination based on medical status is also discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to this discrimination on the basis of medical status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-396]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-397]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-398]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Houwelingen and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u407	Finally, in my final seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 28 September it was announced that a National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism was appointed, which will start on 15 October;]] [[Whereas there is currently serious discrimination based on medical status;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism to speak out against discrimination based on medical status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u408	I had the impression in the first term that Mr Van Houwelingen was very confused. It appears to be, because he has come to the wrong debate. These are all proposals relating to corona policy, which must be discussed with Mr De Jonge and which have also been discussed recently; I have followed the debate. But here we are talking about how we deal with employees, entrepreneurs andzzp'ers and what support packages there are. All these proposals have nothing to do with that, so I think you're a little lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u409	I don't think I'm lost. Entrepreneurs, of course, also have to do with this. If, for example, 2G policies are introduced in the near future, will they suffer? These are, so to speak, Titanic emotions, which are indeed about the big picture, and you then have the orchestral emotions. That's fine. That's the difference between us. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u410	If I can make another additional comment, these are, of course, motions which can be particularly appreciated by the VWS Minister, who is not present today. I think that makes it difficult. But again, you may file the motions. The appreciation will come from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u411	As far as we're concerned, they'd rather not be appreciated. We're not necessarily in favour of appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u412	I shall give the floor to Mr Van Kent and then to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u413	I think that Mr Van Houwelingen has missed a few turns and has come to the wrong place with proposals that are already questionable, but really do not belong in this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u414	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u415	...and out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u416	That's what you said. I shall give the floor to Mr Azarkan, and you will have the floor again. Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u417	About the motion in which he asks the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u418	To also pay attention to discrimination on the basis of medical apartheid, yes. That's the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u419	No, no, because you were fatally opposed to that appointment. Your party voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u420	At least we're in favour of him taking care of that as well. So if he does get there, then also for discrimination based on medical apartheid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u421	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to give the motions an appreciation and to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u422	The next item is the debate on the Corona Support Package, the second term of office. A number of questions remain to be answered and the motions must be appreciated. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, shared the motions with my colleagues in terms of carrying capacity. I should like to begin by thanking Mr Eerdmans for being the only one who has not tabled a motion. Of course, it is the right of the Chamber to table motions, but it is also okay if it does not happen. I will tell him that we are in close contact with sectors. It's a fair call. I'll start with the motion in part No. 370. The previous motions will be made by Mr Koolmees. Mr Van Kent's motion calls for entrepreneurs to be allowed to be compensated for labour costs. I really shouldn't recommend that. I am not repeating the changed situation in society's economy. In addition, the linking of labour costs to this scheme is also not technically feasible. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan asked the government to support the travel industry and taxi drivers in a similar way with an arrangement. For the sake of shortness, too, I refer to the debate on the reason why I do not want a broadening or new sector-specific arrangements. I therefore also advise against the motion in part No. 372. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga asked others to carry out an investigation into the effects on the turnover of this combination of measures. I notice it's a mess in my motions right now. I'm gonna go ahead with the motion on part number one. 375. I will probably then come to the answer of the motion in part No. 374. I don't have one right here. The motion in part No. 375, also by Mr Van Haga, invites the government to scale the test streets wherever possible. Um, that... Yeah, that's policy support, because that's what's happening. So I can leave this to the Court's judgment. The motion in part No. 376 also belongs to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u424	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mrs Van der Plas of BBB about a motion from someone else probably. Isn't it? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u425	Yeah, that's right. Scaling down test streets is a policy, but last week a motion was adopted to add a number of test sites in rural areas. Otherwise, people in the countryside will have to travel for another two hours. I was curious, not so much about the motion-holder but more of: is the policy now that those test locations are falling again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u426	I'll be brief. Of course, this isn't my turf. I'm getting another question about testing locations in the country. Then I request the motion in part No. Three-five-five-five. Then the Chamber will receive a written response to both questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u427	That seems to me to be a fair point. I would like to look at Mr Van Haga if he is prepared to hold on to his motion so that it can be seen in conjunction with Mrs Van der Plas' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u428	Well, I've heard both during the debate and now that it's just implementation of existing policies. I'd like to record that one more time. I think it is almost impossible for us to vote against this. So I'm just going to have her put to the vote, because I don't really see what it would do to keep it going. Then maybe we'll get a letter, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u429	Then I'll take a look at...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u430	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u431	Yeah, hold on a second. I will look at the Minister for a moment, because he has now said "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u432	There are additional questions that I cannot deal with. If the House wants an answer to that before the vote, then I can only ask it to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u433	Yes, and Mr Van Haga does not. Then what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u434	I already indicated that this is policy support, so judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u435	Judgment of the Chamber of the motion in part No. 375.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u436	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u437	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because Mrs van der Plas has a point of order. But that is because we have motions in the field of Health, Welfare and Sport answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs. That's crazy, of course. I think we are going to have 20 more motions that are totally out of place in this debate. So I'm kind of looking at how we're dealing with this right now. I do not know whether the motions for resolutions can be considered outside the Rules of Procedure or what they are in the new Rules of Procedure, but it is becoming very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u438	That is not possible, but it is an appeal to the cabinet to make such motions to hold them and not to give any appreciation. I think that's the easiest thing to do. That would therefore apply to the motion on item No. 375.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u439	That's kind of the reverse world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u440	But once again, it is up to the cabinet and the proposers to show some willingness, listening to the comments of my fellow Members. Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga. Are you prepared to hold your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u441	When are we going to vote on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u442	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u443	Is it possible to get a letter by tomorrow? It concerns the implementation of standing policy, so it is actually a bit lead to old iron. This is not a very complicated motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u444	This also applies to a number of other motions tabled in the area of VWS. Maybe I can call on the cabinet. If it is difficult to give an appreciation of the motions that lie on the VWS site, you might be able to see if you can send a letter for tomorrow's votes. If that fails, the motions can be held, so that there is sufficient time to get a proper appreciation of the motions. I'm just looking at the minister who's thinking, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u445	Yes, because you are appealing to me on all kinds of motions that have been tabled, and that is, of course, a little complicated for me. I'm not filing any motions; I'm providing them with advice. I'm now getting a note saying that the motion on the test street must be dissuaded. Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u446	There you go! That's what underlines it. If it is not possible to give an appreciation of the motions on the VWS site, I would ask the authors to hold the motions, so that an appreciation can then be given in writing. I would like to make that appeal, but once again, that is up to the cabinet and the proposers themselves. Mr. Van Kent, at the same time? A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u447	I would suggest that a written appreciation be given of all the motions which have nothing whatsoever to do with this debate and that we skip them here in the assessment, otherwise we will only get hassle, ambiguity and perhaps wrong advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u448	I also appealed to the cabinet and the petitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u449	But we don't need appreciation. As far as we're concerned, our VWS emotions just stand. We don't need an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u450	Mr Van Haga and then we stop for a moment and go to the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u451	Sorry, chairman, but... Look, the motion says, "Wherever possible." It does not have to bite Mrs van der Plas' motion. I also think, of course, that if there is to be massive testing in rural areas, people must have a test site close to them. But if there are several empty test sites in the city, then it is not so crazy that it seems to me to be implementing existing policies to scale those test sites where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u452	I believe that there is a clear signal from the Chamber to get an appreciation of the VWS' motions from the relevant govern ment. I'll ask the petitioners to hold them. Hopefully that will be possible for tomorrow's votes. If we can't do that, we're gonna have to take a closer look. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u453	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 376, which requests that the turnover threshold be reduced. I must advise against this, because I have already indicated this because not only does the truly changed situation not make such a generic aid scheme necessary, but in the present situation such an aid scheme is now harmful. Then the Chamber of mine owed the motion in part No. 374, which calls for a study of the effects of the combination of the abolition of the one and a half meter rule and the introduction of the corona pass. I have already indicated during the debate that you can never cut well whether people avoid catering or cinemas because of the corona pass or because they are afraid to get infected. That is why it is not possible to carry out such an investigation, and that is why I should also like to make the motion in part No. 374. Then I come to the motion on part No. 381 by Mr Aartsen, who asks the government to indicate within one month what the ATE, the scheme for small events, will look like. I have indicated to the Chamber that we are in agreement with congregations and therefore leave the motion to the judgement of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 383 calls on the Government to bring public communication on the VLN scheme, the fixed-cost nightlife scheme, into line with the technical criteria of this scheme. Both in the letter and now in the debate, I indicated why the scheme was designed as it was. As a result, it does not technically achieve the nighthoreca specifically, but, because of the commitments made and the situation in which society is now in place, the government calls on companies to make use of them only if they have to deal with the consequences of the night-closure. But our communication will always be honest about how the scheme works. With that explanation, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u454	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 383. If I understand correctly now, also in view of the debate and the letter, this would mean that there is a behavioural effect and that the expenditure corresponding to this motion may be higher than originally estimated. I have two questions for the Minister. One. Could you please indicate the original amount? And if there is an increase due to a behavioural effect, that is either a problem, as I have heard very nicely from Mr Koolmees, because it would have to be covered, or it would not be a problem, and then I have a question to Mr Koolmees in a moment as to why that would be a problem with the development budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u455	I don't share the assumption that there's a behavioral effect now. I have indicated that the estimated 180 million tonnes, which was a question from Mr Eerdmans, is as precise an estimate as possible on the basis of the scheme as it is now designed. I have also indicated in the debate that our communication is fair. It is a call on companies to make use of it when they are affected by the specific night-closure scheme. But we don't hide how the scheme was designed either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u456	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u457	A brief follow-up question. If so, perhaps many people are looking at this debate; that is my expectation as a new Member of Parliament in this House of Democracy that more is being spent because the estimate of 180 million is wrong, then the conclusion is that more is being spent. Then my question is: why is it that one scheme chooses not to have a problem with that, because I do not hear a stop when the other, namely the training motion, is stopped in the event of an overrun when the budget is exhausted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u458	Mr Koolmees will comment on the educational motivation, but here too... What I mentioned earlier to Mr Eerdmans is still valid. An estimate has been made at best on the basis of the way in which the scheme has been designed. That estimate is 180 million. I have also said in so many words: that is not a hard objective; that is an estimate. So for this arrangement, I'm actually not saying anything new. Then I come to the motion on part No. 384 by Mr Stoffer, who deals with the choice between 1.5 metres away and a corona pass. I indicated in the first term that, in my opinion, there were legal reasons why you can't just decide to impose that choice without amending the law. As Mr Stoffer also asked me, I used the suspension to advise the lawyers on this matter. They confirmed that you will also really have to change the AMvB to give these both options. That comes in addition to the point I mentioned earlier that it is confusing, so on balance, I would advise against the motion in part No. 384. The motion in part No. In fact, 385 of Mr Graus calls for a broader support scheme for entrepreneurs based on audit reports. I must also dissuade them for all the reasons that have been discussed why the government is opposed to broadening the regime. The motion in part No. Mr Graus has asked 386 to continue the arrangements in a very broad way after 1 October. That is not in line with the direction the cabinet is proposing. The motion in part No. 386, I guess I'm deceiving too. The motion in part No. Mr Graus asked the government to put an end to all the obstructive corona measures by the end of the year. In line with the President's call, I would ask you to hold it and discuss it with the Minister of the United States of America in the next debate. I have some idea what the reaction will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u459	I would just like to look at Mr Graus if he is prepared to move on part No. Three hundred and eighty-seven. Mr Graus is prepared to do so, I see. Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u460	Thank you. Then I come to Mr Amhaouch. A first-term question on the resources available for the deficit professions was still open. A commitment of EUR 37.5 million has already been made. That's open right now. The fourth quarter letter on the aid package committed a new amount of 40 million, which will be made available in 2022. Then I shall move on to Mr Amhaouch's motions. The first, the motion in part No. 388, calls on the Government to provide an overview of possible measures for future crises and to use the experience of this crisis for this purpose. I'd like to leave this to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Amhaouch 389 asked the government to make an inventory with industry of the extent of the security of supply problem. During the debate, we exchanged views on how this could be done. So I would also like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 390 by Mr De Jong invites the government to examine, together with financial institutions, how liquidity can become available to companies that need it in the fourth quarter or in the first quarter of next year. I read the motion in such a way that I do this research together with financial institutions, preferably within existing instruments. I shall then inform the House of this in December and leave the motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 391, also from Mr De Jong, asks the government to investigate how entrepreneurs can be helped to end their business without excessive debt. I have already indicated that Mr JenV's colleague is having an investigation into this and that this year will also be your direction, so I will leave the motion in part. 391, please, to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 393 calls on the government to continue monitoring the economic impact of the Corona Access Card. If I may take the motion in such a way that the government must keep its finger on the wrist, also in line with what I said to Mr Eerdmans at the beginning about keeping close contact with the sectors, then I can leave this motion to the House's judgement. Then I come to the motion on part No. 395 by Mrs Van der Plas. The cabinet is invited to discuss specific support with the carnival industry when stopping generic support. The government no longer considers sector-specific support appropriate at this stage. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 396 is about the 2G policy, so I ask you to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u461	Mr Van Houwelingen has indicated that he is not holding up his motions. Then what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u462	It's a speech-exmotion, so it's not addressed to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u463	Oh, sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u464	Of the rest of the motions, I ask that they all be held, because they are not addressed to these three rulers. The motion in part No. 397 is also a speech-expression. I understand that the remaining motions will not be held. Then they'll all be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u465	So the motions on the pieces number. 398 to 400 are not recommended. Thank you. Then we will clean up and give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Van Dijk: when will these talks be held with the companies? I'll do it for the next few weeks. Then I will send a letter to the Chamber with the results. I have said before that I do not deal with individual companies, because I do not think that is a choice. Then there's the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 366 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Kent. With a reference to the debate, I would like to discourage it. There is a shortage of labour and there is no reason for this enlargement. However, we have allocated extra money to combat youth unemployment, education and MBO learning. Moreover, the wish of the motion is no longer legally feasible in time. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 367 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Kent, on poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u467	Mrs Maatoug, do you have a question as the second author on the motion for a resolution on item No. 366?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u468	A very short question, Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer gave an example of examples of municipalities where this leads to problems. Is the Minister interested in that? Then we can send it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u469	I'd love to. Mrs Maatoug knows how to reach me, I know. Very good. Back to the motion in part No. 367 with an incentive to use available resources and to inform the Court of Justice of any additional resources. I would also advise against this. It is important to combat poverty. That is why, in this package too, we have earmarked money for poverty and debt policies. Emergency aid will also be provided for food banks. This amounts to EUR 15 million in 2022. In addition, we naturally pay attention to child poverty, which is rightly called for in the motion. Structurally €85 million was made available for municipal child poverty policies in 2017. Before the summer recess, as acting Secretary of State, I sent the first report to the Chamber. We do not think that additional policies are necessary. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then the motion to part No. 368. Mr Van Kent's first question was raised when the results became available. Unfortunately, this is not in favour of budgetary treatment. These results will only come at the end of 2021 because of the agreements with the VNG on monitoring. I would also advise against this motion. We are talking to the VNG, but of course we are not talking to all the municipalities individually. This poverty approach is monitored and evaluated by the Region Plan. The first intermediate results will be available at the end of this year. Divosa monitors monthly claims for debt relief. So we're definitely holding our finger on the wrist. I don't recommend the motion. I'll take the motions on the items Nos. 377 and 378 together. I'm going to have to disappoint Mr Van Haga a little bit. In the first term, I said I struggled with the question of how to support self-employed and dga's in this kind of exotic circumstances. The motion in part No. 377 suggests that something of financial support can take place with retroactive effect. I must contradict that suggestion, because it is simply unrealistic and not feasible. What I do find interesting is that was also my commitment in the first term or my struggle actually is the part of the motion in part no. 378 by Mrs Maatoug. The final question in the motion is: can you think about and develop options for an improved safety net forzzp'ers, including entrepreneurs? I already referred to the SER recommendation for the MLT, which recommends a permanent Tozo. This is a minimum-level arrangement forzzp'ers and also for dga's, which are now also included in the Tozo. The motion in part No. 377 I'd like to dissuade. The motion in part No. 378 I would like to give judgment to the Chamber, but with a few comments. The reason why the GDP has now been temporarily simplified for the fourth quarter is only to allow municipalities to implement it. It is not a policy choice, it is an implementation choice. We'll keep our finger on the wrist, as promised to Mr Grinwis. We're gonna report on it. I will send the preliminary signals to the Chamber for the budgetary procedure. Bearing in mind the commitment to Mr Van Haga, I would like to describe the dilemmas and choices at the safety net. That is what I am trying to do to meet Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u470	You will understand, of course, that I am very disappointed, because the two motions, the motion in part No. 377 and the motion in part No. 378, they're totally different. One sees onzzp'ers and the other sees on dga's. The dgas have been completely ignored in this entire crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u471	Mr President, that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u472	It is not so much that I want them to be compensated retroactively, but a lot of dga's, not all of course but some of them have fallen apart. This motion calls for an investigation into how they can be financially supported for their consequences. That's not retroactive. If there are poignant cases, I would say: let us examine what these poignant cases are and how we can make something of them. If you want to do that research, that is about the same as the commitment you have already made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u473	Actually, uh... A small proportion of dga's, 5%, were eligible for the NOW, 95% were not. We have seen and recognised that. Then we came up with the Tozo. The Tozo was for the self-employed without staff, thezzp'ers, but was also open to the dga's. With that there was a minimum safety net for entrepreneurs, if you met the conditions. That's what I was thinking about in the future. We can see that, in this kind of crisis situation, public authorities are indeed being called upon as a safety net for income support for entrepreneurs. But there are some problems: the discussion about funding, how do you implement it, what information you have and what income data you have. That is what my struggle was meant to do, also referring to the medium-term ESC opinion. The suggestion in the motion is, can you stick a hole in it now? A: the hole is not there, because we have the Tozo, at least until October 1st. B: towards the future I find it an interesting question. I'd like to put on paper what the dilemmas are, how you can look at them and how you can fix them. That is my commitment to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u474	I think that the difference between the Tozo and the damage that dga's have suffered because they have not been included in the NOW is, in some cases, so painful that something needs to be done. As far as I am concerned, you can read this motion as you say, but I think it is easy to get over it. The Tozo is really shabby when you consider that a lot of employees are generously paid and haven't had to do anything, while the dga has taken all the risks and hasn't gotten anything. In 5% of cases, yes, but not the rest, nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u475	That's right. We have recognised that there is no safety net for self-employed people without staff and dga's. That's why we came up with the Tozo. Of course, apart from the assistance, but the assistance is with capabilities and partner tests. That has indeed been the safety net for entrepreneurs. I stand by my assessment of the motion in part No. 377, but the motion in part No. 378 I'm judging Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 379 by Mrs Maatoug on the Netherlands is learning through. I agree with her that development advice is an important and valuable instrument. That is why I have put it into the accompanying policy of the STEP scheme, which will run from 1 January. This motion requires the opening of an additional period and 14 million in budget. With reference to the debate, I would like to discourage the motion. I know that Mrs Maatoug is about to say: but Mr Blok has just taken an open-ended arrangement with budgetary risk. That's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u476	We're gonna hear it. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u477	Well, it's nice that the Minister already knows what I'm gonna ask, but then I'm gonna surprise him. My question is why it was not chosen to make this an open-ended arrangement. I notice that all regulations for people... I don't want to draw a conclusion briefly, but I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u478	The honest answer is that estimates for NOW, Tozo and TVL are surrounded with great uncertainty. We have to estimate three months in advance on the basis of our estimate of how many companies are going to use it. If you're going to budget that, so to speak, you're going to have to shut down the scheme by mid-quarter, resulting in bankruptcies and layoffs. We don't want that. Moreover, the estimates of the NOW have been adjusted downwards several times. The latest estimate has also been revised downwards by EUR 750 million. So we spent less money on it than we originally thought. This is different for training schemes. That's a budget that you make available, that people can sign up for, and that they'll be sure to get the money in advance. The nature of the scheme is thus different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u479	Mrs Maatoug, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u480	Really last but not least, Mr. Chairman. But then I also notice that you're stopping here at some point. As the Minister indicated in the reply, the scheme was overwritten. So there were more people than expected who wanted to use it. If we could have opened up the scheme, with more budget or as an open-ended scheme, I think the effect would have been that more people would have used it, for example for 20,000 training courses, which we can pay by 14 million. That is what we really need in this tight labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u481	With that difference that people sign up for a subsidy scheme and then get a decision on how much money they receive for it. That's really different from the NOW or the TVL scheme. In doing so, the companies pay the wages and cannot be faced halfway with: do half. That's a really big difference. This gives advance assurance. A nice budget technique; I love it. The motion in part No. 392 is signed by about 120 to 130 seats. I'd like to dissuade this one from being ballistic, but I'm not. I'll give the motion judgment room. It's policy support. One comment: it is not just about small employers. Some small employers have less administrative burdens and can apply for a statement with a financial advisor. It is more risk-oriented, so to companies that, for example, are difficult to reach or have never responded to e-mails. Against that background, I'd like to give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u482	Then we will clean up briefly again and, finally, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u483	Thank you, Mr President. I still owe Mr Van Kent an answer. He asked when the parameters can be adjusted for the Vpb. That is until 1 December, but on 11 November there is already a vote in the Lower House on the Tax Plan. In fact I was already in the direction of mid-November. Which brings me to the motions that remain. The motion in part No. 369 by Mr Van Kent asks the cabinet to send a proposal for an increase in corporate tax. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The cabinet doesn't intend to. In the debate, I have already explained why. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan asked the government to apply a separate rate of recovery and standard rate to corona debts vis-à-vis other tax debts. I indicated in the debate that we think it would be wise for interest rates to rise slowly, so that there is an incentive for people to pay off. The 4% will only apply from January 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u484	What is your appreciation of the motion in part No. 371?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u485	Dissuade. Yeah, sorry. The motion in part No. 373 requests that VAT on mouth caps and tests be maintained at 0% by 2022. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The zero rate was introduced at the time, partly by my efforts and those of the Chamber. That was in a situation where this stuff was much more expensive and scarce and had to be used much wider than it is now. We see no reason to go through with this. That brings me to the motion in part No. 382, by Mr Aartsen. That motion I give Chamber judgment, but it does require some explanation. In two areas, the cabinet identifies the debt problem. In the broad sense, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is a trigger. He already looks at the possibilities in the areas of legal and extra-legal debt relief and debt restructuring. In the debate, I have already explained quite extensively what I intend to do about tax debts. I have also told Mr Aartsen and the Chamber that I will send a letter on this matter for the General Financial Reviews, so the Chamber will be informed in the short term and Mr Aartsen will be able to see if that corresponds to what he means by an action plan. So the motion gets judgment, Chamber. Finally, Mrs van der Plas' motion. In this form, I advise against the motion because it is linked to the extension of the aid measures. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u486	It's about the motion in part No. 394.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u487	That's the motion in part No. 394. I advise the motion in this form, but I will explain why I would like to add something. We announced this morning that the Tax Administration has come up with the following policy decision. If, after October 2022, if we no longer have a generic delay for corona debt, entrepreneurs are still in trouble, there is still a possibility for postponement, under strict conditions. Those are the old conditions we used to have. For example, you have to be able to prove that you are in trouble because of corona et cetera. That is what we are doing for a short time. This is very close to the period mentioned by Mrs Van der Plas in her motion, namely until the end of January 2022. So until the end of January 2022 there is that possibility. In the spirit, therefore, we are doing about what is requested in the motion, but I am not going to extend the generic postponement policy. 'Cause if you don't, there's never gonna be an end to it. And at some point, debts have to be paid. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u488	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-29-tweedekamer-11.u489	Before the vote, there will be an appreciation of Mr Graus's motion. The other motions in the area of VWS are not stopped and have been dissuaded. We're going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. I would like to thank the directors in trade union K for their comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the viewers at home and, of course, the staff and support and the messengers.
