ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35874, Amendment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 in connection with the settlement of the requirement for the adoption by law of a royal decree extending the provisions of Article VIII, third paragraph, of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, and the debate on the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers. I try to do it very briefly and point-by-point. My question about a possible new standard has been misunderstood by the Minister, or I did not put it right. I did not ask whether the solution of delegation under the requirement of approval by law could now become the new standard, but whether that could apply to the starting point of the Janssen motion. If temporary laws restrict the fundamental rights of citizens, the States-General must have decisive control over their extension. We can then have a discussion about the modality in which that happens, whether it is this solution or another one. So my question was about that starting point. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. Together with other parties I have asked about the future-proofing of the Wpg with a view to future pandemics. The Minister replied that he has not yet done so, referring to the ongoing evaluations on which he will inform us by letter in September. Can I fill it out in such a way that the Minister informs us about these evaluations, where possible, about the timetable foreseen for implementing conclusions and recommendations? Could he perhaps make that more concrete in the letter we were promised before Christmas? My group has some mixed feelings about the Minister's reflection over the last few weeks. The minister started with a misplaced joke about a rush on the candidates lists for the Lower House, because the First Chamber asks for a reflection. That was a false start. The First Chamber is called the chambre de réflexion for a reason. Reflecting and asking for reflection is part of our core tasks. By denying that, at least the Minister shows that he has something to learn at this point. Fortunately, the Minister is going to reflect afterwards and admits clearly that the cabinet has made errors of assessment in the past period. The opening of everything with tests for access was this time the opposite of too little, too late, namely too early and too large-scale. It is a pity, however, that the Minister is still trying to make everyone ultimately responsible for the decisions that really lie primarily with the cabinet. Yes, the intended relaxations were sent to the Lower House and the Upper Chamber in advance. These were also discussed in the House of Representatives. But that does not relieve the government of having full responsibility, apart from the impossibility for both Chambers to really understand every week all the details of all the documents sent. Fortunately, the Minister no longer blames young people. Most young people did what they were allowed to do and were called upon to do by the optimistic one-liners of the government. It's nice that at least that was corrected. Mr. Chairman. I have one comment to make on the motion tabled by Mr Otten. We see it as our task to reflect and learn from it for the future. That process isn't over. That's what we're gonna do. We will continue to discuss this with the government. The political judgement on the policy-making of the cabinet in the past period, we find primarily a task that belongs to the Lower House, though. The reflection does not belong there, but the making of the political judgment does. A debate will take place there tomorrow. We'll see what happens there. But at least we will not support the motion by the Otten Group in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u5	Thank you, Mr President. First, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given. Before I go into that further, I would like to come back to the first term of last night. I've been thinking about that for a while, and I have to say that I was uncomfortable at the time. I would like to distance myself from what has been said about the person of the Minister and the Prime Minister. This morning, too, the courtesy, as you call it, was discussed. I wish to express the wish that we, as a Chamber, retain our dignity. Having said that, I come to the Minister's answers to the questions we have asked. The answers on how the control is divided between both the Second and the First Chambers have certainly been very enlightening. These answers certainly helped us to finalise this legislative proposal later today. As a whole, the Minister has referred to the word "without delay" as an important word. I would also have liked to have applied the word 'without delay' to the outstanding and therefore unanswered questions raised by our group on the lower limit; I am sorry to bring that up again. I understand very well that it is difficult to be very ready about this now. But, yes, the questions that are still open must be answered immediately and preferably. The motion will also have to be carried out, so I would like to have a response from the Minister to that process and, of course, to the content. Then we have the motion on the care plan. The questions were answered by the Minister in the sense that the LCPS, the ROAZ and all the agencies that managed the crisis in recent months still exist and can be in the air at any moment or again. However, the motion is also about keeping the care staff and the care organisations as such in the air, so to speak. I have already mentioned PTSS myself, which occurs with many nurses, but it is also about keeping the profession interesting and ensuring that the influx stays in order in the coming years, and that the outflow does not increase. There are quite a few caregivers who take early retirement now that they've had this tax. And that's what the care plan is really about, to keep the care in the air for the next few years. So I would also like a statement from the Minister on these elements. Finally. Legislation on the A status of covid has been discussed. Well, the bill is in committee for procedure this afternoon, so I don't want to go into that discussion right now. And with that, I'd like to end my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u6	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we would like to thank the Minister for answering the various questions, which provided further clarification on the legislative proposal before us. The CDA Group has noted with appreciation that the Minister shares our view that there should be an end to the temporality of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. And with the Minister's promise that the current crisis will be dealt with in the Wpg, before Christmas, we will be able to deal with it. One more question, of course: can the Minister promise us that this processing will occur in the Chambers before the possible extension will be discussed on 1 December? Questions are open, I've always learned. I'm saying this given some body language from our minister, Mr. Chairman. After the Minister's explanation, we understand that the approach to future pandemics will take place at a later stage. To this end, we would like to await an overview of the evaluations in the September letter. It goes without saying that the CDA Group considers it important for the Minister to make it clear in that letter when the further elaboration of legislation and regulations for possible future pandemics is to be expected. We would therefore like to see clarity about the legislative instruments to be used and the parliamentary involvement in this matter. Similarly, as pointed out in my first contribution, we would like to draw attention to the definition of 'vulnerable persons'. We believe that this definition of vulnerable people should be extended, including those who are still waiting for regular care, and those who have unfortunately become psychologically vulnerable as a result of the various measures. We call on the Minister to give these groups a more explicit and visible position in the policy balance. With regard to Mr Otten's motion, we would like to make a counter-sound. Working for a year and a half to combat a crisis that our society has never experienced is a challenge of unprecedented magnitude. And that there are good results, such as, for example, the tremendous growth of vaccinations, but also that occasionally there is a misconception and a misjudgement, that happens, but that is clearly no reason for us to table such a motion. It goes without saying that we will not support it, but we do not believe it to be in line with the results achieved so far. Finally, Mr President, I would like to give all of us, despite the growth of the infections, a good holiday, and some rest and time for reflection. And that certainly applies to the minister and his people, and the people who work in the care sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I did get the impression from time to time that the Minister was a little off the hook in some statements about the development of measures and the fight against the epidemic. At one point we are definitely still in the epidemic, and anyone who dares to deny it has nothing to do with it. But the Minister himself says that we are now in the transitional phase. He is also continuing on these points, so it remains really unclear what direction we are going in, including with regard to future measures. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, the Minister also stated that we can expect the whole alphabet of variants, alpha, delta, etc. Before we get to epsilon and zèta, et cetera, I want to know from the Minister what the future holds. We do not know exactly yet, of course, but if the Minister really takes his own policy, his own strategy and also his own vaccination strategy seriously, this does not have to be a problem either, because it should protect society sufficiently, at least in the long term. Instead, however, the Minister preaches an extension of the measures over and over again. Now things are even laid down in the Wpg, with different indicators over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u10	I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem if he is aware that a pandemic is a global matter. You're acting like we're an island. If everyone here is vaccinated and we all stay inside, that way we could control the pandemic. I know that your party is not in favour of people coming here, but that means that we have nowhere to go and we all have to stay inside. But that's not reality, Mr. Van Hattem. You ask all kinds of things. Where's it going? Where's it going? I don't know, but do you have the virus in hand? I certainly don't, and I don't think this minister does either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u11	That's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u12	I can answer that. I'm describing the Minister's vaccination strategy. He's just bettin' on that high vaccination rate. That should be the way out of the crisis. This is how it is deposited from the cabinet. I agree with you that, of course, it depends on a lot of factors. But that is why we have to look in our own country at what is really at stake, how serious the crisis is. That is why I tabled this motion on these indicators last year. So you can look at the hospital admissions. A motion was also adopted in the Lower House in which it was clearly stated that the number of hospitalisations should be the leading indicator in order to determine this. But we now find that it is always based on other reasons why measures should remain in force. Those are serious, freedom-limiting measures. There must be a legal basis for this. If it happens in the way Mrs De Bruijn calls it, we can be stuck in those measures forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u13	Thank you. Mrs. De Bruijn, a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u14	Yes, that is true, unfortunately, because we are dealing with so many uncertain factors that it is not really in indicators. You may want an arithmetical approach to the crisis, but I do not think that is the reality. So my question is every time: what are you looking for? Where do you want to go? Do you really think that if everything is expressed in figures, we can manage the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u15	Thank you. Shortly, Mr. Van Hattem, and then you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u16	I am not so much concerned with the figures. The point is that there is a clear indicator that says that the pressure on care is not too high. If this pressure on care is not too high, then we do not need all the coercive measures that are being continued or at least kept under control. At least you can say we've got the case under control. You need indicators to establish that, otherwise the government's arbitrariness is. Then it can still be said: we need a measure, because there is another risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u17	Thank you. No, I'm really moving on to Mr Van Hattem's term. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u18	That was also the point where I left off. By constantly changing direction with different indicators, with new variants that are not even known yet but may ever appear, it is not dancing with Janssen, as the minister calls it, but the tango with Hugo, a dance that is constantly being abandoned with new measures and that keeps Dutch society in its grip, with all the consequences of that. In short, on the basis of which concrete indicators does the cabinet really think it can stop the restrictions on freedom? On the basis of which indicator can we implement the bill and use the approval law to vote the measures? Then the cabinet can say 'well, then it is done with this' and we will not get another package of measures thrown over the fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u19	I would like to come back to the paragraph that Mr Van Hattem said earlier. What measures do you think should be taken to prevent these infections? Unfortunately, we are always talking about restrictions on freedom, and I fully agree with you. Only you're gonna have to do something to make sure that more people don't get sick and end up in a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u20	In any case, not those restrictions on freedom, because they have never really proved to be effective. Of the 1.5 meters outside, closing terraces at certain times and such is all unclear whether it has had any effect, let alone that maleized curfew. But at least we have to invest in care, make sure care is up to standard. If there is then a crisis that can also be another disease or a disaster that will affect us, at least there must be no shortage of beds in the care or ic capacity, because that is why...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u21	Thank you. Mrs. Prince, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u22	I do have one more question, Mr. Chairman. If the measures had not worked... We note that the measures have been abandoned in a short period of time. The infections are now rising, something we're all worried about. Isn't that proof that the measures are working? Why else would we come to these infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u23	This is actually kind of... I'd almost call it cognitive dissonance. They simply want to see these infections as the guiding principle for the continuation of the crisis. But of course, these infections depend on a lot of factors, such as the number of people being tested, the specific groups being tested. I told you, the number isn't always the best indicator to say there's a big problem. It's really about the pressure on care and the number of hospitalizations. The number of hospital admissions is currently stable low. The number of ic-recordings is even falling. The number of infections doesn't always mean anything, so there's just a very wrong interpretation. So you shouldn't collectively go after that image that the number of infections is the problem. No, you need to peel that off to the level where it's clear what the problem is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u25	...and that's the pressure on care. And we need to look at that and we need to invest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I see you've provoked a lot of interruptions. I suggest that we give one question to every interrupter, otherwise we will be out of the program this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u27	I am listening with increasing amazement to colleague Van Hattem. Didn't we see last year that there was a huge peak of infections and also a huge peak in the healthcare question? Then strict measures were taken and that peak decreased again. Perhaps you still have doubts about everything that happened in between, but we now see that the measures are being released and that the infections are increasing again. From a scientific point of view, I can only conclude that these matters are related and that this connection has been scientifically proven. I should like to make that observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u28	That question had already been asked by one of your predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u29	And I'll finish with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u30	Oh, thank you. That's not a question. Mr. Van Hattem, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u31	It is assumed that this is the cause, but it seems that Mr Van der Voort also has little confidence in his own vaccination strategy, because that has apparently also been a factor which should have reduced the number over the past year. If you do not include that in the policy, you are making a wrong comparison, at least from your own point of view. Good. Then there is the question of when, from the cabinet's point of view, a factor can finally be identified as to when we can stop these restrictions of freedom. Although the Minister cannot state exactly what the epidemiological threshold is in order to determine it, can he indicate how that epidemiological threshold will be determined, by whom and on what factors? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Again my appeal: invest in the care rather than playing the vaccination classroom for the whole world. Put that money in our own country, in our own care, in our own Ic beds, because that's where it's really needed. It is also important that the catching-up operations can now start fairly quickly, because far too many people are waiting too long for surgery in, for example, heart disease, cancer or other terrible diseases; for those people there is too much waiting every day. Can the Minister indicate how many people have become the victims of longer waiting for illness or other cases because of these delayed interventions? Is there a clear picture of that too? Finally, Mr President. The Minister calls on young people and even children to vaccinate. We see today that for example Lareb reports a serious side effect of vaccinations. Does the Minister also give a fair picture of both the vaccination strategy and the possible side effects that can occur so that everyone can make their own, free assessment? Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u33	Mr President, thank you. I shall only make two comments on the topical and urgent debate and leave the rest to my colleague, Mr Hijink, who will undoubtedly have further questions to the Minister in this Chamber tomorrow. With regard to the contradiction and the counterpower, the Minister says: we have a lot of organisations that talk with us and give us information. But the "groupthink" syndrome that is then lurking is that as you exchange information with the same group for a long time, the circle outside of which you have to search for contradiction is also getting bigger. So that is a risk that is quite naturally lurking when a fixed group is talking to each other for a longer period of time. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Then about the models. I have spoken a long time about the Loesje model: try to think of it as crazy. In fact, no consideration based on models would be complete without a Loesje model, such as: try to think of it as crazy. When we talk about decisions to be taken, the fixed question should be: where is the Loesje model? That can be very weird and crazy, but we run into these extremes again and again. Mr President, on the legislative proposal. It is good that the legislative proposal is now before us and that, even before the recess, the relations that we believe should apply in decision-making on far-reaching interventions in privacy and fundamental rights are regulated in terms of control. It is good that the ministers have come up with this proposal. It is also a good thing that we can now establish this with each other. Mrs De Boer also asked: shouldn't that be the norm? It is also good to note that this motion was about more than just courtesy, as the Minister also said. That motion was also about the content. I say it explicitly and I say it in an interruption: both chambers can now say 'yes' and not just 'no'. It is precisely on the content that they can decide with each other. That is where the power lies for that decision. We are now going on the path to adjust the Wpg. That's good, too. You could say: shouldn't we have done that already after the Mexican flu? But, yeah, maybe it wasn't serious enough to pick it up like that. At least this is a clear signal. I think it's a good thing this happened. It is also a good thing that this motion was about more than just controlling the content. It was also a mark that Parliament was made up of two Chambers, both of which had to be involved in times of crisis. That has happened now, not only in word, but also in action. I therefore hope that this will continue. That's what I said in the first term. It's good how this happened. I'm happy about that. We therefore wholeheartedly support it. But please, let this be no exception. Let us continue with each other in these relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Karakus of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u35	Mr. Chairman. There are a few points I would like to make in connection with yesterday's debate. It starts with the determining control. I also said yesterday that we are delighted that these motions have been translated and are going to be enshrined in the law. The Minister has indicated that the government has committed itself to this. We really appreciate you doing that. Keep that up, I'd say. The motions of the First Chamber are very important. Then there's the temporary law measures. I also said yesterday that it is not normal and sustainable for heavy measures to be based on temporary legislation. I am also pleased that the Minister... I wanted to say 'the alderman', but that was in your previous life, Minister... has promised that the Wpg will become future-proof. Of course, we're curious about how that goes. You promised to submit this as a proposal in December. Now I can put the question as to whether this can not be done sooner and whether the frameworks cannot be sent to the First Chamber sooner, but I believe you when you say that this cannot be done sooner, because we still have some homework to do. I believe you in that. But we see this as a first step towards permanent legislation. That's what we're waiting for. So we're also curious what you mean by that. I hope you can give me a look at December. What course are you going to take and what procedure are you going to use? I've come to enforceability and enforcement. Let us not go into examples, because in contrast to the example of the quarantine obligation you mentioned, I can give you many examples where it is not properly enforced. But our key point is: give it a place in the plan of action. Make sure we think about it carefully, when you put in place measures, how you're going to maintain it and whether it's enforceable. I'd like it to have a place in the plan of action next time. You indicate: we have looked at the past. That is indeed a point of interest. That's what you said in your reflection. We are curious whether that will get a place in the plan of approach and how carefully that will be decorated. What we also welcome is your recognition of international solidarity. Because we believe that everyone in this world has a right to a vaccine, wherever you live. The situation there determines whether someone has access to a vaccine or not, whether you are left to a healthcare system that is not functioning or that you are given help to at least have the right to a vaccine. That is our starting point. It is not only how we look at the world, but it is also in our own interests. It is also preventive, because the more we tackle the source, the lower the risk of getting the mutations here in the Netherlands. So we appreciate the government's commitment on that point, but we do agree and also encourage it to do something extra where it can still be done in the near future. I also put a question on the European Council. An evaluation will take place soon at European level. Could the issue of how the European Union deals with international solidarity and what they are going to do or have done get a place in the evaluation? I would like a commitment from the Minister that he will bring that point to the EU Council. Thank you. For the remains, we wish the Minister and the Government much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. I now give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u37	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the officials for their hard work, also in answering the questions. We sometimes say that the virus does not go on vacation, but I hope that the Minister will go on vacation, because that is really necessary for humans. Mr. Chairman. The CDA and the Christian Union have asked the Minister to come forward with a framework law, a more permanent legal structure before 1 December. We understand that this question may have been a little too much. We thank the Minister for the commitment that he would like to come forward with a December letter, in which he takes up this legislation. Thank you for that. There are a few points I would like to make. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can promise that in that December letter he will also discuss the structure of the future law. Will that be an on/off mechanism, will that be suspended or do I know what? How's that gonna work? Two. I would like to endorse what Mr Janssen said and his interruption to me. Can the Minister state or promise that even if we come to a more permanent legal structure, there will be decisive control over both chambers when it comes to restricting fundamental rights? Finally. We also think it is important that the Minister should have sufficient room for action in the event of a pandemic to act quickly and vigorously. Mr. Chairman. We have no further questions about the law. I will also give my group a positive opinion on voting. With regard to topical and urgent subjects of major importance, I have no further questions. I would like to leave that to our group in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. One more point, though. Our group also looked back at last night's debate and this morning's debate. We have difficulty in saying that Mr Otten, even in his first term, played more on the man than on the ball. That's not part of this room. And even if you can't find the ball, you don't play the man, but you wait until you find the ball. Mr. Chairman. In industry, we often used the peer analysis: 20% of cases versus 80%. What do we see here? 20% of the members commit 80% of the interruptions. As a result, if the time is limited, the Members who want to interrupt will have difficulty with that, because they will only have one interruption. I think it is important that we in the Chamber show more self-control in this respect, in the number of interruptions. Mr. Chairman. That leaves me with the whole cabinet to thank for all his work. I hope the whole cabinet really is going on vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start by apologizing to those present for my absence this morning. I had an appointment that absolutely couldn't be resisted. That's not my habit. If you say anything, I think you should be there for the answer. I have listened to everything, except for 15 minutes, and my group was, of course, represented here. That's what I wanted to say. We supported the submission of the Otten motion in principle. We believe that any motion should be able to be tabled, after which the Chamber can choose how it wishes to vote. In substance, we do not agree with it at all; I would like to say this for a moment. We do not agree with both the form, the way and the content. Anyway, the filing of a motion in itself must of course be possible. In terms of content, I liked the contribution of Senator De Boer van GroenLinks, about the reflection, which also left a lot to be desired in the answer. We are very pleased with the legislative proposal before us, in which the extension of the restriction of fundamental rights can also be judged in this Chamber. Because that is what is happening here, and I say that with due seriousness. Fundamental rights are being restricted. In view of the persistence of the measures, we look forward to the September letter. We're really expecting an end to the yo-yo. The majority of the Dutch have shown real understanding and solidarity, but that understanding and solidarity must not be put to the test. In short, those in the field who have to celebrate and attract the reins on behalf of the cabinet should be supported by the ministers concerned. On behalf of our group, I would like to give the cabinet and this minister a task of réflexion, as we are supposed to do here. A little reflection and self-reflection in the recess: don't cheer too early, don't joke too jovially and don't always point to others or to their own successful performances. Only if there is a consistent, logical and balanced policy, however strict it may be... I understand that, of course, depends on the virus and its mutants. Only if the Dutch and the enforcers know what they are up to and that can also be explained logically, in short, only when the enforcement is in order again and the end of the pandemic is in sight, can there again be room for ministerial joy, which we, of course, give the minister and the cabinet more than we can, but only if we can. Mr President, we look forward to that day. Then everyone in this house, the staff and the cabinet remains to wish me a very nice recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u40	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u41	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Minister has here laid down the new law governing the control of this Chamber. I would like to thank the Minister and the officials for all the work they have done. It is also a good thing that he has already promised in his reply that, before a new KB would be struck, he will first submit in a letter to the House of Representatives, of course, but also to the First Chamber, measures that will be considered so that the First Chamber can respond in good time. We welcome that commitment. The Minister said this morning that the next ministerial council is in mid-August. Our question is, in fact, whether there could be an earlier cabinet council if the situation gets worse. I say this because I remember that the cabinet went on a holiday last summer, and we had to say afterwards that perhaps that was not the most sensible thing. What does the cabinet learn from this, looking forward now? I say right away that I wish the entire cabinet, especially this minister and other ministers who are most involved in the covid dossier, a really good and as carefree a holiday as possible. But as said before: the virus does not go on holiday and can strike much harder than we sometimes think. So alertness is imperative. Mr. Chairman. What is the Minister's view of the risk that other countries, perhaps already in the coming days, will colour our country in deep red, which would mean that Dutch people would no longer be able to go on vacation? How does the Minister view that risk? And should that happen unexpectedly in some countries, is good information given in good time? Mr. Chairman. Major events will take place in the coming period. Would the cabinet, if the contagions were to rise in such a way that further measures would be needed, which would be timely and thus long in advance, given the long preparation time of major events? Our group continues to consider the 1.5 metres of great importance and also the voluntary use of mouth caps in indoor areas such as shops. It indicates that covid is still with us. It also has a high signal value. Our perception, and I think of many others, is that the image is reinforced that covid is over if we put those mouth caps away too quickly. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Once again, I wish the Minister, the whole cabinet, the officials and all the colleagues in this Chamber a good recess after this afternoon's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions and the way in which he has openly reflected on the developments over the past two weeks. I wish him a great deal of wisdom in dealing with these worrying new developments once again. Good luck! Mr. Chairman. We fit the necessary respect for all those in the front line of this crisis, including our ministers, their advisers and their staff. We consider the Otten motion to be inappropriate and disrespectful of the enormous task that rests on this minister. It goes without saying that we will vote against this motion. Then there's the bill. In my group's view, the way in which this law gives Parliament decisive control in extending the Temporary Law measures is too crude an instrument. I also followed with interest Mr Nicolaï's input, in which he put forward an interesting proposal to alleviate the all-or-nothing clause by converting the clause of decay into an opportunity to suspend the law. However, this requires a change of law. Our preference is to take this approach into account in the proposed evaluation of the Wpg and, if possible, to apply it in article-by-article, for example, to articles that monitor the restriction of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u44	I was mentioned for a moment and I heard the word "respect." You disrespected my motion. How is it with your respect for the Minister, who, with his policy mistakes within two weeks, has ensured that one in four in the 18-24 age group is now infected with the coronavirus.................................................................................................................................................................................... It's never been this high, not even in the peak last year. What is your respect for someone who manages to accomplish that in two weeks? Then I say: respect, hat off; that has never been shown anywhere. How does Mrs. De Bruijn see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u45	Again, I respect people who are doing their stinking best to control this crisis. I'm sorry, the words may be a little unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u46	On the edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u47	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u48	On the edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u49	On the edge, okay. They do that to control this crisis, with all the ups and downs, all the uncertainties, all the things that go well and all the things that go wrong. I have no respect for parliamentarians who call officials by name, address them and treat them disrespectfully. Nor have I had any respect for the sidewalk calling out how things should have been different and not come up with proposals themselves. We also discussed it with you yesterday in the debate. You are directly blaming the Minister, including in your motion, for having blamed him for the fact that 10 000 young people have suddenly been infected. I have indicated that with the way you or your group make choices about how this crisis should be managed, all those young people, including all the vulnerable, would be infected last year, because you did not want any action. Okay, after a lot of questions, the curfew finally came out, of which I also wonder whether the young people, which you are now standing up for, were satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u50	There is no question that we are against any measure. That is what you were trying to do yesterday, Mrs De Bruijn, President-in-Office of the Council. There is no question of that, but important errors of assessment have always been made here. I will repeat once again the solution we have given. If the pilot loses it in the cockpit, you're gonna have to put someone else in that chair. That's the first thing you do. Before you come up with all kinds of new solutions, you're gonna keep the plane flying with someone who can. So our solution is to start with a healthcare professional, someone like Marcel Levi or someone else, a doctor who understands what he's doing, who doesn't stare blindly at models and who also trusts the population. That's our solution. We do have a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u51	Mr. Otten then apparently assumes that we have a plane that is functioning and capable of flying at the moment, but it is a plane that is basically just having all kinds of defects. Maybe even the best pilot can't keep him in the air. It is very unfortunate to say that, but that is the situation we are looking at. Then you just have to be prepared to say, as the Minister has done today, that we have indeed made errors of judgment on a number of matters; we are going to learn from that and we have taken immediate action. I think that's the only way you can do that, and also the only way that pilot can prevent any imminent disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u52	I have an order proposal. I just told Mr Otten in my second term that I think it is wrong for one of our parliamentarians to play on the man and not on the ball. You can't even play the man if you don't find the ball. Mr Otten is doing that again. Mr President, I do not think that is possible in this Chamber. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs De Bruijn, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u54	Mr. Chairman. My last piece. Mr Janssen points out that the law now before us is not intended to say no, but by saying yes, Parliament confirms the extension of the Temporary Law measures. But it is precisely Mr Janssen and his party who know how tempting it can be to vote against. My group is therefore less confident. The relapse option of the current Wpg, in that form, we find undesirable. The VVD Group will therefore vote against the Amendment Bill Temporary Measures Act. I challenged Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u55	Are you almost at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u56	I was already at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u57	Will you finish this? Then we will have Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u58	I was at the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u59	Your speech has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u61	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u62	I think it is a very silly argument that is being used now. It does not apply at all to this bill, if you use it as an excuse to vote against this bill. I would say: look at how many proposals we have voted for and look at how many municipalities and how many provinces we have managed and where we have managed to achieve positive things everywhere. You put up an image following a SP-election slogan from decades ago: vote SP, vote against, which worked very well then, I must say. I would say: look at behavior and not just at these kind of simple words, because I find this very faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u63	I challenged you, Mr. Janssen, that's right, and you're also responding, but it's not disrespectful, to use that word for a moment. We are taking into account the option of creating opportunities that will actually result in voting against it. You have also seen that a large number of political groups in the House of Representatives, but not a parliamentary majority, voted against the legislative proposal on granting the A status that we are going to deal with later, because they want to keep away from the measures. It is in that perspective, but I certainly do not expect your party to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u64	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u65	I'd really like to stick to the facts. Let's just review this bill and not compare apples to pears. If you have anything against this bill, you will come up with substantive arguments. Apparently, you want to vote against it. You did the same in the House of Representatives. That is your consideration and other parties can vote in favour. This is also the case with other proposals. That's the way democracy works. Sometimes you get right and sometimes you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u66	That's right. You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u67	I did not intend to respond, but I will do so in the light of Mrs De Bruijn's last remark. I think it is very serious that Mrs De Bruijn seems to say that she wants to rule out the risk of Parliament voting against such a proposal. In fact, she says that she does not want parliamentary control on such an important issue as the restriction of fundamental rights. It's okay, your party may find that, but I find that disturbing. In any case, I would like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u68	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u69	I don't know if this is a question. We have, of course, voted in favour of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. That's where the restrictions are. We also voted in favour of the Wpg and there are those restrictions. Right now, you see that we're actually falling back on the Wpg when there's uncertainty about that extension. Again, our analysis is that you fall back on that Wpg and that there is therefore no parliamentary involvement anymore. That is our analysis, which is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u70	But that means that you have no confidence in Parliament's judgment to make this assessment when you assess that extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u71	It may not be directly trusting in Parliament, but we have seen over the past two weeks how a certain vote can arise where we all say that we no longer need it, that we can get rid of it, and that it can be different one or two weeks later. Then you don't have a relapse option anymore, but you might see that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u72	Looks like it. Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also had a few words to say to Mrs De Bruijn, but I am going to take advantage of the expensive time I get in this period. I think Mrs De Bruijn is overlooking one thing. It's not about people wanting to vote against a law, no, no, no. The situation is that the government wants to extend certain powers and that a majority of one of the Chambers is opposed and then forced to vote against, because it is yes or no, as Mrs De Bruijn herself said. If you include parliamentary involvement, you should actually say that it is a law and that it must be amended every time by a law, and then amendments can be tabled when the law is amended and then the House of Representatives and the First Chamber can debate it. That's the spirit. But we have been maneuvered by the pandemic and the haste there was in a situation with a law that does not make parliament decide on the ins and outs of how we proceed, but the government can do so with a royal decision. That's where the big mistake is. We're gonna fix that mistake a little bit now. If it's any trouble, the Minister has promised to take another look at it. We're gonna do it in a good way. Because if we are forced to say no to a law that may contain things that we really would like to have, then there is a gap because all the powers are in order. That would be a shame. I come to my speech to the Minister. I also regret that the Minister says: I'm going to look at it, but I'm not gonna rush it; it's gonna happen. There may be a situation where, for example, this Chamber is forced to vote against because there is something in that extension that we do not agree with. If there is a gap, then I think that is the responsibility of the government, because the government did not arrange in good time for such a gap to be avoided. I'd like to have said that. I'll find out how the Minister reacts to that. A second point. Mr Van Hattem has raised a number of points here and provoked many reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u74	Just a brief word on the previous point. Mr Nicolaï has just said that it is the Minister's fault if he has not arranged it. But that is a change to the law that is now before us. This will first have to be decided by both the Second and the First Chambers. The first question then is whether the Second and First Chambers want that change at all. Mr Nicolaï agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u75	Of course I agree. Mr Nicolaï is not the legislator, nor is the minister. We can still make a deal, but that is not enough either. Mr. Chairman. I come to my next point. Mr Van Hattem has put forward a number of points on which many of my fellow senators have attacked him. I would like to come back to one point on which I believe we have also supported a motion in the Chamber. Mr Van Hattem has been one of the few and first senators to say: if you are going to see what tools you are going to turn on in the toolbox, that should not be arbitrary, especially when it comes to fundamental rights. He says: you should develop indicators for that. The government has still not provided a clear framework for these indicators. But there is a second point concerning the application of powers. The powers are set out in the relevant chapter of the law. It is also clear in Article 58b: 'This chapter applies to the fight against the epidemic'. So one question that precedes the question of indicators for the application of the special powers is: when is there an epidemic situation? I believe that we, as the Chamber of Government and the Minister, can demand that this be clarified. I would like to ask the Minister once again whether he can promise that an indication of the criteria used for this can already be given in the September letter. Then I come to vaccination. In the context of the law on corona admissions, we have already said: what does the vaccination say? If you've been vaccinated, you can still hand it over. I remember the Minister saying when he answered the questions at the time: that is still under investigation. In the meantime, I heard the Minister say today, and he emphasized that: no, if you have been vaccinated, you can still transfer covid. If that's the case, there's one thing I don't understand. Once I've been vaccinated twice, I have a QR code and I can go in anywhere. But how can you create an access card based on data that the minister here says: the chance that you still infected people is real? I would like to get a clear answer from the Minister on that one more time. Then we talked about enforcement. Mr Karakus also mentioned this. He even filed a motion when we talked about the quarantine bill. I heard the minister today say, "The chance of getting caught is a hell of a lot." The chance of getting caught is real. A real chance is that it is very big, because a not big chance is not real. I would like to know: what is the chance of getting into the quarantine measure and what is the chance of getting into the corona tickets? I would like to hear from the Minister if he could give us a little more information. Okay, let's talk about those corona tickets. We've all talked about the youth. I have young daughters of my own. They all jumped and they all started dancing, not with Janssen, but without Janssen, but at least they started dancing. Is that the cause of the infections or is a large part of the cause of the infections also that the coronatest certificates are being tampered with? Which brings me to the following. I just notice with the youth... there are more people here who have children or grandchildren of that age. If you used to have a paper with a name or signature under it and you were gonna scratch it and change it, you'd feel how bad you were cheating. Nowadays it's different with those phones: just forward a screenshot and so on. The reality is that these young people have no idea at all that they're actually doing an act that's just a fraud, that can lead to a crime that you get a criminal record for, which can mean something for your future. That's the kind of communication I miss every time. Mrs Nanninga and Mr Otten also spoke about communication. That's the kind of communication I miss. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is also an important point that we should look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Van Dijk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. I do not have any further questions about the bill in this second term. We will support this bill from the SGP. I would also like to thank the Minister, as he pointed out after an interruption, for allowing people to opt for a vaccine that has not been used with an aborted fetal tissue. That would reduce fundamental resistance. Fortunately, that freedom of choice seems to be getting closer. Will the Minister communicate that intended freedom of choice and, if so, how? Then there's the motion of censure. For a moment it struck my mind that there was supposedly once a Member of Parliament, many decades ago, who did not support a motion of censure, "for," he said, "the Minister is even a human being." This is, of course, a problematic argument from a state-of-the-art point of view, since it undermines the whole of the ministerial responsibility. At the same time, especially in times of a deep crisis with many uncertain factors, we cannot and should not expect the infallibility of a minister. The SGP has not applauded all the Minister's policies and intentions, but we do not feel any urge to support a motion of censure. Moreover, this is first and foremost a political issue for the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. There has also been a necessary exchange of views on courtesy in this debate. I'm not going to philosophize about that. Courtesy is a way of life you just have to do. That makes life, including political life, a little more pleasant and it doesn't cost anything. If anyone can't afford that courtesy, get the shoulders up and wait for the next rain shower, I'd say. Finally. I would like to take this opportunity to wish this Minister, his officials and not less all my esteemed colleagues the necessary rest and relaxation during the coming holiday period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u79	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the detailed explanation given by the Minister, our group has drawn a number of important conclusions. Much has become clear to us now. It has become clear to us why the cabinet and this minister are always behind the facts in the fight against the coronapandemic. It is the model The model of the RIMV is leading. Instead of seeing a model as a tool for policy support, the hobby pilots in the coronacockpit have declared the model sacred. As a kind of Oracle of Delphi, as HAL, the computer from Space Odyssey, the model determines the course of the cabinet as regards the corona. In practice, therefore, as the debate has shown today, the main responsibility for combating corona is "the one who can't be named": the Modeller. Even the king and queen went public to visit the Modeller. He was also very much in the publicity, but we don't mention him, Mr. Chairman. Now we understand why the Minister and the Cabinet are constantly taking these counterintuitive decisions, which go against common sense and the sense of timing. Soothings come too early, tightenings too late: too little, too late or too much, too early. After the Minister's answer, we understand. The model is leading, and as long as reality is not modelled, the cabinet does not dare to decide. This decision-making process, therefore, by definition leads to the creation of a single market! Always until poorly timed decisions. Even Aura Timen, who gave a briefing today, said that the superspread events weren't in the model, but that the model was right. I'm an economist myself, and I've worked a lot with models. The saying is "all models are useful" and no more than that. You have to use it as a tool, but it's not blissful. They're hobby pilots who stubbornly keep following the flight plan. They see the storm approaching, but fly right through the thunderstorms and the storm because they refuse to change course. The flight plan is leading, not the actual situation. Then the plane crashes; pity for the passengers, but it was not the pilots, because the flight plan was good and the model was right. But the R is now 2.17 and one in four youngsters is infected with the coronavirus. An all-time high; it's all worse than last year's peak. But the model is right!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u80	This is precisely in line with the point I wish to make to Mr Otten in connection with his motion. I would like to take a serious look at the content of what Mr Otten is proposing here. I also read that tens of thousands of young people have been infected and that this is the result of incorrect policy choices. Let's say what's leading. Also in the Lower House it is stipulated that the number of hospitalisations is the leading indicator, not the number of infections, which is also indicated as ground in the motion. So I'm having trouble with that. I also have a specific question, because the motion states that the Minister must be replaced as soon as possible. It's a motion of censure. Then why didn't Mr Otten just put "motion of distrust" above it? De facto, this is a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u81	Well, that's a semantic matter. By the way, RIVM has just announced that on the basis of the new calculations 600 ic recordings and 800 recordings are already being made in the hospital. So these models are behind the facts. You will be served at your beck and call. It's a semantic matter. In particular, we had Mr Kox's motion of censure against Minister Ollongren at the time in mind. That is one of the few motions of censure adopted in this House a few months ago. We have voted against that, by the way. That is why we had the idea of a motion of censure. If you want to read a motion of censure, that is your own interpretation, I say to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u82	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u83	It would be nice if Mr Otten would just say openly and honestly, as we know him, what the purpose of his motion is. If he wants the minister gone, we should just change the title of the motion. Is it now intended to place the minister in the foreign trade vacancy, or something with trains or something? Should he be given a different position in the cabinet? Is that the intention of replacing the minister, so within the cabinet? Or is it really supposed to send him away and have him quit and resign? It is important, however, for how such a motion should be appreciated whether it is a genuine disapproval of policy or a disapproval of the person, i.e. mistrust and the withdrawal of confidence in the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u84	A "function elsewhere" for the minister is not up to us. That is up to the cabinet and the minister himself, I think. We believe that the fight against this crisis is not in the hands of this minister. It's a combination of the policy and the person. A more competent person, with a medical background with great authority in the population, is now needed to restore confidence. That is very badly damaged, which greatly undermines the approach to the corona crisis. The first step, we think, is for someone else to come. This does not mean that it will succeed immediately, but we are very sceptical that many people will follow the advice of this minister, such as dancing with Janssen and you name it. That is the reality. This would be less courteous, or less appropriate, if I have heard "no respect" from the VVD, but I have no respect for the results of this minister's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u85	The answer you give is clear. I will not give you the floor again, Mr Van Hattem. No, you've now had 10 interruptions; 30 questions. If everyone did, we'd be on 400th question today. So we're not gonna do that. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u86	Then I've got some more to go. Since Mr Otten referred to his inspiration from the Kox motion, I would just like to point out that the Kox motion at the time rejected the Minister's actions and called on her to do something. I didn't mean to send the minister away. That is how Mr Kox has always explained it. In this respect, it is a completely wrong reference, also in terms of inspiration. I'd like to straighten that out. Moreover, we will not support Mr Otten's motion because we do not believe that it adds anything to what the Minister is doing at the moment. This will also be the subject of discussion tomorrow in the House of Representatives, where they will also discuss the Minister's actions in the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u87	Then we have already had your explanation of vote. Thank you. Mr. Otten, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u88	The enthusiasm for the motion could be even greater, Minister Hoekstra would say in this case. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet conducts a form of ice-shot policy. It's obsessed with imaging. Ministers jump from ice flops to ice flops not to fall into the waves of public opinion. If you slip, you just organize a press conference, you say "sorry" three times, and you mumble about error of judgment. Then you jump again joyfully on the next ice shot. "Sorry seems to be the easy word." That's the favorite song in the Tower, it seems. The cabinet is actually increasingly reminiscent of Tony Blair's late days, with his third road, which seemed to be based entirely on spider. There is also a nice book written about it, "Sultans of Spin" by Nicholas Jones, for the lovers. At some point, the British population was completely finished with this policy, which was formed only on the basis of spider, imagery and one-liners. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As we explained in the first term, we are convinced that this minister's approach to the corona crisis is not in good hands. That is why we have tabled this motion of censure and once again call on the cabinet to replace the minister with a thorough professional with knowledge, who can make well-balanced judgements independently and not blind-tailed on a model. For example, someone like Marcel Levi, former director of the AMC, who has also done a lot of things in England. I would just mention someone, but it could also be another physician with demonstrable administrative experience and authority in the population. Only in this way, we believe, can the confidence of the Dutch people be regained in the approach to corona policy and we can overcome this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u90	Yes. I had one second left, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u91	I call Mrs Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u92	I have a question for Mr Otten. He states that the cabinet would only make its decision on the basis of models. I assume that Mr Otten is also reading the documents we get about the decision-making process. In the letters, for example in the letter of 6 July, a number of other organisations are discussed in detail which have given advice not on the basis of models, but also on the basis of their assessments, observations and scientific knowledge and skills. Are you familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u93	Yeah, I'm aware of that. But we get the impression that we already had that impression, but that became very clear to us today that the model is quite leading. That was confirmed in the technical briefing this morning. The model is always right. Well, the model has resulted in us now having a hugely high R-factor of 2.17. In the delta variant, it's even 2.55 or something. So now he's on an all-time high. You need to use that model a little bit to keep working options, but not for more than that. That's not some kind of oracle, and neither is the modelling. I think that is what people have been hiding behind, perhaps out of political opportunism. But the cabinet must also time decision-making in particular on the basis of its own judgment and intuition. We saw last week that these corona infections were so out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u94	Can I say that a technical briefing on a model is actually about a model? I think that makes a lot of sense. I think that is part of the input for and an instrument in the decision-making of the cabinet. I think that's what we read in the letter. In that respect, I hope that we will both continue to read those letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u95	You are now saying what it should be like, namely that the model should be an addition, but in practice I find that it is not. Reality must almost adapt to the model. So you get that you're always chasing the facts, because reality isn't in the model yet. So we have to get it in first. Now reality has been put into it, and RIVM has just come to the conclusion that 600 ic-recordings are about to arrive. After all, the model has been adapted again. That way, by definition, you'll always go after the facts. Always. So it's gotta be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I now give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister who gave the answers on behalf of the government. We have had a long debate so far. In the first term, I was concerned about the position of vaccinees. In the second term, I would like to continue with this. We will vote in favour of the bill. In relation to the measures taken for the coming period, I would like to put forward a motion in line with what I tabled last night. The essential point is that we call on the government at the next Council of Ministers to indicate to the Minister that it is the time when a number of issues will be assessed in this context to assess whether there is scope for declaring the restrictive measures to combat the COVID-19 virus not applicable to complete vaccinees. The: Mr Raven proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that the Government does not take into account citizens who have been fully vaccinated and therefore actively contribute to the fight against the COVID-19 virus in the context of restrictive measures to combat the COVID-19 virus; Whereas a study carried out by the American Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (RIVM) shows that vaccination with the vaccines of Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna mainly occurs in the spread of the virus COVID-19; Whereas an Israeli study recently published in the leading scientific journal Nature Medicine also shows that vaccinees barely spread the virus COVID-19; Whereas the Health Council, in its opinion addressed to the Minister for Health, Well-being and Sport of 20 May last, indicated that vaccination against COVID-19 not only protects against (serious) disease and mortality, but can also, to some extent, prevent transmission; Whereas it seems only reasonable that citizens who actively contribute to the fight against the COVID-19 virus should not be penalised for this by means of restrictive measures; calls on the Government to assess at the next Council of Ministers whether there is scope to exclude fully vaccinated persons from the restrictive measures to combat the COVID-19 virus, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets the letters BW (, 35874).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u98	I would like to thank the Chamber for allowing me to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u99	And that puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u101	Thank you. Mrs. De Bruijn has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u102	I have a brief technical question. I do not think we are dealing with the agenda of the Council of Ministers. You may ask the Minister to carry out the motion, but you cannot decide that it will be on the agenda at the next Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u103	I can understand that question because you may not have received the text entirely. It is a request to the government, and that is actually the purpose of the discussions we are having here in the Upper House. We are giving consideration to matters that we consider important to the government. One of the considerations I would like to make is that, in the next recitals, the government will assess, within the framework of COOVID-19, whether it is possible to exclude vaccinees from the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u104	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u105	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u106	Mr. Chairman. I'm responding to a motion and a statement. I'll leave the rest of the statements for a while. For the rest, I have a number of questions to answer. First of all, I respond to Mr Raven's motion. I'll meet him there. That's a motion you get to put on your bookshelf for three points before your graduation. That's just because there's a pretty impressive size to see. In substance, the motion also explains what has been said and written about the transmission brake. The most striking thing about it is that to some extent transmission is actually being inhibited. It is now quite up to date, but that cannot be reassuring for releasing measures for vaccinees, especially if they come into contact with unvaccinated people. So that's one. The second comment I would like to make is that we have quite deliberately said that we do not want to impose vaccination, not even indirectly. Actually, we don't even want to force you to prove you've been vaccinated. Thus, working with corona certificates has always recovered as an alternative and there is the alternative of a negative test. This means that we always assume three reasons when working with corona tickets that could lead to the same green check mark. We are consciously doing so to prevent an implicit vaccination imperative. That's why I'm going to discourage this motion in this form, but of course we have the distinction between what you like when you show a DCC certificate and what you can't do without. We will, but that is not only true for vaccinees, so for that reason I would like to advise against this motion. Then I would like to respond to a statement by Mrs De Boer. That was about the reflection. If jokes go wrong, you always have to want to pull them off the table, so this one. But I wanted to reflect in all seriousness on what I really see as an error of assessment two weeks ago. The fact that the signals were on green is no excuse. Others, not least the House of Representatives and our advisers, also thought with us that what we did could be done. That's no excuse either. That is why we wanted to give that reflection yesterday and I repeated it here today, because we have lessons to learn from it. I don't want to take that off. I hope Mrs De Boer wants to hear it that way too. Then I'll come to the questions. There is one more question that needs to be answered. It's about that letter before Christmas about the Wpg actually as a successor to the temporary law. That's how I heard you. First of all, I think we should distinguish what should be changed in the current Wpg if we would rather get off the Twm and move on to a modified Wpg in order to overcome the current crisis. That is the letter I can send in December, so not before December. A proposal might emerge from that to indeed move towards an amendment to the Wpg, but I do not want to anticipate the content of that letter. So that's one. The second question is: what do you have to learn from all the evaluations and where could this lead, including in terms of legislation? Then it's more about future resilience and a pandemic parate Wpg. We will not achieve this in December, because we do not yet have all the evaluations at our disposal. When do you get some evaluations and what can be expected from the translation into policy practice? That was Mrs De Boer's question. I'd like to outline that for you in September. There is no doubt that we will know more about this in December, so I will outline it. In any case, we want to be able to outline a timetable for this in September. Then there's the Van der Voort motion. With regard to the lower limit of working with tickets, I have indicated indicatively: I see the same lower limit as for working with 1.5 meters. If the need to do so falls to 1.5 metres, the de facto need to use tickets will also lapse. I have said: but that might be different for those settings, which we have also learned in recent weeks, in which several people are very close to each other, some of which have been vaccinated and some of which have not been vaccinated. That could be a pocket for further spread. Many of those pockets on a weekend can get the whole thing back on its feet. We have to prevent that. So I'll come back to that. I come back to the intermediate positions in the letter that we want to send after the decision of the 13th August, because that is what this is about. By the way, I also think that we should learn for the next few weeks what is an epidemiological upper limit and what contamination risk it is not safe to work with tickets at all, because we know that in vaccinees there is always a residual risk of transmission; that is an answer to Mr Nicolaï. Of course, that doesn't make the risk behind the front door zero. In addition, you always have false negatives in test results. That never makes the risk zero. There are also one more false negatives in antigen tests. So we need to establish an epidemiological lower limit. It's much more related to your motion and the adoption of the law at the time. When can we get rid of it again, we certainly are not stuck here until juttemis: that was a bit of the tone of that time. That's one way. The other side is that there is also a limit until it is safe. We must dare to define both limits. Then, of course, there is a lot more to be done within the care. That's what you came back to. Of course, there is a lot more to be done within the care, not only the scaling-up as I outlined it and not just the catching-up of the coming time, which we are really sweet with for a while, but there is also a lot to be done in a personal sense. I think Mr Van der Voort is right to point that out. There is a limit to what you can do nationally, but of course we are very keen to work together with trade unions and employers to see how we can shape that recovery, actually more the revitalization of the troops, and how we can start at the same time with the great human issue that we have for the future. Mr Van Ark is working on this very intensively. I'll make sure you get the progress notes on that point, too. To be honest, I hope so, but I will make sure that Mr Van Ark sends those progress letters to the First Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u107	I just heard the Minister mention my name, so maybe this is the time to break in. The question is this. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that there are three things in these corona tickets, the vaccination, the test and so on, and that gives enough security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u108	With the law as established here, we have activated three evidences as an opportunity to give yourself access in a controlled setting where the 1.5 meters could be released, as long as that 1.5 meters cannot be released at all. Those are recovery, negative test and vaccination. In the negative test, it may also be an antigen test. We need to do the evaluation for the last two weekends. This may lead to a conclusion regarding the scope of application: where can you do access tests to keep it safe? This leads to a conclusion regarding the use of tickets in relation to the level of contamination. This leads to a conclusion with regard to the 40 hours versus 24 hours; we have actually already come to that conclusion. This may lead to a conclusion with regard to enforcement; that question has also been raised. This may lead to a conclusion regarding PCR versus antigen. There are many lessons to be learned over the past few weeks, because it should not have gone as wrong as it has gone. That is why we really want to have these lessons drawn and that we want to do so with science, so that we can close the gaps. We also have the relationship with the more contagious delta variant to rethink. Did we know there's always a residual risk on transmission? Yes, of course. That is not the point in itself. Do we know that there is always a residual risk because there may be a false negative result? Yes, of course. The question is, can you afford that sum of all the restriscos in relation to the level of infection outside? That's the question we need to answer, I think. We've got a couple of weeks for that. From the thirteenth you might want to get started again with that access tests, in a somewhat wider scope of application than now. But where exactly? I'm not getting ahead of myself. We really need to learn those lessons first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u109	I understand from the Minister's answer that questions have arisen again. But those corona tickets have been carefully decided on on the basis of research. We now see that Lowlands and other festivities can all not go on anymore. Why should this not continue if it is properly maintained, monitored and monitored? After all, we can assume that you are much less contagious when you are vaccinated and that basically you are not contagious when you are tested? You are actually imposing some kind of punishment without giving clear answers to that question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u110	In any case, we should really keep the word "punishment" out of this. That doesn't have anything here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u111	I don't mean by "punitive measures" punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u112	The Minister has the floor. Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u113	That's not real. We just need to learn from the past two weekends. We have seen that we unintentionally created a perfect cocktail in it to make that virus wink huge again. There has been working with tickets, also the way in which tickets have been worked, so occasionally indeed the messing at the front door and the messing we have seen of course... But that's not the explanation everywhere. We have also seen a lot of entrepreneurs who have acted in good faith. Nevertheless, there were too many infections behind the front door. That brings us to questions about the settings in which we have tried that. Because it's true that we've been trying this for months, with the entire event industry and with good scientific guidance. Only, do the setting and the width of the scope of application, with all the factors I mentioned just now, not make the risk of adding up too great? Is it, therefore, with all the minor residual risks added together, with a much more contagious virus and in a much wider scope of application, not too high a risk? We'll have to check it out. We do have a few weeks to do that. I'm not going to anticipate the conclusion we'll draw after that. But it may be that you're making a distinction between outside and inside. It may be that you distinguish between antigen and PCR tests. We have already learned a number of lessons, for example from 40 to 24 years old, which is a lesson that we have already drawn and re-introducing the waiting period before you get a vaccination certificate. We've already come to that conclusion. So we have already drawn a number of conclusions and we still have a number of conclusions to draw. Let's just take those weeks to come to those conclusions. I would like nothing more than to be able to allow those events that were looking forward to getting back to work to continue. But I will of course do so with a little more caution and a little more caution, because we have already learned from the last two weekends. So we have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u114	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u115	Then I also answered the question about the corona tickets of the Party for Animals. If the approval law is rejected and there is a gap in the instruments, what is the role of the cabinet? That was a question in the first term. In fact, you add: we have to want to define what will be the end of the pandemic, or the epidemic, because it will also legitimise the current instruments. With each extension we have to argue why the instruments need to be continued. So that's what we're doing. We'll show you that, and let's get that backed up by the OMT. This argument is therefore based on what is considered necessary from measures which must be continued in order to overcome the epidemic. Then Mr Van Hattem asked a number of questions, some of which I really answered in the first period. So we're not going to double in that. Mr Van Hattem continued to refer to the epidemiological threshold for renewal. That is so difficult because we have to find out again. But I still think we can resume that conversation in September. In the coming period, we are going to see that there is going to be an alternating relationship between the rates of infection and hospital admissions. We're gonna learn from that. In this way we can come up with a new roadmap, in which we also want to put together new indicators, which could give rise to either regional or national intervention, where hospitalisations are indeed a very important factor. Protecting care has always been an important goal. I don't want to change that target. In particular, the level of infection is an indicator to be seen: if these infections are to go back through the generations or the neighborhood, then you can get vulnerable people back into hospitals. The vaccination rate is becoming an increasingly decisive indicator. That interplay between these indicators and those targets, we will have to re-map those signal values in relation to the measures to be taken. That's what we'll come back to in September, so we can continue that conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u116	I suggest that we let the Minister answer Mr Van Hattem's questions and then let Mr Van Hattem begin his next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u117	Then fair information about young people and the potential for side effects. Of course, fair information about this, but it is good to get the advice of the Health Council on that every time. The first argument of the Health Council is: direct health benefits you book for young people. Look at the potential risk of side effects as well as the potential disease burden that can cause corona contamination among young people. Even if you only lean on the individual health effects, the direct health effects of vaccination among young people, that argument would be enough to make the balance positive. Yes, there's a risk of side effects, but it doesn't outweigh the risk of serious disease due to corona, even without any underlying suffering. Of course, this opportunity is much lower for young people than for the elderly, but that opportunity is certainly not zero. And the risk of side effects is in any case very much less than the risk of a serious disease. That's what we have to keep saying forever. I think I have had Mr Van Hattem's questions when I remove the questions I answered in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u118	Yeah, but there was a factor just in the second term. In replying to Mr Van der Voort of D66, the Minister indicated that an epidemiological lower limit and an epidemiological upper limit should also be set. The Minister has just promised in the discussion that it will be looked at in this way. I only miss that question in the second term, how exactly is that going to be done and by whom? Is that what the cabinet is going to decide, or is it going to be determined in another way? And how is all this going to be determined in concrete terms? This is very important in order to be able to weigh up measures later. I would have liked to have more clarity about that, with the process and the factors involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u119	We have, of course, made a roadmap. We established it in February and sent it to the Chamber. This roadmap translates into the arrangements under the Twm. That will also be the case now. We will return the "adapted" roadmap to the Chamber in the September letter. This will also include indicators which may give rise to intervention. Its actual application is, of course, reflected in the arrangements under the Twm. There is then an intervention option for the Lower House, but also the Upper Chamber has an intervention option based on its regular instruments. So you yourself have a little in hand or how intensively we come to talk about it, but at least the cabinet will inform the Chamber about the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u120	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u121	Finally. I also heard the Minister say that the contagion rates are being taken back as a factor. The United Kingdom has decided to release all the measures on 19 July, despite the fact that there are tens of thousands of infections a day in the United Kingdom at the moment. Can the Minister tell us what the difference is between what is happening here today, namely that the measures are still being retained and extended until all possible variants may have passed the review, and the United Kingdom is still nearby?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u122	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u123	That is indeed a different approach. That is what Mr Van Hattem says very well. By the way, in the United Kingdom vaccination is a little bit further than that: "Everyone who wants to be vaccinated has now had the chance. There is no doubt that the number of new corona infections will lead to hospitalisations, but we estimate that care will no longer be overburdened in such a way that the rest of the population will no longer be able to take care of them. So let's take the step." 'Cause if you don't do it now, my colleague from Health says there, when will it be? I do not dare to take that step at this time, given the tremendously exciting figures of the last two weeks. Let me take a look back at where we were on June 26th. Then all the signals were green. At that time, the OMT's advice was that the step we were taking was logical and justified. With a number of comments, of course, you can always enter into a discussion about this, but these have not been the major factors that make a difference in the last two weeks. Nevertheless, the step we have taken has led to the infections we are now facing. Now our OMT advises of course: "Beware, because with such a big mountain of infections OK, it's now among young people, but it's not guaranteed that it's all among young people. So be careful. Okay, let's take a look. So let's get the brake back on." We are. It'll be legitimized from the same goals. It always seems in Van Hattem's contributions that we are always trying to find a reason to come up with new measures. Well, we want nothing more than to get rid of the measures. I'd love nothing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u124	How far along are you with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u125	I think the criticism... what we care about as a cabinet is that we went too fast two weeks ago. I think that is also visible now in practice. That has just been an error of assessment and that is an error of assessment that I do not want to make again. I have a few more questions, and we'll be there by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u126	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u127	First 50PLUS. No, I'm just gonna ask the SGP first. The SGP has asked a question about the option of choosing vaccines. The extent to which that can be done, let's take it one step at a time. What we initially did was give the group from 60 to 64, who received AstraZeneca, the opportunity to be vaccinated with Pfizer. The people who were to be vaccinated with Janssen there also have the possibility to be vaccinated with Pfizer, by making another appointment. That appointment is now possible for all age groups, from the age of 12. The degree of freedom of choice has therefore already been reduced. From now on, I think July 16th, that is to arrange Friday, that those who have had one shot of Astra may have a second shot of Pfizer, because we have seen that mix and match can. I do think that, through you, Mr President, I say to Mr Van Dijk, Mr Van Dijk, that it helps not to have it in the way we are talking about this to help conscientious objectors in their thinking about it, not to have it in the way we are talking about it, not to have it in the way we are talking about it, but to help conscientious objectors in their thinking about it, not to have it in the way we are talking about aborted foetal tissue. This leads to anti-vaxers who make stories of it as if there were ground babies in vaccines. Still, in all flatness: that's what you get next from stories. And it's not. A human cell line is being used. Where AstraZeneca, also a vector vaccine, is based on a chimp adenovirus, Janssen uses a human cell line. That is something else, and I think that we should want to put it that way, with the precision and the nuance that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u128	I'm very much in favour of precision, especially with these kinds of precarious themes, but unfortunately it's not quite a word game. The objection focuses on the fact that, in the development of different vaccines, I'm afraid there are more than you're now indicating that cell lines of aborted fetuses have been used. Those are the facts. And just when you're a little shady about that, you actually chase this group into the curtains a lot more: see, they're also not open about it and not transparent. So indeed the facts on the table. Then let us work on that freedom of choice, so that we may give these people less reason to refuse vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u129	That human cell line indeed, that's the background to it. I am very much in favour of providing adequate information. You know that. Then I come to the questions: that is my last folder of 50PLUS. First of all, the risk of a red card. A red map, I mean. There's just that risk. ECDC creates the color codes. It is then up to individual countries to take action, also given the circumstances in such a country. I actually see every country reserved the right, reserved the possibility, to take action. What we will do as a cabinet is, of course, that we will understand, from the various portfolios I am with my colleagues in Health, but for example Mr Mona Keijzer with her colleagues in Economic Affairs and Mr Kaag with her colleagues in Foreign Affairs with our colleagues in other Member States. In the end, the entry rules are usually up to the Justice Ministers. This is the case in every Member State. Mr Grapperhaus will therefore be in contact with his colleagues. Let us hope that, even though the number of infections in the Netherlands is not going well, many holiday countries say: if Dutch people can show that DCC, they are just welcome. Well, that could mean getting tested before you leave. Those are all the consequences that go with it. Fortunately, we are also equipped for that. What specific measures are being taken by countries, I am afraid to predict at the moment. That can really change. That's why we ask everyone to look at ewopreis.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u130	Are you at the end of the answer to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u131	Of this question, but there are two other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u132	If you'd like to answer it first, we'll do all the interruptions in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u133	Yes. Are any measures shared in good time, taking into account the organisation of events? We have said that all current restrictions apply until mid-August. We had already planned to take a decision on the basis of the OMT opinion on 13 August on 1.5 metres. Then we can also take the decision on possible relaxations in relation to last Friday's increase. If it's necessary to take measures sooner, we will. Finally, the very last question. The next Council of Ministers is in mid-September, but is a Council of Ministers meeting earlier? The next ministerial council is in mid-August, but we have a core team in the cabinet dealing with the crisis. That meets throughout the summer, usually on Mondays and Wednesdays. Every day in between we also hang on the phone and Webex when necessary. We're just gonna keep meeting. Of course, we'll stay in our posts. This means that you would be able to see Mr Rutte and myself more often. I have heard all the good vacation wishes, but I thought it wise to suspend the first week and a half of the holiday, because I think there is still work to be done for the time being. That vacation's gonna have to be sometime later. That's how we deal with it. We'll stay in charge and our posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u134	You're at the end of your answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u136	Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u137	Thank you for the last answer that the cabinet makes sure to be in prison when it is needed. Then there are the other two questions that I asked and to which you replied. The Koch Institute has once again identified the Netherlands as a risk area. Apart from all the discussions that are taking place, my question was: can you estimate the risk that it might become deep red in the next few days, so that people can no longer go on vacation? 'Cause a lot of people want to go on vacation. Can you say something about that? If that happens unexpectedly, will communication take place seamlessly and very quickly? That is the first question. The second one was about the big events. There's a lot of criticism of what happened with the smaller ones, but there's a couple of big ones coming up. I won't mention any names. You probably know what I'm talking about. Of course, they want to know long in advance because of the long preparation. What's the last date on which there's still a green light or when it can go red?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u138	I'm seeing a row of interrupts right now. I will allow one question per interrupt, because otherwise we are really out of time. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u139	With regard to travel, there is a difference between the colour and the measures. I do expect the color to go in the red and maybe go to dark red. It's possible. Then it is up to countries themselves to decide what measures they will take. In the case of restrictions on tourism, there is always "wise to travel." Everyone can find accurate, up-to-date information there. It will always be updated as soon as we receive a message of a changed travel policy per country. That's how we do it. In addition, it is currently impossible to predict what measures countries are taking, because measures are always taken in the context of that moment. For the time being, it seems that I say it very carefully, most countries do indeed have all kinds of DCC obligations, namely mandatory vaccination or testing before you enter. So you need to be able to use the CoronaCheck app. For the time being, the number of countries with an effective quarantine obligation seems to be low. The latter, of course, makes holidays very complicated. That is what we must avoid. That is also what our international commitment is aimed at. But I am not going to make the prediction that we will succeed in making good agreements with every country. I just don't know. I really don't know. You can expect us to make the effort towards all these countries, which is what we do bilaterally, sometimes with a group of countries at the same time, in order to continue to allow holidays for people who have been vaccinated or people who have been tested negative, but I do not know what countries decide. That's what they're really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u140	What about the events?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u141	As far as events are concerned, we have told everyone that 13 August is the time when we can make a choice in what can be done after 13 August. That's annoying for a lot of events. We are very aware of that, but I cannot anticipate the state of the epidemic at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u142	I have a question similar to Mr Van Rooijen's. We started this debate last night, on Monday evening, because the Minister is meeting with his European counterparts this afternoon. Well, they are generally a little more "timely" with measures abroad than in the Netherlands. The foreign ministers also see what we are seeing here, what is happening here over the last few days, weeks, namely that the Netherlands is becoming a kind of risk area very quickly and that there are all kinds of consequences. I understand that the Minister does not yet know exactly what is going to happen, but what is the expectation of the outcome of this afternoon's meeting? There you have a certain...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u143	I have just explained this to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u144	Yeah, but you say it's gonna take a while. But I think that goes much faster than you think, if I may be honest, because people abroad are generally a little more decisive and are not going to wait and meet endlessly, but are taking measures. So it may be that the Netherlands will be declared code red tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u145	Yes, your question has already been answered. Then Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u146	In February we had a debate on covid. Then I made a proposal about testing for access. I put that in a motion at the time. You then advised against it and two months later...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u147	I'm gonna do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u148	...it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u149	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u150	No, there was some disagreement about that motion, because everyone was against it except me. But three or four weeks ago, we talked about those mouth caps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u151	What's your question, Mr. Raven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u152	At that time I was too early and today you say: yes, it is difficult to make a distinction with those vaccinees; it is not yet clear. In Greece and France, there is reason to deal with vaccinees differently. I am sure that this will happen very soon in all other areas, including the Netherlands. You have said that you will continue to assess the situation. In any case, I call on the Cabinet to take due account of the position of the vaccinees and preferably to keep them out of action. The Minister has discouraged the motion, but he continues to assess the situation. I'm satisfied with that. I hope the Minister returns soon with the redeeming word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u153	Then Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u154	Mr President, very briefly. I asked for the evaluation of the European Union to be included. I saw you write something down, but just to remind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u155	This is totally true. We have, of course, had several discussions with European colleagues this afternoon, I have had all kinds of bilateral discussions and sometimes we come together with all 27 ministers, and European solidarity with the rest of the world is always a very great thing there. I am referring to discussions with EU health ministers, but also when the Heads of Government are together. The support we offer to the rest of the world is certainly an important point. The fact that we are allowed to live on this beautiful piece of earth and have the luxury of being able to afford us where we stand gives us an extra responsibility towards the rest of the world. That's very clear on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u156	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u157	Mr President, I would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u158	No, Mr. Karakus, I've given everyone one question. We have now asked 170 questions in the event of interruption, and that seems to me to be quite sufficient. I'm shutting it down now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-19.u159	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. I also propose that we vote this evening on the motions tabled. I shall now suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m.
