ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the policy debate on Kingdom relations. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I don't see any more new colleagues to congratulate, so I'll save it for another time. Mr. Chairman. Under the Christmas tree I read the book of state council Paul Comencia, entitled "Divided kingdom. Plea for new momentum in Kingdom relations." As far as I'm concerned, the title couldn't be more striking. That's how I've experienced it myself over the past 30 years: too much division, too little momentum. In 1991 I first landed at Hato Airport, as a member of the permanent committee for Dutch-Antillian and Aruban Affairs of the House of Representatives. As a parliamentarians, and quite frankly as a tourist, I have been there many times and learned a lot. I have been able to contribute to the execution of missions of the Kingdom Government, including as a member of the Jessurun Commission, which laid the foundations for the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles and the new political relations as at 10-10-10. This political structure may not be optimal, but it was what the countries and residents of the countries chose. The Statute offers incredibly many opportunities to make it a thriving relationship. This can only be done if there is confidence rather than mistrust, if there is thought of opportunities rather than threats and if there is governance in the national interest rather than in the self-interest. Unfortunately, this is not enough. The four countries of our Kingdom, which have laid down their equivalence in the Statute but of course are not uniform or uniform, irritate each other too often and encourage each other too little. We're not exactly getting the best out of each other. Too often the autonomy argument is used not to do anything, especially on both sides of the ocean. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? Why did he say at the end of May last year shortly after the outbreak of the corona crisis that the countries of the Caribbean in the Kingdom cannot bear their own autonomy? Thus, the political relationship was more or less declared bankrupt. A year earlier, at a lecture in September 2019, the Secretary of State spoke the sensible words that pressing for negotiations on a new statute was opening Pandora's box. Why the attack on autonomy last year? And where is the Secretary of State now, another year later? I hope he's come to his senses. The Secretary of State added the following in the first Corona wave: "It is a shame that we now have to send thousands of food packages that way to ensure that people get through the day." I do not think that is a disgrace at all. A country such as Curaçao has been facing two immense crises over the past three years: in addition to corona de Venezuela crisis, with a huge influx of refugees, who have partly fallen into illegality and have been locked up in barracks under inhuman conditions. We talked to the people there. It's unworthy of a rule of law. Can the Secretary of State outline the current situation? Sint-Maarten suffers daily from the effects of the devastating hurricane Irma three years ago. The frustration among the population is great, because the generous financial support of the Netherlands for reconstruction is insufficient. It is no shame that a country like Curaçao, with as many inhabitants as Apeldoorn, cannot manage this crisis, let alone Saint Martin. That is why our group appreciates the fact that the Dutch Government has granted loans and gifts to the Caribbean countries in times of crisis. Can the Secretary of State give an overview of what has been granted in respect of loans and grants per country? The amounts are substantial, but frankly they do not fall into the tens of billions we transfer through the EU to countries such as Italy and Spain, in order to keep them going in the current crisis. We call that support solidarity. That is also well understood self-interest. The question that Kim Putters has once raised is: how much inequality can a democratic rule of law tolerate? How much social disadvantage can the Kingdom endure? As a member of this Chamber, I have been shocked again over the last two years by the confrontation with and the stories about the extent of poverty in both the three Caribbean countries and the three Caribbean Dutch islands, Bonaire, Statia and Saba. The Secretary of State speaks in the papers about 80,000 people who have been helped with and are therefore dependent on food packages, made possible by the Netherlands. That's 20% to 25% of the population. Mr. Chairman. In June 2016, this Chamber adopted the Ganzevoort motion to set a social minimum for the BES Islands. These benchmarks are available, but they take into account the expected decline in this high cost of living. This means that the gap is large to the minimum cost of living. The real minimum income of many residents is really too low. Poverty is unabated. The story that costs will fall in the long run will be true, but it simply takes too long. And here the Netherlands is responsible. The National Ombudsman wrote a year and a half ago that we should all be ashamed of poverty at the BES. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that there is too much poverty and that of the spirit of the Ganzevoort motion, namely the setting of a social minimum that can provide people with the necessary living needs, has not been enough and is he prepared to take additional measures to help the poorest part of our population? Mr. Chairman. Back to the assistance we have provided to the countries over the past year. That didn't happen on its own. The Netherlands imposed conditions on that aid in the summer. And it's okay. Hard conditions, even, to enforce the necessary reforms. And even that's allowed. But the way in which the agreements on the land packages were reached could and should have been different. If three countries experience desirable reforms as a dictation, something is thoroughly wrong. I know that the toes can be long, but many constructive forces did not have a good word left for this process either. A policy of choking or swallowing doesn't fit in with the kingdom relationship. C'est le ton qui fait la musique, chairman. That tone was too high and too loud. It has unnecessarily disturbed relations, because the approach to achieving reforms and investments through country packages that are structuralally contributing to sustainable economic development on the islands is fine. Investment in the financial, economic, health, education and the rule of law is urgently needed. In such a delicate process in which old sentiments and special feelings soon turn to shreds, you have to leave each other alone and that is really something other than padding and keeping each other wet. It is a plea to come to something together, in which both giver and recipient can be proud of both the idea and the execution. In the meantime, we have been able to take note of the opinion of the Council of State on the National Law establishing the Caribbean body for reform and development, the COHO. The Council of State is extremely critical. He referred to the impairment of his own responsibility and called for compatibility with the provisions of the Staff Regulations. In anticipation of the legal process, the Secretary of State's initial response to this critical opinion of the Council of State would be welcome. Mr. Chairman. If we look a little soberly at the relations between the countries in the Kingdom, we can see that they are suboptimal. We appreciate the efforts of the Secretary of State in recent years, but we have not been able to reach or convince the people of the various islands. The elections in Curaçao last month resulted in substantial losses for the government parties PAR and MAN and Prime Minister Rhuggenaath, a constructive government leader, was thus banished to the opposition. A year ago, the elections at St Maarten led to a coalition with which it is difficult for the Secretary of State to do business. The petition of a majority of states in which the Netherlands is accused of racism, discrimination and neocolonialism is a sad low point. The Secretary of State responds by turning off the money tap. This is a new step in an escalation model, where de-escalation is so desirable. But I agree with the Secretary of State; it takes two to tango. Six months ago we had elections on Statia, two years after the Netherlands had to intervene in the administration there. The result of that election was identical to the composition of the Board prior to that intervention. Then we're not doing something right. What is the State Secretary's reflection on this analysis of the three most recent elections? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to my conclusion. I am sure that there are enough people in the four countries who are committed to an undivided Kingdom. We all need to talk about that. We do not have the final answer either, but we do know that using the power of civil society gives energy. We need to link schools here, link them structuralally to schools there. The same goes for the care and so on. Lots of connections, lots of contacts, lots of communication: that works. We know that investing in a sustainable, more diversified economy creates jobs and provides a perspective for the population. That works. We also know that knowledge of, and understanding of, the specific problems of governing small islands and countries helps. Because every decision there is about your neighbor or your family. To offer tailor-made work and do justice to diversity between countries and islands; that helps. We know that taking into account differences in culture helps, and show that you know the history of our Kingdom. But it is also true that the choice of the Kingdom by the people of the countries is a choice for a value community. It's voluntary, but not noncommittal. Good and honest governance is a cornerstone of this. And it helps if not every disagreement is reduced to our colonial history. It also helps if we let down our shyness for those accusations. The main task for the new cabinet is to strengthen mutual trust and to move from idea to implementation. The Kingdom relationship should be given a higher priority in the new cabinet. Jaap de Hoop Scheffer says it literally in the AIV opinion on security and legal order in the Caribbean. Thom de Graaf means it in his lecture for the University of Curaçao. The National Ombudsman writes it in his report on poverty at the BES. Now we have to do it. A higher priority can contribute to a new impetus that benefits the population, a Kingdom of burden to lust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mr Dittrich wishes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u5	This is a nice story; thank you very much. The core of your speech is actually: more priority, good communication, together we stand strong. Do you think that a forthcoming Kingdom Conference could play a good role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u6	I think so. I think that we, as four countries, should engage in intensive dialogue. We must share an analysis, we must dare to say to each other that we are too divided and too unconnected. I think it starts with that analysis. And besides, we shouldn't be you-baking, we should be looking at each other thoroughly. What can we do better with each other, ultimately in the interests of the population? For we will agree: these poverty rates are unacceptablely high. That's one. The second point concerns the question of what is the solution. I have mentioned a number of suggestions, but the list is far from complete. Mr Dittrich's question may also go back to part of his contribution; that is how I think we know each other long enough, and that is what interruptions are for. I would say: yes, the idea that you are speaking to each other in the Kingdom about how we can do better can certainly be part of that higher priority that I would like. That does not mean anything about the efforts of this Secretary of State during this period, because I have also been positive about this. I am actually more concerned with the fact that we, society and politics, need to invest much more broadly in this relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u7	I can only say that I share that. I also think that this exchange of views is important. This is recorded and appears in the pieces, so that you can also read this on the other side of the lake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Gerkens on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, we would have liked to have this debate today after getting acquainted with the islands, which has been prevented by the pandemic. Since then, contact has gone virtual, with the associated benefits, because we can talk more often, but also with disadvantages. By the way, emotions have remained in that virtual contact. I am sorry that we have not been able to get to know the islands, because I do not have such a long history as Mr Rosenmöller. I would have liked to have made contact with the residents first. Let me begin by expressing my concerns about the rising corona figures there. It's a pretty difficult situation. Mr. Chairman. So I am talking today about an area where I have unfortunately never been before. I have to do it with the images I have of Curaçao by the book The Days of Olim by Miep Diekmann, whose book I read when I was 15. That is a violent book, which revealed to me a world unknown to me with strange cultures, vermin in the fortress, the rebellion, the fire in Otrobanda, our slavery past and the inequality between white and black, reflected in the life of a teenager. A world I don't know, because that world, that part of patriotic history, has been quite unjustly neglected, especially in literature. So I've had to acquire my knowledge in a different way. By participating in the IPKO, but also because of the clear position that my party has taken, I have been introduced to the present-day Caribbean region of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Today's issues are governance, poverty, corona and the economy. To begin with, it's difficult. Tourism is a major source of income for most islands, but it has been hit by the unrest and crisis with the refugees from Venezuela, but also by the tourists who stay away and the pandemic. We have, of course, had the refinery in Curaçao, which has created a lot of jobs and the future of which is uncertain, but also a polluted environment. Eighteen deaths a year cause the refinery. The previous government of Curaçao did not want to limit this, apart from the money that costs such an approach. We also see that income inequality has increased in all the islands and the inhabitants of the islands have deteriorated. Poverty, Mr. Rosenmöller said it already, there's big, very big. So the situation is also dramatic on all islands today. Violence is increasing, poverty is growing, corona causes black days on Curaçao, Aruba has a political crisis, Bonaire has gone bankrupt and Sint-Maarten complains to the UN about the Netherlands. The figures show: eleven years ago it was really better. Mr. Chairman. We now know four countries within the Kingdom and special municipalities. But administrative relations are still wringing. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that. In my group's view, this is because we grant autonomy to countries that are struggling to set up their own democracy. This autonomy seems to have been granted without the precise definition of what exactly comes into this autonomy, so there are great differences of understanding between the Netherlands and the three other countries. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? The situation in Aruba and Saint Martin's complaint show that political stability is still far from being achieved there. It is also difficult, because they are actually small islands. It is difficult to have a balanced political system. It's a different world, then, so to speak, in this country. The interrelationships on such an island create a continuous threat of conflict of interest. In order to put democracy first, real hard work is required. Corruption, which exists in those countries, is also persistent and affects the political playing field time and time again. Eventually, it leads to disillusionment with the citizen and loss of confidence in their directors. They are no different from that the high lords take care of themselves, while they have to struggle to stay up. An active role of these inhabitants in these three countries, but also in the municipalities, could create a cultural change. But if you can't even get enough bread on the table with three jobs, there is very little room to take on an active political role, although the number of parties that participated in the Curaçao elections is still hopeful. The question now is: how can we ensure that healthy democracies are created that are resistant to corruption and crime, that self-enriching politicians are prevented and that they have an eye for the whole rather than part of the population? I would like to stress that these politicians certainly already exist in those countries. It is certainly not the case that every politician there is corrupt, criminal or self-enriching, but it still struggles with the administrative culture. Because I know that people are listening: yes, of course it is also true that this democracy does not work optimally in our country. It is clear that I am fighting for this in this part of the Kingdom and, by the way, beyond. Perhaps we should also ask ourselves whether we should ensure that these healthy democracies are created. Doesn't that development belong to the autonomy of those islands? That is also a question I would like to ask the Secretary of State; it is not a rhetorical question. I'm curious to hear his views on this. Mr. Chairman. Curaçao was again confronted with a clue at the end of February. The opposition had paralysed the administration by frustrating the appointment of a Member of Parliament. It was once again a clear signal of the way in which political governance looks at democracy. Meanwhile, people are starving on Curaçao. Curaçao understands the need for austerity and reform, but it says: "These demands are not good and the pace is too high. They hurt and poverty grows." As a cause, it points to the Netherlands. During the IPKO, the cuts in health care were also passed by from Aruba. These are cuts that, among other things, require the closure of children's internals. My group understands the need for these reforms, but also wonders whether these cuts in the public sector are proportionate. On balance, then, the burden falls on the wrong shoulders. From that point of view, it is not surprising that there is unrest. Now, however, the Secretary of State states that these cuts are not the result of the policy of the Netherlands, but of the choices made by the countries themselves. His commitment is to reduce the pay gap. That was also the basis of the so-called Rhuggenaath standard. But the question now is how this approach will develop now that the MFF has won the elections. That is what Mr Rosenmöller said. I would like the Secretary of State to have a view on the current political situation in Curaçao, but also on the cuts in the public sector, especially in the health sector. Is he worried about this, too? And what are the solutions to this? Mr. Chairman. With all this in mind, it is not surprising that the Secretary of State took matters into his own hands and linked the financial support for the corona crisis to the creation of the reform body, the COHO. However, the Council of State says that the creation of the COHO falls within the powers of the countries themselves, although the Secretary of State explains the opinion differently. He has therefore pledged financial support to the countries, but not without the condition of reforms of, among other things, governance and the economy in the countries. Statutair is critical of this and it has also led to anger. It has led to a political shift in Curaçao and the complaint of Saint Martin to the UN. In fact, during the IPKO I have been surprised a number of times by the tone of the conversations there: many fingers and few hand-in-your-own bosom-sticks. Here too, I draw the gloomy conclusion that in 2010 we left the country with the impossible task of developing autonomous democracy under unclear agreements and the country was not ready for it. This is evident from the fact that there have been nine different governments in Saint Martin over the last ten years. The call for genuine autonomy is getting louder and my group understands that call. Governments of the countries and municipalities are still faced with far-reaching and strict indications of economic reform, while the idea was that autonomy would be created. Then something else. Thanks to the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Netherlands is responsible for an unclear laundry list of cases in the countries. According to our group, this leads to uncertainty, inequality and quarrel. That is why my party across the street tabled a motion in 2019 in which we asked for a joint consultation, in order to give more clarity to the tasks of individual countries and of the Kingdom as a whole. On 2 October 2019, the Secretary of State promised the First Chamber to implement the 2016 De Graaf motion by carrying out the 2019 Van Raak motion. So, what's the deal with this stuff? Then there was last year's Van Raak motion, which asks all countries to give a vision of the Kingdom and to indicate who is responsible for what. What about the execution of those motions? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The way forward is a different approach. An approach that shows what democracy must look like. You do this together with all residents, not only of the countries but also of the municipalities. The communities aren't big. It is quite possible to talk to them and to shape administrative relations together with the population. How does the Secretary of State view this? It is also important that the dispute settlement process be speeded up. No, she doesn't deserve a state-law beauty prize. That's tricky for a senator. We prefer good laws here rather than pragmatism, but the situation we are in now requires more than pragmatism: it requires action and clarity. The dispute settlement is beginning to define responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. After Miep Diekmann's books I read Doubles and the Morgen moeten again by Tip Marugg. I still do it with their stories of lime rocks, chirping crickets, tamarind, rats, whiskey and dominoes, but also a lot of passion. My hope is that this passion will develop positively in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about our beautiful kingdom. The four different countries and the BES have historical and important cultural and economic links. The Nanninga Group considers the Kingdom important and attaches great importance to good relations and a good balance between the countries and the region. This is particularly important in the current difficult period. The corona virus hits us hard, but the islands are very much and the economic consequences are enormous. The support from this side of the ocean is certainly substantial but at the same time justified. In difficult times one gets to know one's friends. The corona crisis is hard for all of us, but it also connects us. What will be of great importance in the future is to emerge stronger together from this crisis, under the motto "never waste a good crisis." Mr. Chairman. The islands themselves have already drawn up several plans to achieve a more varied economy, more earning capacity and the necessary recovery after the crisis. But it takes money, not a little bit. As I said, the islands belong to the Kingdom. We can strengthen each other. It is important to bear in mind the regional role of the islands and our alliances. The islands play a crucial role in this. That makes its value all the greater, for the Kingdom in particular and for our allies in general. This does not, of course, prevent cross-compliance, such as transparency or reforms in the case of loans or aid. Mr. Chairman. In these situations, my group is in favour of the so-called 5D model: dreaming, thinking, daring, doing and persevering. Our dream for the Kingdom is one of unity and mutual respect and trust. Two: thinking or making plans has progressed a long way. This proved to be the case during our last IPKO, in which our colleagues from the other countries have already given us some hints of the different veils: from a new port and various construction projects to strengthening Internet opportunities and promoting agriculture and horticulture. Of course, the realism and viability of the initiatives are important. This is all very encouraging. Dare, the third D, will have to be filled in by the politicians of the countries, but in this case also by business people, but that will require funds. My group sees opportunities for this from the Joint Venture Agreement Fund, which includes EUR 800 million from Invest International, a fund set up. This enables public-private financing of realistic, viable and solid projects and programmes on the islands. Let us agree to concentrate on the Kingdom with this fund. We would like to hear the views of our Secretary of State on this. Ownership of all parties involved is important here: no plans designed in splendid isolation, but solid public-private partnerships from the outset, whereby companies also invest themselves and facilitate local authorities. Before the stage of action, the fourth D, is reached, the governments of the countries will first of all have to facilitate and the required "read": necessary framework conditions themselves should be created from their own national interest. This will require a lot of courage, perseverance and courage. The final phase of the 5D model, continuing, is often seen as the most difficult. Political changes or changes in staff can often be identified as an identifiable cause. The ultimate objective of all these public-private initiatives, projects and activities must be so obvious and clear to all that someone cannot leave the ship in the meantime. Clear concrete goals, open communication to all parties and, above all, strong local leadership on the ground help greatly. Mr. Chairman. In all projects and programmes funded by the Netherlands and industry, it is very important that there are clear benefits on both sides of the ocean. The advantages for the islands are quite easy to describe. The initiatives will eventually take place there with the aim of improving the local situation, and this in a broad perspective. Local leadership and commitment are of course basic requirements. Taboos we will have to break together. For the European part of the Kingdom, this could ultimately be lower costs, a better investment climate and even a locational environment and more development opportunities on the islands. Finally, Mr President. When the Kingdom Government gives the order for this, it will have to be the start of the projects and the programmes and not the start of all kinds of discussions. Hands on the team. We will all, together with the business community, have to put our hands on it so that we can get out of this corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the agenda is a huge amount of relevant documents, including the ibo-report Kingdom relations, about the organisation around the BES islands in The Hague. But since this report has been published under my chairmanship, I will not speak about it in my contribution and confine myself to the countries of the Kingdom. My group realizes that the islands have been hit hard by COOVID-19. In times of need, the added value of the Kingdom Alliance must be evident. Fortunately, the financial and factual aid provided by the Netherlands has quickly started and continues to this day. Soon the criticism will come, but I'm sure you'll appreciate it now. Mr. Chairman. Our Kingdom is not determined by similarities, but by differences. The differences between the Netherlands and the Caribbean, and the differences between the Caribbean parts, are large. They are still hanging together too much as loose sand within the structure of the Statute. Corona has further increased those differences. The Group of the Party of Labour is pleased that today, for the first time in this composition of the First Chamber, we can speak with the Secretary of State as a representative of the Dutch Government and hear from him what he has done over the past four years to bridge these differences and to advance the Kingdom. Because the old coalition agreement on this point excels in vagueness, I ask him exactly what the goals were and which ones were achieved. And what should a next cabinet take immediately after the corona crisis, at least the direct corona crisis, has been overcome? Mr. Chairman. If improving the relationship with the governments of the countries was an objective of the cabinet, this was a failure. The relationship with St.Maarten is downright bad. The one with Curaçao threatens to deteriorate rapidly and the relationship with Aruba is also under strong pressure. Emergency support has been experienced as blackmail. The aid is not limited to economic conditions. It seems that the Netherlands has implemented its entire wish list. An additional authority has been imposed which severely restricts the democratic mandate of the parliaments of the countries. They can be overruled on fundamental issues. These are measures which, from a Dutch perspective, may be logical in view of what has happened in the recent past, but can it not be otherwise? The fact that the Curaçao political party MFK is more responsible for financial maladministration, strong financial maladministration, back in the centre of power, may confirm that tight financial frameworks are more necessary than ever. But it may also mean that we have killed the Rhuggenaath cabinet with the heavy demands on support electorally. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the justified and substantial material support, in my group's view, cooperation within the Kingdom and with the reasonable forces is particularly difficult. We are looking with great care at the upcoming elections in Aruba. If the signs do not deceive, we will have three countries that are almost hostile to the Netherlands. Add to this the growing difference in prosperity between the Netherlands, including the BES islands, and the three other countries. Add to this the growing dependency of the Netherlands. How does this move the Kingdom forward? And where exactly are you going? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime... I'm gonna stop and wait for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u15	I hear Mr Recourt talking about a dreaded hostility. Did I understand correctly from his words that your group is actually saying that we in the Netherlands have that on our consciences?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u16	In part, we have that on our conscience, because we are able to push our friends off the stage and leave it to people who are much less our friends. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, eleven years after 10-10-10, we see that the relations within the Kingdom are in need of change, because they are not working properly. There is a great economic, geographical and/or geopolitical vulnerability of the countries. There is therefore an increasing dependence on the Netherlands. Furthermore, there is a continuing threat that fundamental values of the democratic rule of law will be violated. The Netherlands has a responsibility for this too, or the Netherlands feels that responsibility. But the Netherlands does not or hardly have powers to do anything about it. On the other hand, we see the countries that feel unsatisfied, because the Netherlands then uses other, improper means. This is basically a structural problem. It is a structural problem that we have been around for many years, because we do not see a solution in front of us. That's how we keep muddy. That's gotta stop. This is not a structure that my group wants to pass on to our children. Let us sit around the table with four countries within the Kingdom, or perhaps even better: all Caribbean islands and the Netherlands, to explore what tasks, responsibilities and powers are needed to get cooperation forward-looking. Let us first sign a road map to a Kingdom that works because it can bridge differences. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make the initial preparations for this? In order to be able to take steps within the Kingdom, it is not only the structure that needs to be adapted. Investing in a common goal, developing policies together, it has come far too little. The mutual distrust prevails. The current is against this and no matter how hard we row, we are barely moving forward. My advice to the next cabinet would therefore be to invest in a better relationship in addition to another structure, especially with those who pull the same end of the rope. Mr. Chairman. My group also has a specific proposal on this point. This proposal looks at the most sensitive part of our relationship: the fact that our Kingdom is built on racism and oppression inherent in a colonial system. This loaded past plays an implicit and explicit role to this day. Explicitly if we get the non-subtle reproach of acting like colonial and racist oppressors, especially from the leaders of Saint Martin. But also implicitly in the proportions, in the mind and in the self-consciousness, in not taking responsibility for mistakes that have been made, not even for mistakes that have been made in a much further past. Mr. Chairman. Let us examine what obstacles exist in the cooperation resulting from the colonial past, in the Netherlands and in the three other countries of our Kingdom, each in their own way. This study can best be carried out by a researcher not involved in the Kingdom. The perspective of an outsider may point us to any blind spots. You don't know what you don't see. I am inspired by the book Revolusi by the Belgian Van Reybrouck, about Indonesia's independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u17	I hear Mr Recourt say that the government or the Secretary of State must negotiate with those who are kind to us. However, they are not in power. They weren't chosen. How am I supposed to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u18	The tone of my text was different, about why they're not in power. There are many of them, of course, because there are always many causes in a democracy. One of the reasons seems to be that the Rhuggenaath government in Curaçao, for example, was given such a difficult package of measures that it reduced its electoral chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u19	Isn't that just one part of the medal? Has there not also been a great deal given to the islands in the Kingdom, and perhaps too little passed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u20	Yes, of course. I have said this once or twice, four times in my contribution so far, and quite rightly so. Only, the conditions under which too much has been a dictation rather than a collusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u21	Would that mean, according to Mr Recourt, that the parts of the Kingdom are subject to different conditions than we also impose on the Netherlands within normal relations in the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u22	I don't quite understand that question. The Netherlands, of course, has given aid to themselves in the form of large loans, but I do not quite understand what other conditions are meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr Recourt criticized the conditions imposed by the Kingdom on those parts of the Kingdom in the Caribbean. That's what he's criticizing, and he says those conditions are too tight. Should it be, in Mr Recourt's view, conditions that are different from those that we impose on the Netherlands itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u24	If I understand correctly, the Netherlands sets its own conditions. It lends money on the market and then sets conditions for what we do with that money. The countries cannot borrow this, so that goes through the Netherlands, and so the Netherlands lays down conditions that are too strict in the eyes of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mrs. Oomen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u26	In a democracy, you can make your own choices. And those choices are also the responsibility of those parts of the Kingdom. I now have the impression that Mr Recourt does not see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u27	Thank you. Mr Dittrich, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u28	I think I'll join Mr Recourt for a moment. Interesting proposition. Your analysis is that colonialism, racism, at least always plays a role in the accusations, and you come up with a proposal: let us examine it - just to sum it up. I am thinking of this myself, and I ask you, in my first question, that in the case of those who are investigating it, that could be a committee, that could be one person, that anyone, at least culture sensitism, should play an important role in it, also in the eyes of the problems. My question is, do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u29	Yes. In my text, I should like to go a little further on the way in which this research has been carried out. But surely, culture is an important carrier of how you stand in life, so it is also in administrative life. So, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u30	Honestly, I thought you'd finished that part. Let me conclude by saying, apart from listening with interest to the follow-up, that for D66 the core of the problems is also in many different perspectives, which could come to a solution with a lot of communication. But then there must be real investment in communication. And communication is not only from the European Netherlands telling us how to do it, but also really getting information. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u31	Yes. Look, we're not equal within the Kingdom, but we are equal. That's the first notion. But the second notion is that you have to face things. And within the Kingdom, we have seen far too little of what that colonialism has to deal with. Again, I myself was greatly influenced by that book by Van Reybrouck, because I realized how blind I was myself, but also our ancestors................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We didn't see that at the time. And I thought: in what way are we actually still blind at the moment to what results from the system of colonialism, as it has once been in the present Kingdom? And that was the idea: we have to investigate that, because then we also have a reply to all the reproaches we get from "you are colonialist." Let's just open our eyes to where that came from, where it ended up and where it didn't end up. And that has to do with culture, communication, but also with structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u32	Sometimes you ask questions because you implicitly want to criticize what the speaker said. That is by no means my intention; I am trying to understand you. 'Cause I'm getting into my head an inconsistency that I can't imagine with you. So please clarify, through the chairman. On the one hand, you say 'we are four equal countries', and on the other hand, Mrs Oomen referred to 'we are four equal countries', and on the other hand, Mrs Oomen has just referred to 'we need to talk to people who are not the directors'. So that means that another country in the Netherlands can say: yes, there is a government here now and we are not going to assume the missionary status of the country, but we still have the idea that if that government talks to us, which does not represent the real opinion of the people; let us talk to other people than that real government. I think that we in the Netherlands would not tolerate that if another country would do that to us. Then why should we be allowed to do it in our three sister countries? So I guess I misunderstood you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u33	That's right, on a number of points. First of all, I said that in the Kingdom there is no equality between countries; countries are different, but we are equal partners. That is, I think, the factual observation. But the fact that one country has more power than the other is obvious, and more inhabitants, and more money and so on. Nor have you heard me argue that we should negotiate conditions through alternative channels. That seems to me to be a very undesirable structure. It is also a non-democratic structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u34	Nevertheless, Mr Recourt just said: you must of course continue to talk to people to know what is happening there. But that's exactly where the bottleneck is. We, you and I, are not about what's going on there. That is what Mr Recourt and Mr Van der Burg are talking about in the version. With the government it is even more nuanced, because you can still say: you have a Kingdom government and a cabinet that is only about the Netherlands. I am expressly not talking about BES. BES is just... the fourth country, the Netherlands, that's us. That's what you and I are about. We should not actually do that in this committee, but in the Committee on the Interior. They're ours, I'm just saying. But you and I are not about those three countries, because they have their own cabinet. There I still feel some tension in your speech. At least, of course, in Mr Recourt's speech, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u35	I don't feel that tension, because you're absolutely right. That's how the structure is. That does not mean that we, as representatives of the people, cannot address the Dutch Government on things that we think can be done better. That's what's happening. But you have not heard me argue that we should go around governments or do undemocratic things in other ways. What part of that did you try with me? That's what I'm looking for, because I didn't advocate it. I just said: let's be very careful not to push our friends off the stage, so that we can have an increasingly difficult conversation with each other. At the end of the day, we do not have a choice. They have to choose them on the other hand, in the countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u36	Finally, Mr. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u37	Once again, I do not therefore see Mr Recourt as a opposition to the debate. I'm trying to get his thoughts out so I can incorporate them into my mind or not. You're saying we need to move on to a different structure than we have now. Now we have four countries that are not equal but equal. If the cabinet in the Netherlands provides aid to the other three countries, you do not think that it should make the condition it has imposed, which these three countries have agreed to. But then you want more... sorry, that's a suggestion I shouldn't make. Then I think: then it seems as if we want to steer more in a different structure, in a different way than we do now. But that does not relate to the fact that they are four equal countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u38	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u39	Now I understand better what Mr Van der Burg is asking for, namely the Statute. We have arranged that at this time as you say it is settled. This is not so much based on the Antilles but on Indonesia's independence. I reread that the other day. That statute wrings. That is indeed the port of my contribution. I've thought about it for a long time. I thought, if we make the implementation better now, we can arrange it within that imperfect Statute. In the end, however, my group concludes that this Statute does not last 20 or 30 years. We really need to think about how we shape responsibilities better. Now the Netherlands is at the bar for more than the responsibility for this. That's the core of the wringing. You say: we are equal countries. Yeah, in theory, but in practice, there's tension on the line. When, for example, the Netherlands is legally responsible for the situation in prisons, but doesn't really have much to say about it, you have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u41	By the way, but that's another discussion, I'm really a big opponent of bringing BES into Home Affairs. But it might go a little far to have that discussion right now. I will go further on the proposal to investigate exactly what the impact of colonialism is on the current bad relationship and what the obstacles are. We all have many ancestors in our blood, all with a different relationship to colonialism. How you personally relate to colonialism is an individual process. That is not our political concern. But this is different for the countries of the Kingdom and their directors. Research into how colonialism such as this existed in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom continues in the administrative culture and in that difficult cooperation has not been done before. The impressive report Klinkende Koninklijksbanden from 2001 gives a great amount of relevant information and thus forms a good preliminary study, but had a much more limited research assignment. The follow-up study envisaged by the Labour Party Group is important for several reasons. First of all, from ethics. You have to account for your past, even if it isn't beautiful. Only then will there be room for a fresh start. We've got to move on. The dependence of the six islands of the Netherlands is great. That has also demonstrated the corona crisis.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The relationship between the Caribbean countries and the Netherlands is bad. Research can help reverse this negative undercurrent in the relationship and accelerate cooperation. It can also provide a reply for Dutch directors to the often unfounded criticism that the Netherlands is still acting as colonial power. In short, it makes the pink elephant of the Kingdom visible and discussable in the Chamber. This is necessary in order to improve the relationship between the countries. This in turn means that more results can be achieved for all residents, in particular those of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to prepare and finance such an investigation. Mr. Chairman. Today, I have limited myself to a number of major themes, to which the Secretary of State, including his outgoing state, can still give attention in the short term, namely the structure and relationship within the Kingdom. We are the Kingdom of Diversities. Some differences will always remain, but others need to be reduced. In the hope and expectation that the Secretary of State will respond positively to my group's questions, I look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u42	I would like to return to the investigation: you are asking the Secretary of State to set this in motion and prepare it. Can I say through you that it is very important that the other countries are involved in this? Because we're about to get an investigation into this past, in which other countries don't recognize themselves. Then I know what the end of the song is: then they keep their differences of opinion and we don't get any further. You ask the Secretary of State to set it in motion, and I hope that will be done in accordance with the interests of the other countries in the Kingdom. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u43	Oh, yeah. I even had that in my text first, but I took it out again, because it must be workable. Moreover, this is a debate with this government and not with the government of the other countries, so I can only ask this Secretary of State to do something. But that must of course be done in conjunction. You must avoid going into an endless debate about points and commas; it must be done now, but of course as much as possible in consultation. That is also in line with the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u44	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "The biggest crisis for us is the combination of socio-economic inequality and chronic diseases that affect especially poorer people and that are also underlying diseases for covid. Obesity, and therefore high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases: a huge problem here. If we do not get more equality in society, people in the lower classes will really not live healthier lives. They just can't do that. This requires a structural social transformation. And are we working on that? The answer is no." This was a quote from Izzy Gersenbluth, the government epidemiologist of Curaçao in his Volkskrant interview two days ago. In Curaçao it's really all hands on deck. The number of corona virus infections is rising rapidly, the hospital beds are full and there is a shortage of ic staff. Fortunately, the Netherlands is helping. But since 10-10-10, it's been said before, Curaçao is autonomous and it's about things like, for example, health care. But if it is to ask for help, we as the Netherlands must be there for our Kingdomies. Of course, the same applies to the other islands in the Caribbean. They help each other, too. There was also a very nice main editorial commentary in the Antilliaan Dagblad. We help each other in the Kingdom or as Queen Wilhelmina said in her radio speech in 1942, speaking of the Kingdom: "Supporting on its own strength but with the will to assist one another." Actually, that is also the essence of Paul Comencia's book, which Paul Rosenmöller mentioned in his introduction. Mr. Chairman. That quote by Gersenbluth highlights a number of issues which I would like to discuss in my contribution, such as administrative power, public health, economic prospects, poverty and so on. First of all, on the power of administration. In the run-up to the autonomy of 10-10-10 there was hope and optimism. The debt of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin was eliminated and from that date one would start with a clean slate. However, if, after more than ten years, we now look back at how the situation has developed, even before Corona entered, then we cannot ignore the fact that certain things have not been adequately taken up. This has been said before. Mrs. Gerkens mentioned it. It's small communities that have a lot of work to do. So it is not just a reproach, but it is an observation that, for example, the growing gap between rich and poor, the unhealthy life and the necessary strengthening of the rule of law are all kinds of issues that stand out and that really need to be properly regulated. And they are also subjects that the countries themselves are about. But as the Netherlands, you obviously want these problems to be dealt with thoroughly. And by the way, so do many people in those countries. They're desperate for good, good governance. So the question is of course also: how far can you, as the Netherlands, go in your incentives while respecting the autonomy of the other countries? When asked for financial help, D66 thinks it is logical that Dutch tax money is well spent and that structural changes are taking place that actually help societies in Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin and that they are also future-proof. Of course, each country differs, each country chooses its own approach, but quality standards must be met. An agreement has to be kept, also by the Netherlands. The proposed Caribbean Reform and Development Body (COHO) will have to become an important driver to help solve the problems that have arisen. But those plans for the COHO were emotionally received. It was perceived as an attack on autonomy. That has been bad for the support. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how he looks at that himself. What could have been better? How could we have prevented these reactions? In addition, the Council of State gave a critical opinion on the legal basis. On behalf of D66, I say that we think it is important that the Netherlands and the three countries work together to get out. Real objections must be taken into account taking into account everyone's interests, including those of the Netherlands. It is important that the three countries finally agreed to the COHO proposals and the corresponding country packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u46	I actually have two questions. One question is how Mr Dittrich's group looks at the question of whether the draft law is indeed in breach of the Statute. The second question is the following. I heard Mr Dittrich say that the three countries agreed to this draft law. But how did that agreement come about? You know compulsion, error and deception in civil law. It's a lot like compulsion, isn't it? I would also like a reflection from Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u47	Thank you for your questions. We're gonna have to discuss the bill here. So I want to go into that in detail in due course. But my next question to the Secretary of State, before your interruption, was how he looks at this whole process around the COHO. Can the objections raised by the Council of State be met, with the agreement of the three countries? That actually affects your question. Mr President, I see that time is running, but I am answering Mr Nicolaï's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u48	I just turned it on because I saw you were going to read to me. It's off now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u49	Thank you. But there's a lot to say about that. When I listen to the comments on the other side of the lake, I have the impression that this has really been experienced as a dictatorship and an attack on autonomy and that they were not really involved in all those conditions in the country packages. But I also note that the three governments have finally said to the Secretary of State: in the end, we agree. That's also something we shouldn't just throw in the trash. Once again, I ask the Secretary of State for a reflection on how the Dutch government has operated in his own person in this field of tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u50	I asked Mr Dittrich for a reflection. I'm very curious. You've also seen how it went. All these pieces are on the agenda. Think about the agreement, too. You can see what's in the agreement. You also know that there was little choice for the islands to say no. My question is: how does the D66 group see that? Is it an agreement or is it a coerced thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u51	Eventually, it's an agreement, but sometimes you can enforce an agreement. That is why it is also a matter of how the Secretary of State looks at the trial itself. But when I look, for example, at the country packages that are included, I see that there are a lot of issues that have been raised by the countries themselves and which have been discussed at official level. That's not something we should just ignore. I'm not standing here arguing for all the work to be done again. That would, I think, be a disservice to the people of the countries. We've got to move on. If I have listened carefully to Mr Recourt, I say that we must continue, but in a more equal way. We must listen carefully to each other, to the objections, and we must take them to heart. In this way, we must try to move forward, because we are all connected in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u52	You yourself say that it must be done in a more equal way. But the nice thing about an agreement is that you negotiate and then something happens between the parties. Do you really have the idea that this has been the subject... I therefore ask your opinion on the basis of the facts that you know. I am not asking what the Secretary of State is going to say about this, but what the D66 Group is saying about it. Has it been an equivalent situation in which two parties have been able to negotiate and reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u53	I understand you're asking me that question, but I'm still going to refer it to the Secretary of State. My analysis is that there is a lot of emotion on the other hand about what one experiences as a kind of dictatorship and an attack on one's own autonomy. You ask me: do you agree? Of course, I don't have all the data on that. I haven't been to those meetings. I can see that agreement has finally been reached. That may have happened with long teeth and with a lot of reluctance; I believe that immediately. I'd like to speak to the Secretary of State first... we'll check this Secretary of State the way he handled it. That is also my job as a Member of Parliament. That's why I'm asking these questions. I hope, in any case, that we can learn from that process. I hope that we will listen to each other much better in the future, in future negotiations and discussions, and that we will take into account what has been said. In this connection, a role can be played that, if one does not agree with something, one quickly resorts to words such as 'colonialism' or 'racism'. That is why I find Mr Recourt's proposal of the Labour Party to take a look at it. I do not want all the other necessary discussions to be put in the fridge and that we all focus on that. But that could play a role in order to achieve results in a more equal way in the future which are in the interests of the people there, because that is what this is all about in the end. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the state dispute settlement. I agree with those who have asked the Secretary of State when we will get an answer. In the discussions with colleagues across the ocean, it really appears that this dispute settlement is very important. Mr. Chairman. By COVID-19 It has already been remembered by others that tourism has collapsed and that has painfully revealed the need to diversify economic activities. Unemployment has increased enormously. Some 80,000 families have become dependent on food aid. There's poignant poverty behind the front door. As far as D66 is concerned, there is praise for the Red Cross, churches, civil society organisations and volunteers working for others, helping those who need it and making the most of it. The question is, of course, how do we proceed after the pandemic? In addition to tourism, there is also a need to find useful alternatives to economic activities. Of course, all kinds of plans have been made from the countries. I ask the Secretary of State how he sees the economic future of the countries and the Caribbean Netherlands. For Bonaire, of course, we have the board agreement. The question is what practical results have been achieved so far. We see opportunities for new economic activities for the concept of blue economy and blue destination of the world. Bonaire has a lot to offer in terms of natural beauty. The question to the Secretary of State is what is the state of play in the development of these plans. We note that there is a great deal of poverty in the BES islands, including among families and especially children. That is what the programme BES(t) 4 kids with the help of the Dutch government are aiming at. The question is, for the sake of clarity, what is the situation with regard to the roll-out of that programme? Mr. Chairman. As for St.Maarten, the damage caused by Hurricane Irma and the slow recovery is striking. The money is there, but the real smooth approach to reconstruction has been left behind. How is it that, in 2021, the first recovery of damaged schools has only started? What's the status of the resources used? Wouldn't it be better to transfer the remainder to the COHO in formation? Is the Secretary of State satisfied with the World Bank's commitment and what critical reflections on this choice can he share with us? After Irma, of course, the pandemic was rolled over Saint Martin. We have found that 11 members of the island council have filed a complaint against the Netherlands through a law firm in Washington at the United Nations, because racism would be at stake in setting conditions for aid. They believe that too much autonomy should be handed in. It is interesting to see that the people were surprised by this action and that no one was heard about it at St.Maarten before the issue was raised in the island council, while countless people on St.Maarten need help. Following the complaint, the Secretary of State suspended the aid and that raises questions for the D66 group, as it penalises the people. My question is whether there is really enough dialogue between Saint Martin and the government. What needs to be done in order to achieve a smooth understanding? Can the Secretary of State give us an update on the situation of Venezuelan refugees in Aruba and Curaçao? What about respect for human rights, fair asylum procedures and detention facilities? Finally, about Curaçao, I would like to ask: how can we revive our relationship with Curaçao now that there will be a new government? That government is most likely looking more distantly at the Netherlands and probably wants to renegotiate the COHO bill. But no matter how you turn it, Curaçao will remain dependent on the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. At the IPKO in January, we concluded that the parliaments of the four countries should communicate well with each other. This brings with it mutual contact and understands for the better. So my question is whether the government can also support that vision. Finally, I would like to say this. I have read in the documents that a major conference is coming with the four countries within the Kingdom. I think it is very important that elements such as colonialism, racism, are subjects that are being looked at there. I also think that cultural sensitivity is an element that needs to be taken into account. But in the end, we should not have to keep talking about political innovations and changes. After all, it is about what we can do to help people. What can we do for the people who are suffering from the corona pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u54	We have both expressed our congratulations in our contribution and, of course, made some critical comments here and there. Now let's take a look at the near future. You asked me the question about such a kingdom conference. We look at the challenges facing financial, economic and social issues, security and so on, in other words, issues that you have also raised. Are we also in agreement when I say that you should say to a new cabinet that there should be more priority in that Kingdom relationship? There is really an agenda to be created where there is more urgency to try to bridge that division, and to come more to that undivided Kingdom. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u55	I can answer that very briefly by saying yes. I think that's very important. It is perhaps something that should be achieved in a new coalition agreement. It should perhaps have more attention than in the previous coalition agreement, and I am not even right to use the word'maybe' here. But we have to do it in consultation with the countries there. That should then fall down in the coalition agreement here. Because we have to be careful that we write something down here in The Hague, and then say: yes, it is our coalition agreement and now we are going to do it. There must therefore be an interaction with the countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u56	We agree, and perhaps there is a large majority here. This could mean that we are starting this discussion in our relations, in parliamentarians' conferences and so on. But ultimately, the priority is of course determined by the government, read: by the government one. They're in the lead. We have this monitoring task, as Mr Dittrich quite rightly said. So we can make our contribution. We can make a ruling. But it would be a good start in itself if the new Dutch government took up this task. I think that's what binds us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u57	Yeah, that's very out of my mind; I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u58	Thank you. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to talk about KOREL, because there's an opinion from the Council of State. The government's gonna respond to that. I've seen the advice, too. Then I thought to myself, "God, at the Council of State there must be a lot of knowledge about the islands." We'll see what comes out of it, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. I am not going to talk about the dispute settlement either, because it is coming, I understood from the government a few weeks ago. So we'll have it on our plate soon. I think we can deal with that very quickly. What am I gonna talk about? The corona crisis is on top of the silent crisis that has occurred in the Caribbean region over the past decade. When we see that in Curaçao in particular people are more than full of a new outbreak, I would like to thank everyone who has gone there on the last weekend and is going to offer help; we appreciate that, despite everything, that part of the kingdom of the Netherlands is still doing a lot. Mr. Chairman. There are structural vulnerabilities in the Caribbean. Low economic growth, a high level of public debt............................................................................................................................................................. The economic impact of the covid crisis is large, extra large. Without outside help, things are much worse. A third of the 160,000 inhabitants of Curaçao were already below the poverty line before the corona pandemic. What makes it particularly vulnerable in the Caribbean is that the economies, on St.Maarten, on Curaçao and also on Aruba, are particularly dependent on tourism. Just let it be that tourism is one of the biggest victims of this pandemic. I also see that so many people, say only 20% of the families on the islands, are dependent on food aid. Food aid which is being provided, which is paid by the Netherlands, and which is coordinated by the Red Cross with a lot of volunteers. I want to thank them incredibly for everything they do. Food aid, that's one thing, but you should also know that when there is poverty, there are other problems. That's what you see in those countries. There are increasing relational problems. There's violence, violence against children, too. There is insufficient care for children. There is also a growing crime among young people. The vaccine is in sight. I just heard that Curaçao is being tried to vaccinate as soon as possible. Nevertheless, in order to get the economy back on its feet, additional support measures will be needed. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he handles that. The municipalities, the BES, are also in a difficult situation. Here too, corona breaks the local economy. Therefore, there is a support and recovery package until 2030 as it has been extended. I wonder how this will continue, even after 1 July. As with Dutch municipalities, it is up to local democracy to formulate its own ambitions and make choices. If people are always sufficiently aware of this, I wonder. Mr. Chairman. It has been said here several times. On the islands there is discontent. The election winner in Curaçao wants new negotiations. There is discontent and unrest on Aruba. The government in Saint Martin has expressed its displeasure in the form of a petition to the United Nations in which it accuses us of colonialism. I wonder, how do we get out of here? Can the Secretary of State take us with him? I say again: it is important now and also to the future that we find each other in the Kingdom. After all, we are closely linked in history with the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, the autonomous countries of Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten, and Bonaire, St.Eustatius and Saba, which have the status of a municipality. Mr. Chairman. When the virus began to disrupt the islands, we jumped in. That's the way it's supposed to be. The National Council of Ministers also discussed the question of how to proceed after 2021. I would also like to comment on that. Mr. Chairman. I've seen the government request advice from the AIV. It is an absolutely excellent report that was published in September last year. What I see there, contrary to what a number of colleagues are saying here, is that this AIV says with a lot of experts that there is no point in amending the Statute once again. There's no point. However, they recommend that Article 43 (2) of that Statute be used effectively if internal order is to be established on grounds of civil liberties at stake or governance at stake. That this governance culture is under pressure in those parts of the Kingdom, you can actually hear them say too little here. I think it is appropriate to discuss this issue with the democratic bodies there too. Mr. Chairman. The report of the AIV proved to be so comprehensive that the National Council of Ministers responded to it. It has also said that you should allow the application of Article 43 (2). The government has responded to that. I wonder, what are you doing with all the other recommendations in that report? Can the Secretary of State inform us about this? Mr. Chairman. Within the Kingdom, we have solidarity and solidarity. We've seen that in recent years... so I admire the Secretary of State. That's not because he's a county partner or because he's a member of my party, but I admire the way he's been trying to get through that. It's a way of making things clearer. I also admire that and I believe that this should be done on the basis of more responsibility from the democracies there. I think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u60	I was pleased to see that Mrs Oomen gave more attention to the AIV report, because I share with her the breadth but also the appreciation for what was produced under the direction of Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. Does it also agree with the recommendation that, inter alia, security and geopolitical considerations, but also, as the AIV says, "the elaboration of a long-term socio-economic plan for the Caribbean countries" should lead to the recommendation that Kingdom relations should be given a higher priority in government policy? Does she agree with the AIV? That's what I advocated myself. I am looking for a form of consensus in this Chamber, in order to record that, with all due respect to the Secretary of State, in a subsequent cabinet period, similar to the way in which Mr Dittrich interpreted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u61	I have said this: how is the Secretary of State or Government doing? take up the other recommendations made in this report? I think it's about eight. 'Cause I liked that one, too. We don't have to pick out one thing. I hear colleagues saying that amendments to the Staff Regulations are needed, but the AIV clearly states that they are not necessary. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u62	Yes, I agree with you, by the way. So that creates a bond, but I just want to get back. Of course, you always look at the coherence of the recommendations. But if, in such a general recommendation, I mention her for the last time, 'a higher priority' et cetera, and if you mention it with such agreement, is it not too much to ask your group to give this element to the next government too? You might just be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u63	What I could say is that we should all take the recommendations made by the AIV and look at them all. That would be my answer. I'm not in favour of getting a specific recommendation out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u64	It is interesting that Mrs Moonen refers to Rule 43...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u65	It's Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u66	Excuse me, Mrs. Oomen. That M was in the wrong direction for a second. I know Mrs. Oomen is with the CDA. It referred to Article 43 which states that "each country shall ensure the achievement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and the soundness of governance." Paragraph 2 states: "The Kingdom shall be responsible for ensuring these rights, freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration." Guaranteeing the integrity of the administration is therefore something that we as the Kingdom should be concerned about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u67	Make kunnen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u68	... when it comes to the Netherlands and when it comes to the other countries. Is this not the way the cabinet should have gone if it is concerned about the implementation of the liquidity support packages that have been given? If you say that the credibility of the administration is not yet sufficiently guaranteed and that you want reforms, shouldn't you simply apply Article 43 instead of setting up a COHO and setting conditions for countries to sign on the cross at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u69	Mr Nicolaï is tying things together here that do not deserve this knot. Article 43 (2) concerns a situation in which there is no proper administration or human rights are at stake. At that time, it is a matter for the Kingdom to intervene. I feel like it happened two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u70	Does Mrs Oomen agree with me that if you look at the scope of this COHO and what is further in the letter from the Secretary of State, it is a matter of reform in such a way that financial policy, economic policy and the sound administration are better guaranteed? Could you not say that that is exactly what would have been the way under Article 43 (2) of the Statute instead of forcing it through the road that has now been followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u71	No, I don't. Why don't I see it that way? Because Article 43 (2) has been made so that the Kingdom intervenes when things do not go well in governance, governance, the guarantee of human rights etc., etc. That's what that article was made for. The COHO is something else. These are commitments made in the Kingdom on the way in which support is given and the necessary reforms are being implemented. That has nothing to do with this article; sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u72	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u73	I barely remember where I was. I have already said that the government has promoted and also steered clarity on the islands, and has sometimes also steered hard. I also think that was necessary often. Mr. Chairman. We note that considerable investment has been made and that the Ministry of the Interior has coordinated a great deal to solve some of the problems, including poverty, which we have often discussed here. I have also seen that by increasing the financial scope by increasing the free allowance for the BES, self-reliance, freedom of policy and hence the bureaucracy of The Hague can be reduced. On this point too, reducing bureaucracy from The Hague in relation to the islands, we must do something. Mr. Chairman. Then reduce poverty and raise the social minimum. We need to see how it works out, but at least something's been done. Then there are still opportunities to strengthen the earning capacity. I would like the Secretary of State to respond to this, not only for the BES, but also for the parts of the Kingdom. After all, I am asking for the ability to earn, and that requires reform. Ultimately, the goal of all of us in the Kingdom is that there is a real autonomy of the parts of our Kingdom, that people can earn their own bread, that they can see that their children grow up in a part of the Kingdom that has real right to exist and that they can also see that there is a good culture and that the country in which they live is a country where justice and peace reign for all and not for a small club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I call Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. I shouldn't have been standing here, but Annemarie Jorritsma was supposed to be here. She is also the one who went to the Antilles with Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Oomen, among others. You know why she was busy last week. It is a pity, because we were going to have this debate with each other on the occasion of the big visit last year. That couldn't go on because of corona. It's been postponed twice by now. We understand why this debate has been chosen. We also share those considerations and have agreed to them, but it still feels a little uncomfortable. But not having the debate also feels uncomfortable. My approach will be different in some respects from that of other speakers. I share the concerns that I have heard many people express here, but in part I see no difference between the three islands that are a municipality a few thousand kilometres away and the five municipalities that are islands here at the top of the European part of the Netherlands. In the first instance, the political representatives are responsible, especially when it comes to our three sister countries. I very much share the emotion and feeling, but I do think at first: the responsibility for what is happening in the other countries is not with us. When it comes to the three municipalities, I try to look at the municipalities as much as possible, with one explicit exception, but I will come back to that in a moment. My compliments on what the Secretary of State has done over the past four years. The complicated thing is, he's a missionary right now. This complicates the question of where we are going in the future for the Secretary of State. The same goes for the outgoing cabinet we have in Curaçao. I would ask for a reflection from the Secretary of State immediately, because I feel that the outcome of the Curaçao elections, which we naturally respect, will not automatically make his work much easier in the coming period. It may be too early to be able to respond to Aruba already. That also has a very different context. We should definitely stay away from the question of why. I would almost say that it is not up to the Secretary of State or this Chamber. It's mostly internal, but we're gonna have to deal with it. Sint-Maarten has often been said here that the relationship is not very good, partly in the light of the accusations that have been made. As far as I am concerned, these accusations do not say anything about the Secretary of State and his actions in this matter, but rather about the politicians who made those accusations. This isn't the way you're supposed to be sleeping with each other. Mr Nicolaï has asked some of us what we find and then comes up with the story of the agreement. We have concluded an agreement with the countries; however you turn it or turn it. Either you don't shut it down and you can do whatever it takes, or you can lock it down, and then you can take care of it. You're not gonna say after closing, but we're gonna go to the UN now. Actually, it doesn't make any sense what you do. Then you shouldn't have made a deal. And yes, I do see a big problem. I too believe that some things are not in the interests of the people of Saint Martin. But that's not up to me. That's not up to us. The Secretary of State isn't about that. That's what the politicians at St. Martin's are about. As far as the VVD is concerned, it's very clear. The reforms that have been agreed must be implemented. The link with the 18 million Sint-Maarten is still entitled to, should therefore not be called into question as far as the VVD is concerned. At least I'll ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with the VVD. So I'm not comparing it to a mother who's imposing reforms on her daughter. You also hear me talking about the sister countries. However, I would like to compare the reforms imposed on countries within Europe in the context of the corona budgets that are or are being made available there. These are also equal countries. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt just said that the Statute cannot last another 20 or 30 years in this way. But I fear, Mr Recourt, that it will. We are not going to discuss the dispute settlement in detail today, but we have been working on it for 11 years. I do not know whether we are going to complete this year's statement by the Secretary of State in a good way, in the light of the situation we are now in. Before I go into that dispute settlement, something else. I very much agree with Mr Rosenmöller, who says that, without criticizing the Secretary of State, we should pay more attention to the Kingdom's relations. Then I'm talking about both the four and the three, if you know what I mean. I also think that we should not only look at the fact that on Curaçao there is an unfriendly government in the Netherlands, they are doing strange things on Saint Martin and now there are accusations in Aruba. No. They too may have some reflections on the fourth country, that is us and things that we are not doing right. So that's what you have to talk about in equal terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u76	I think I agree with Mr Van der Burg that we will probably be stuck with the same Statute in 20, 30 years' time. But that does not relieve us of the obligation to think about what that Kingdom should look like in 20, 30, as far as I am concerned, 40 years. Some vision of "that way has to go" and "that's how we're gonna set it up" and "that's the result we want" I think we should all develop as parties. My question to the VVD is: with or without the Statute, is that thought there? Is the Kingdom still identically furnished in 20 years' time? Or do we have a different shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u77	I assume that neither the Kingdom nor the country of the Netherlands will be identical to now in twenty years' time. I hope that we will continue to learn and improve. However, I would like to point out how complicated it is to talk about the statutes if the dispute settlement has been a thing for 11 years. Because that too is not something that you and I can and want to impose on those other three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u78	I agree with that, too. That's why we've been walking around the Statute for a long time. We think that's never gonna work out, because you're not gonna get it changed and you're gonna have to row with the belts you have. But my group is starting to doubt whether this is going to make you naive. Although with a longer-term perspective, you have to think about: can't it be otherwise and should it not be otherwise? 'Cause it's muddy now. My final question is then: is the VVD, together with the Labour Party and possibly other parties, willing to use that route? Not for the next cabinet period, but let's talk to the other countries about how we see the Kingdom in twenty years' time and what form of state fits in with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u79	Talking is good, useful and necessary, I think, so in that the VVD and the Labour Party find each other. It is complicated, however, that is the tension I have tasted with you, with Mr Dittrich and also with myself, no misunderstanding about it. On the one hand, we want to turn our concerns into action, while our circle of involvement is much greater than our circle of influence. We should not want to interfere in certain matters, because others have been appointed to do so. That's the tension I'm feeling. I also feel a great deal of tension with countries in Europe. Then I also think: we have to do this differently, we have to do it better, we can do it better, and yet I do not think that we should interfere. It is a bit of the tension I am running into, I say to the President, with the intention that Mr Recourt hears it too. The dispute settlement will hopefully be discussed, Mr President. Sorry, it's my vocal band, but that's not something to worry about, at least you don't, I do. I will leave that dispute settlement for a moment, but we must get to grips with it quickly, also in the context of the discussion I just had with Mr Recourt and the wishes expressed by Mr Rosenmöller. Then the corona crisis. Curaçao has it by far the hardest, not only in the Kingdom but even literally in the world, you might say. It is good that you see solidarity, and not just from the Netherlands, in the sense that we send extra ampoules and nurses go that way and so on. Aruba, a country that is also in an economic crisis, is now showing solidarity, by opening extra ic-beds and seeing what they can do. No misunderstanding about what I just said about Saint Martin. This also applies, of course, to Aruba and to Curaçao, when it comes to the necessary reforms. At the same time, as far as we are concerned, emergency aid is obviously not under discussion. What needs to be done is what needs to be done, because the consequences are extremely great. I am talking not only about the short-term effects of corona, but also about the economic consequences. The economies have completely collapsed due to the disappearance of tourism. You and I live on the assumption that at the moment that things are going well in the Netherlands, things are going well again soon, because we simply have the organizational power, and also the means, let us be clear about that, to recover quickly. That's really different in the Antilles. That means that we really need to see how we can help our sister countries in that. Again, but linked to the reforms. Emergency assistance remains necessary. But I would also urge the Secretary of State to reflect on the reconstruction of the economy, especially in the BES islands. I liked what Mr Rosenmöller just did when he talked about the BES islands, because he was talking about 'our people'. We must be very clear about this: BES, that is us. BES is similar to any other municipality in the Netherlands. That's what we're about. That's our people. Finally, Mr President, in view of the time, I would like to dwell on Saint-Eustatius. I said BES is different, because they're municipalities. But Eustatius is also different from the other two. As Mr Rosenmöller said, we had to intervene, almost three years ago. It was special that we did that. It is also extremely intense what we did then. But it was necessary to achieve good and reliable governance. I would like to hear the reflections of the Secretary of State, how he is now assessing the situation, partly in the light of the fact that Mr Van Rij, whom we had entrusted with this task, is now returning to the Netherlands as a matter of urgency. What does that mean for the dynamics? Finally, Mr President, that really needs to be said, in the last 40 seconds I have, and I'm skipping a piece, given the time. There are enormous problems, particularly in Aruba and Curaçao, with regard to the refugees, and I am referring above all to the Venezuelans. We really need to do something with that. We have a responsibility in that too. The complex thing is that, even here in speech use, we are talking about'refugees' when they are not in their definition, with the consequences that this also has for the lesser rights that this creates than if they were formally recognised as refugees. But at the same time, it is a crisis that is too great for Aruba and for Curaçao to act, and so we must also see what role we can play in helping our sister countries. Certainly in the area of health care, but also in other areas, we will really have to do so. Mr President, I will leave it at that before you shut me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u80	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Who will show us the good?'. You can find that question in the Bible, in Psalm 4. It's about King David, if it's not so good with his country. Who will make us see the good? Well, I do stand here with a heavy heart. We are conducting a policy debate on the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, and Caribbean Netherlands: Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. And a policy debate takes place, among other things, on the policy of the Ministry in question, and of course also on whether it is all in order, what should be improved, whether the Kingdom of the Netherlands is well governed. But that's what we're gonna do while we're in a torn-up situation ourselves. The elections in the European part of the Kingdom, i.e. in the Netherlands, have gone well, but the chaos that has now arisen around the formation of a new cabinet, which will have a special responsibility for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, must make us very modest. Again and again we look at the Caribbean with our so-called sovereign gaze, because, oh, how weird the Curaçao elections were. And how will it be on Aruba later? In the meantime, however, we have created a complete situation here in the Netherlands, so serious that Mr Van Rij has to come back, so I say to Mr Van der Burg. The parties are moving through the House of Representatives; the mutual trust has fallen to an absolute low; the interpersonal relations have been severely damaged; qualifications about the administrative culture in the Netherlands are shameful; the formation is frozen. And to start a policy debate on the other parts of the state, I find it complicated. However, perhaps this is also the time to show what the Senate is for, namely: for reflection, for keeping quiet, regardless of the delusion of the day. And so the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not run away from today's debate. But we do fit some modesty. Well, it is a pity that the KOREL committee could not go to the Caribbean to personally get acquainted with these areas. And what a good thing it was that the chairman of our committee, Mr Rosenmöller, was trying to organise a number of talks in the last few months of 2020. Thank you for that, which at least gave us an insight into the situation on the ground. And in those conversations, which I was able to attend in part, I have always asked the same question: how does the Church contribute to the situation of poverty or crises? And remarkable were the positive reactions. That doesn't mean anything to the Secretary of State. My group once asked him written questions about cooperation with the churches, particularly in the field of poverty. The reaction at the time was at least a bit economical. Can the Secretary of State indicate if more cooperation has been sought with churches in the fight against poverty? This situation of poverty is all the more pressing during the current corona pandemic. If corona strikes in the Netherlands, we now have, I believe, 75 billion on the shelf to invest extra. How much money have we spent on the islands by now, I ask the Secretary of State. Can he tell us how this aid to these overseas territories was designed? How did it get knocked down by the population? How did it help to promote resistance and strengthen resilience? Are there any parallels in this respect with previous disasters that the islands have undergone? I am thinking of Hurricane Irma a few years ago, who struck St.Maarten, St.Eustatius and Saba in particular. That accumulation of disaster should make us extra alert. Mr. Chairman. Another thing about the Small-Scale Report requires support, in which it concerns the BES islands, i.e. the Caribbean Netherlands, in relation to the European Netherlands. In the general recommendations, this report leads to a rather disconcerting conclusion. I read there: the need for human and financial support for the islands is, to a large extent, structural. The following paragraph describes how to respond to this need. I quote again: 'However, on the European-Dutch side, this support is being over-filled on an ad hoc basis, often in the event of imminent situations or incidents. That's far from ideal. A more structural involvement and support prevents incident politics." End quote from this report. The recommendation is then made to the European Netherlands that the government's support should be structured with expertise and resources rather than ad hoc. My question to the government is how it is given substance. Is there going to be a plan of action? How long can this have been achieved? Will the Secretary of State undertake to set this out in a timetable and inform this Chamber of its plans and progress? On the other hand, the overseas territories like to have financial support, but do not want too much interference from the European Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is working on a good balance between interference and financial support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u82	At this point. When we spoke to one of our colleagues from Aruba, he told us that they created a legislative academy there to train civil servants to do all the legislative work. Of course, that's a long-term thing. My question to you is: do you think it is a good approach to invest in the country itself in training people who can do all the work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u83	Who would be against that? I think it is always a good thing to be as close as possible to the situation where something is needed, to train people and to work people who are not dependent on what might be offered at thousands of kilometres away. It's always good to have that in the house or get it in the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u84	I am asking because the analysis is, of course, that there is a great deal going on in a country, in this case Aruba, and that all kinds of legislative proposals need to be made. It's a small pool of people who actually have to do everything. If, for example, they also have to go to the Netherlands to take all kinds of courses, the lavage becomes very thin. That is why I think it is important that we invest in our own training programmes, with the support of the Netherlands, so that we are better prepared for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u85	That's the interesting thing about that report I just referred to, Small scale requires support. That is exactly the problem Mr Dittrich is pointing out. It is so small, not only physically but also in terms of numbers of people available for all kinds of subjects. That is why it is fine if we also support in the fields of education, training and so on. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what the plan is now based on the report that came out here in March 2021, Small scale needs support. This is about the BES islands; Aruba is something else. I would like to see what the Dutch Government, the European part, can do to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u86	Like you, I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u87	Yes, we are happy to wait for that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question of a very different order. A few years ago, there was talk at St.Eustatius of "in the words of the Secretary of State at the time in our Chamber" lawlessness, financial maladministration, discrimination, intimidation, threats, insults, arbitrariness and the pursuit of personal power. It was quite a zipper back then. I indicated at that time that I would very much like to make a three-step approach to this: to stabilise, normalize and democratize. Can the Secretary of State, if he looks back now, give an insight into these three key words: stabilising, normalizing and democratizing? In other words, how does he indicate the state of play at the moment? Mr. Chairman. Of course, a single thought on the so-called dispute settlement. There has recently been an oral consultation with the Secretary of State. He indicated that more clarity could be provided within a few weeks, also in relation to the legislative proposals concerning the National Financial Supervision Act and the COHO. Can he indicate the current state of affairs? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would be very grateful if the dispute settlement could finally be resolved. Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with a biblical question: who will make us see the good? Fortunately, the Bible also gives answers, in this case immediately, in the same psalm and even in the same verse. It says, "You lift up the light from your face upon us, O Lord." I see this not only as an answer, but also as a confession: God reigns and we must do our work in dependence on Him. This applies to the three countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, the public bodies Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba, and this also applies, and perhaps most importantly, to our own homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest to Mr Recourt's speech. Mr Recourt and I share something. Mr Recourt has lived and worked in Aruba for four years and has also been on the other islands. I myself, even before Aruba got the status separate, made a draft bill for Betico Croes on legal protection against the government. That was the beginning of the eighties. After that, I have done regular legislative activities there, so I know the island. Mr Recourt and I also share the surprise about how it went in the summer of 2020, how Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, who are just countries in our Kingdom, have been pressured to accept conditions. Mr Recourt mentioned hostility. He even mentioned the word "dictatate." I have also listened with interest to others here. I heard they said c'est le ton qui fait la musique. It will not surprise you: I am not going to talk about the tone, but about the question of the legality of what has happened. Mrs Oomen, here behind me, asked: but what is it like in the Netherlands? Then I thought: that is exactly the question that needs to be addressed. How would that go in the Netherlands? So I've come up with an example. It's a made-up example of this: I say that directly with a municipality here in the Netherlands, far away from Limburg by the way; I let the example be played in Den Helder. If we're going to talk about legality, then you can do a nice review there. In Den Helder there will be a municipal ombudsman. The Council Regulation lays down his remuneration. I'm gonna say right away, he's gonna be in a crazy high pay grade. It is whispered that all this has not gone pure. Not long after that, a report will also be published showing that for years the municipal administration has commissioned lawyers and accountants to pay bizarrely high fees. So the next scandal is born, and especially if it turns out that the city council has approved all of this. And then it turns out that a municipal swimming pool has been tendered at bizarrely high prices. Mr. Chairman. A Member of the House of Representatives, it is still an example and fabricated... asks questions about yet another questionable issue in North Holland. Not Limburg, in Noord-Holland. The Minister says to investigate how she can best intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u90	In interruptions by Mr Nicolaï to others, I understood that his criticism related to the fact that we had imposed demands on the other countries in the context of reforms linked to the aid we provided. He is now coming up with the example of Den Helder. Does Mr Nicolaï agree with me that you should compare Den Helder with three BES municipalities, but cannot compare it with three countries? Because if you do, you'll appreciate the three countries to no more than one municipality, while they're equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u91	I fully agree with Mr Van der Burg on that last point. I would like to cite the example as an illustration of a situation in which the question of legality, which I believe has also been raised here, is raised. At least the unlawfulness. This will also be reflected in the follow-up to my speech. So if Mr.Van der Burg can listen for a while, then I will come to the essence of my story why I took the municipality of Den Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u92	That's an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u93	I hear that invitation, Mr President, so at least I won't be doing a third interruption. I'm doing you a favor, too. But at least I hope that Mr Nicolaï will accept the invitation to make a comparison between Den Helder and, for example, the municipality, one of the three islands, where we have intervened. I think they should compare your congregations. At Saint-Eustatius we did intervene. Doesn't it become clear in your further story that you have to compare Sint-Eustatius with Den Helder or any other municipality in the Netherlands, and that you shouldn't compare the three countries with a municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u94	My story is not about that, as Mr Van der Burg will see if he waits a little longer. My story is about whether a government can provide financial support...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u95	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u96	... and may impose conditions and in what situation that is unlawful. I will continue my speech. I have now mentioned the example of Den Helder. So there's obviously a lot going wrong there. And then in my example came the corona crisis. And then the municipalities came in great financial need. And then millions more went to municipalities to pay for implementation costs, emergency care for children, compensation for missed rent from sports clubs and much more. That went to all those municipalities. That also went to the municipality of Den Helder. And when it comes, I say to Mr Van der Burg, in my imaginary example, the Minister said to the municipality of Den Helder: you need that corona support. We both know you can't take care of the population without that support. So sign here by the cross. Salary Ombudsman down, no recourse to accountants and lawyers without my permission and the construction of the pool is off. And if you don't sign, the Bright people can whistle for our help. Mr. Chairman. It's called power politics. But we live in a country where justice reigns. So the question arises: can this corona support to Den Helder be made dependent on cooperation in an area that has nothing to do with the use of that aid? In the case of grants and earmarked financial support, you may impose legal conditions, but those conditions must serve the interest for which the grant or aid is granted. In the absence of that link, the condition is unlawful. Then, in legal jargon, it testifies to misuse of jurisdiction. This is even expressly prohibited in Article 3:3 of the General Administrative Law Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u97	That's an interesting example. But let's do that. The city council in Den Helder meets with the college of mayor and aldermen and says: "Damn, now we have this letter from the minister and he says this and that in it. But, yeah, maybe she's right. Let's just sign at the cross. Let's not do that pool for a while and let's take that salary down." That is a democratic decision. How does that fit in with the idea that that would be unlawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u98	Then the city council as a parliament might think that the minister had good arguments. But that's not my question. My question is whether the government, the minister, can set those conditions and say: you will only receive that support if those conditions are met. That's one. Two. In this way, we are talking about the linking of corona support to Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao. The agreement that has been signed is not an agreement which has been discussed with the People's Party. The agreement there was simply signed and then simply imposed as a dictation, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. I'll take the land of Aruba. No, sorry, I'll come back to the example. These were conditions aimed solely at enforcing measures. Excuse me, no, all the way back, so Den Helder can walk to the judge. Then it's got the judge on its side. He will condemn the Minister's attitude as an abuse of power. The municipality of Den Helder can go to court, because in our state system that municipality has a recognised legal position. Then to the corona aid to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. These countries also had to sign with the cross and had to accept far-reaching conditions that were not directly related to the use of the corona help packages. These were conditions aimed solely at enforcing measures which the Netherlands considered desirable. Think of the reduction of civil servants' salaries, the maximation of top incomes, the implementation of reforms and the fulfilment of wishes that the Dutch government had already expressed on a number of occasions, but which were not met to annoy the Netherlands. I'll take the land of Aruba. This has been a separate country for 35 years, like the Netherlands, in relation to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, with independence guaranteed by the Statute. It is a country with its own democratically elected parliament, with its own national regulation on the remuneration of civil servants, with its own national regulation on the admission of foreign nationals and with its own regulation of its own coastguard and police. So own laws, as we have our own laws in the Netherlands. And what did that country hear in July last year? "You will only receive corona support if your people's representatives amend some of the laws they have passed. Those are changes we want: pay down, change the regime so that family members of State officials are automatically admitted to the country of Aruba. Please read the conditions and adjust the rules for the Coast Guard and the National Criminal Court in such a way that they can provide independent criminal intelligence." Those are terms that had to be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u99	I still do not understand why Mr Nicolaï Den Helder, a municipality, has not made that clear to a country like Aruba. His example goes wrong too, because Den Helder is already bound by the laws and regulations that apply in the Netherlands. Thus, the example of overpaid wages above the WNT is not possible under the laws and regulations at all. In this sense, the example does not apply. Mr Nicolaï also said: but the deal is not concluded with the representatives of the people in those countries, but with the directors in those countries. But is it not customary for governments to make deals with governments and not with elected representatives? In that sense, is it not correct? That's one. And two. Poland also has all the characteristics you have just described with regard to Aruba: its own parliament, its own government, I think also its own coastguard and more of those things. If you do not think it is justified, I would ask the Animal Party that, from the rest of Europe, we ask Poland for certain reforms at a time when they put a question to the rest of Europe? For example, think about the lhbti discussion, but it can also be another example. I could also come up with one in the field of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u100	Mr Van der Burg is making serious mistakes in his mind. A country like Poland is a state. We have the State of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and of that State a number of countries are part of it. There's the big difference. Those countries which, according to the Staff Regulations, are part of this Statute have their own independent position within it, as clearly stated in the Constitution of the Netherlands. Mr Van der Burg forgets that. That's one. Two. The government of Aruba had to sign something. She did. But what does it say? What is the government's commitment to? For example, by 15 September 2020, Aruba will ensure the entry into force of an amended country regulation for admission, expulsion and expulsion, so that family members of State officials are automatically admitted to Aruba. So the government would be obliged that the parliament should amend a law in force there in accordance with the wishes of the Dutch Government. I can give you a lot of examples. If Mr. Van der Burg reads through the pieces, he will encounter a lot of such examples. In my opinion, that is where the pain and the feeling of dictation lies. A cross is being placed, under duress, in an agreement which actually means that representatives of the people must amend their laws to ensure that the Netherlands believes that this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u101	That's a big misunderstanding, isn't it? Aruba didn't have to sign at all, just as the Netherlands didn't have to give the money. Only at some point will you make a deal with each other: I'll give you this and you'll get this in return. But Aruba, Saint Martin or Curaçao could also have said: we are not doing this and we are talking to someone else to get resources. So Mr Nicolaï's duty is absolutely wrong. There was no legal obligation on the Government of Aruba to sign. That's one. Two. It is not surprising that governments negotiate with each other and come to a deal that they then have to submit to parliaments, where parliaments then have to change national or local regulations on the basis of the deal that has been made by governments. Does Mr Nicolaï agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u102	I think this is getting past the point. The point is that it was clear to all parties, and I hope, for the VVD Group too, that the countries that had to put that cross there could not move forward without that help, which had to come quickly. If Mr Van der Burg agrees with me on this, I think it is a bit different, but let me use the word'separate' which he says: there was a free negotiation and a signature of an agreement. I think that is very different from the way we look at the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u103	Please continue your argument, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u104	My argument was that the Dutch Government imposed conditions and that it had to be obeyed. The conditions imposed were 0.0 related to the implementation of the corona support packages. These were conditions which, from a legal point of view, should not be attached to this aid. And Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin were staggering, because what happened? The term "recolonization" was used. Those who remain sober begin with the observation that the Dutch Government has abused its powers, and I remain so. However, in the light of the Statute, it is not possible to avoid the question of whether such abuse of power does not deserve the term'recolonisation'. The first paragraph of Article 41 of the Statute states that "the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are independent representatives of their own affairs." If we feel that civil servants' salaries are too high here in the Netherlands, if we find it regrettable that, according to the Aruban regulations, the State official is not automatically entitled to have his family members present, if we find it annoying that the Aruban Coast Guard and the National Criminal Court are able to provide criminal intelligence to the Aruban authorities, and not directly to our services, do we not simply agree to this under Article 41 of the Staff Regulations? In this respect, we do not have the right to impose our will on the Aruban legislator. Mr. Chairman. The conditions that had to be accepted before the people of those islands were helped went even further. Each of these countries had to agree that there would be a Caribbean body for reform and development, the COHO. That's what they had to sign for. It's a strange bird who's gonna boss them around. In the opinion of the Council of State, that bill was broken down. The Council of State considered that it was contrary "to the principle of autonomy of the countries, and in particular to the reluctance of the Kingdom Government and the Netherlands to act as the largest country in limiting the country's own responsibility." Mr. Chairman. Anyone who takes the "statutory principles," as the Council of State calls it, seriously does not come up with a COHO that, as the Council of State writes, "is largely under the direction of the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is placed above the governments of the countries"? The main editorial comment of July 14, 2020 in the NRC headlined "Retroduction Dutch government." I quote from that comment. "The corona crisis used as a means of power against a asking party in difficulty. It's a form of powerplay that usually doesn't benefit the proportions." Powerplay between different states, Mr. Van der Burg, is a common game. But these are relations between four countries which together form part of one State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u105	Would you like to finish, Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u106	These countries are in a legal context and have an internal legal position vis-à-vis each other. So it's not power, it's justice. The establishment of conditions for packages of aid which have nothing to do with the importance of those packages of aid is legally unlawful. And conditions contrary to Article 41 of the Statute are also unlawful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u108	The First Chamber stands for the rule of law and legality. That is why we do not escape to refer this to the government. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with my questions. Can the Secretary of State explain the direct link between, on the one hand, the importance of achieving humanitarian aid and, on the other hand, the enforcement of amendments to Aruban country regulations governing the admission of family members of State officials, or those relating to the way in which the Aruban police services should exchange criminal data? My second question concerns the setting of conditions as set out in the proposal to the National Council of Ministers of 10 July 2020. Are they not contrary to the principle of the prohibition of misuse of powers enshrined in administrative and state law? Finally, does the government share the view of the Council of State that the COHO draft is at odds with the Statute? I look forward to the reaction with interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u109	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did the voter before the election again. There was an interesting question, namely: should the Netherlands make excuses for slavery history? Then I thought, "Is that another discussion point?" In any case, it is a point for me to point out at the first debate which might relate to that, that I apologise as a parliamentarians in any case. So in that sense a personal remark at the beginning of my speech. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote from an e-mail I received this morning from a resident of the Saint-Eustatius, a former Marine in Defense. The e-mail ends with a story, namely: "In short, I think the intervention, however understandable the reason was, has been totally mishandled. The content of the intervention has never focused on a better relationship with the European Netherlands and on better local governance. The approach was purely material and was also completely disrespectful over the Eustatians and flattened them. In the future, let a new cabinet and a new composition of the House of Representatives come up with a better plan." Thus a little uplifting response to the management crisis on Saint-Eustatius of an old servant of the Dutch Navy and current resident of Saint-Eustatius. The response also reflects the feeling that the OSF Group has in this debate: too comprehensive, too late, too distant. You know, Mr President, what "toe" stands for is never really good, except "satisfied," but you cannot be satisfied with this dossier so far. Look at what is going on and what is not yet agreed or for which there is no mutually agreed solution. Aruba's cabinet quit last Friday because of the embezzlement of public money. There is still a declaration by Saint Martin, carried by twelve of the fifteen members of the parliament there. That declaration is with the United Nations. That's not the least thing in the world. The report is about the racist behaviour of the Netherlands. The Human Rights College has been drawing attention to the problem of poverty on the islands since 2016 in order to tackle this significantly. There is, as I read in a section in the Volkskrant, an unemployment rate among young people in Curaçao of more than 40%. We have all learned of an exorbitant outbreak of covid on Curaçao, despite, by the way, that three weeks ago in the same newspaper it said that it was all quite well done on Curaçao. In addition, there is a time factor. The pressure is very high. No time to waste, says the Red Cross. They have sent us a message about this, parliamentarians. They would like to transfer humanitarian aid on 1 May. At the same time, with all these problems, there is another outgoing cabinet. This cannot be a new policy, which will result in a great deal of time being wasted this year. Only yesterday was the issue of the resignation of the government Commissioner Marnix van Rij, which for the time being allowed the administrative vacuum on Saint-Eustatius to continue. What about the stability of that part of the country? Too much, too much for one debate. We are not even talking about the actual issues of today, namely the budgetary documents, the BES fund and the underlying investigations, and the implementation agendas. What about the liquidity of Saint Martin, for example? We read the opposite reports from the Prime Minister of Saint Martin about the freezing of liquidity support by the Dutch government, while Sint-Maarten himself says that they do not suffer so much from it. What is their status when it comes to the possibility of attracting own loans and own capital? We have not yet discussed the implementation agendas, for example from Aruba. Fortunately, it has now been signed, but this is not yet the case for Curaçao and Saint Martin. These implementation agendas include stability: the new governing body of the Prime Minister Pisas and the supporting parties MFK and PNP in Curaçao and Sint-Maarten in relation to COHO, the Caribbean Reform and Development Body, which has already been discussed several times in this debate. It is also about effective government, better education, guaranteed care and protection of the rule of law. These are all important themes that raise many questions, that cry out for answers. We read in the underlying documents "That's just been discussed "That makes small scale vulnerable and calls for political involvement." The question is whether this political involvement is sufficient. I get the feeling that in many places the dike is leaking, also in view of the many questions and the important problems I have just outlined, and that these holes need to be closed quickly. I read a piece by MP Attje Kuik of the Labour Party. "There are many new MPs on this file," she says. She fears collective loss of memory on the Caribbean Netherlands file, partly because of the very complex interlinkages in this file. There is collective amnesia in parliament at a time when Caribbean Netherlands is crying out for answers to execution questions, where answers are not expected in the short term due to the government's missionary status. Is it not high time for Dutch parliamentarians to consult directly with Parliaments in the Caribbean Netherlands in order to reconsider the long-term perspective? I hear from the audience that this is already happening. That's nice. I haven't been able to read it myself, so I'd like to catch up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u111	If you'd like to make a comment, would you mind doing it at the interrupting microphone? The people at home can no longer follow this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u112	In any case, I am sticking to the proposal that it is high time to start talking to each other in order to re-enable the long-term perspective. In addition, it is also necessary to be informed of the state of play, with parliamentarians also showing a picture of the infrastructure needs and the delays in maintenance on the various islands, so that they can assess this on the right merits. If we do that, that's fine. I understood, from the first part of the debate, that it has not continued in recent years, because it was related to corona. So at least that part hasn't been executed yet. I'm calling for that to be done. The distance from the Dutch parliament to the parliaments of the Caribbean Netherlands and its inhabitants should be reduced. The solutions must be mutually acceptable and the voice of the parliaments and, in particular, of the inhabitants must be guiding in this. This experiment in the Caribbean Netherlands, which started in 2010, was a good start in itself, but failed to take into account gaps in knowledge, interpersonal relations and human weaknesses. This Parliament must force a solution to this problem this year, 2021. The OSF is therefore in favour of Parliament taking action itself and cutting through the necessary buttons in the area of investment and incentives this year, so that the resolution of the crisis goes hand in hand with the development of new lines for the future of the Caribbean Netherlands. I have two more questions. There has been a study in which, in the case of infrastructure, the mobility and transport component has not been taken into account, although it is a very important and essential part of society, especially on islands. I was wondering what that was like. There is also delayed maintenance of ports and airports. There is also insufficient knowledge of utilities and drinking water facilities. Does the government see anything in the creation of a kind of island nv for utilities for all islands, including infrastructure and digital networks? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u113	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u114	We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was sworn in as Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations on 26 October 2017, I still knew quite little about the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. I kind of stepped in, so to speak, neutrally. I did not have 30 years of experience, like Mr Rosenmöller. I think I had a bit of the same idea as Mr Raven at the moment, given how he just spoke in his speech. I had never been there, at least not on all the islands and only very briefly, and of course had no overall picture of what is going on on the islands. One thing immediately became clear to me and that has only become clearer over the past three and a half years: it is about people. Everything we do to the Dutch government, both to the Caribbean Netherlands and to the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, is about people in often vulnerable situations getting the attention they deserve; there are not so many of them. The corona crisis that we have been carrying with us for a year has caused a deep crisis, particularly in the islands, given its vulnerability and the high degree of dependence on tourism. If I have learned one thing in the last three and a half years, that is that you can only do things in the interests of the inhabitants of the Kingdom if you do that together: together with the island councils, together with the governments and their parliaments. When it comes to the autonomous countries within the Kingdom, of course, we relate to Mr Van der Burg as a government and, as a member of parliament, to other Members of Parliament. This does not prevent contacts between the government and parliaments of other countries, especially on an informal basis, from simply taking place and in recent years. When it comes to the Caribbean Netherlands, the situation is quite different, as has already been said in this debate. There we have a direct responsibility for the public bodies and for the 25,000 people who live there anymore. This also means that the towers in The Hague, the departments, have an important responsibility to work on the welfare of those people on the islands in this case Caribbean Netherlands. I was a local driver. So I have always felt very related to the deputy authorities of the public bodies, who are working day in, day out to make it better for their people, and also with the members of the island council. In the end, it is about "serve the people," as I sometimes say. That is the task that we all have in a different role: how do we make these people better? I started my story on October 26, 2017, the day of my swearing-in, the day of the swearing-in of the entire cabinet. But a few weeks before, a giant hurricane had kept house on the Upper Winds. Sint-Maarten in particular, but also Saba and Saint-Eustatius have been affected. When I got there and was there for the first time, I saw what great havoc that hurricane had caused and what heartbreaking scenes we could see; people who had literally lost home and fireplace. At that time, the Dutch cabinet decided very quickly, in November, to make EUR 600 million available for emergency aid and structural aid for the reconstruction of the Upper Wind Islands. This has led to a lot of projects being carried out in cooperation with the World Bank and I shall say a little more about this later. They were all intended to spend Dutch taxpayers' money in a good and effective way for the good of those people. Now back to the present. Barely obtained from this natural violence we had the next crisis, and we're still in the middle of it. That crisis is very deep. Some of you have already referred to the medical situation at the moment, especially in Curaçao, but actually you could call all the ABC islands, the Downwinds, where the number of infections is massive. It is nice to see that from the beginning, initially from the Netherlands but now also from the countries themselves, help is provided within the Kingdom, where the need is highest. I think that's a very big good. Supporting each other on its own strength and the will to stand by each other is not an empty concept, but something you can shape every day in practice. Looking at the situation at the moment, for which Mr Blokhuis is responsible in the cabinet and on which a letter to Parliament is addressed today, we see that everything is being done at this moment to counter the catastrophic consequences for Curaçao by mass vaccination, by sending additional staff in that direction and by additional resources. At the same time, we are asking the governments there to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Rosenmöller said: it takes two to tango. This is certainly true in bilateral relations with the countries. Here too, we can expect the countries to take all the measures and to expect us to assist them if necessary. We have done so massively when it comes to medical aid and food aid. I would like to stress this once again in this debate here in the First Chamber because it has been unconditional aid. We thought that was very important because the need for support was so great that you should not impose conditions on this aid. That is a principle principle. We have given food aid for a great deal of money over the last period, namely 71 million. It is true that about 20% of the population of the countries were affected and depended on it. I believe that Mr Rosenmöller said that I said earlier that it was a disgrace that we should do this. I still mean that. I'm still in favour of that. It is no shame that we did it, but that this is necessary in the first crisis. It is about the weaknesses in the systems of the countries. It is not the case that the islands, and especially the countries, are poor islands. No, that's not the case. There is a problem of division that is completely distorted. Wealth and poverty are divided in such a way that the most vulnerable pay the price in the first crisis. And that's what I thought was a disgrace, not that we should help anyone. I think we should do that in such a situation. There is no discussion about that either. I'm making the bridge to the reforms. This crisis has also affected us and has also asked the Dutch government to draw from reserves to support companies, staff, employees and people. But it just couldn't do that in the countries anymore. The countries were no longer able to do so themselves. In the system of administrative governance and the financial system there have been irregularities for a long time; let me just mention it. There was a high level of national debt, especially for small islands, linked to excessive expenditure. If you do that for a long time, the money is gone, you can't go anywhere and your autonomy is compromised. That's the point I made in the letter. I wrote that the countries can no longer bear their own autonomy and that everything is aimed at, including from the Dutch Government, to ensure that this autonomy can be carried forward in the future. That just means the housekeeping has to be in order. Is it real to ask in a crisis in which so many people are affected? That is not the case with emergency aid and medical aid, but it is if you have been lending more than EUR 750 million in total over the past year. You can make terms with that. Einstein once said: madness is if you keep doing the same thing and hope for another outcome. If things don't change on the islands, things don't get better by themselves. Yes, we have made all kinds of attempts in recent years, especially since 10-10-10, in one country there has actually been a start and in the other not to improve the financial system, to let the countries actually stand on their own feet, to be able to bear the autonomy. This crisis has revealed to all three countries that it was not possible to do so. In itself that is not a disgrace, but it makes clear what has happened in recent years, even in the time of the Netherlands Antilles. I believe that Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Recourt mentioned debt restructuring eleven years ago. Now we have debt ratios again which are far too high and far too high. If you, as a Dutch government, once again decide to provide 750 million in liquidity support across the different countries, then you have to set conditions to prevent it from happening again next time. Solidarity is also that you need to be able to appeal to each other because you know you've done everything you can to do the right thing. If there is no or insufficient responsibility on the islands, I am going to say something general and over a long period of time, and if a problem is reported to a fellow country with the request for help, then it is not crazy to say: okay, we are going to help you, but we are going to make arrangements to prevent you from getting back into this situation in the future. I would like to say the following here too. For there have been great words spoken, sometimes in the echo of what I heard in the media in the Caribbean, about dictations and coercive things. The agreements we have made with the countries are, to a very large extent, particularly in the case of Curaçao and Aruba, based on their own growth strategy or the Aruba master plan that had been drawn up before, because they themselves saw that there was a need for reform on a number of points. That's what we did. We have done this in a context where you do not have months to negotiate with each other. The liquidity requirement was extremely acute. Money had to be provided immediately, otherwise the salaries could not be paid and the aid packages would not be rolled out. So we were faced with a dilemma. Of course, on the one hand, you want to give me that money. At the same time, you don't want to end up in a procession of Echternach that lasts for years. You didn't want that to last for a very long time, perhaps as the coronapandemic; we didn't know at the time that this would result in billions of euros of aid, without any beginning of reform on the other hand. That's why we came up with the system of tranche rings. A system of quarterly instalments, whereby each time, on the basis of advice from the CFT, we look at what is needed in terms of liquidity and what conditions we attach to it. Let me also answer the question of some of you, namely: if you reflect on it, did it all go well and would you have done it better another time? It can always be better. That's what I'm saying anyway. With the knowledge of today that hopefully within a few weeks, months we will be in a situation where we are at least a bit in balance with that virus again, we will be able to do a number of things again and hopefully we will be able to attract the economy on those islands again, you can say that perhaps, fortunately not for too long, we would have to provide that support. But when we were faced with that choice, of course, we didn't know that. We're still not sure. We certainly didn't know then. It could happen for a very long time. It is precisely because these countries and this debate, of course, have been dependent on tourism for a very long time. Just in this pandemic that meant that that economy completely crashed. This is a difference with the Netherlands, where we have a much more diverse economy and are therefore less vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u116	On this point, how does the Secretary of State explain that the conditions laid down by the Secretary of State appear to the three countries as a dictatorship? What has gone wrong in the communication between the Dutch Government and the governments of the three countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u117	I find it a little difficult to put the finger on that. I would also like to make it clear that relations with the countries have deteriorated in recent years. Especially when it comes to the governments of Aruba and Curaçao, those are the governments that were as long as the Dutch government, I have really experienced that investing in relationships and good contacts also makes it possible to differ from time to time, without affecting the relationship. It is clear that the political spectrum, opposition in the states or opinion leaders in the countries, is also well-tambored, and that these signals were also received here. But it's not always one-on-one said that relations with those governments were problematic. On St.Maarten it is something else, because we had to deal with four governments in this period. As a result, it is always difficult to get back on track with those who were first opposition, then came into a government and, for example, fought matters that you previously agreed with the previous government. Look, the point is no one likes to see conditions imposed. But if you go to a bank and want to get a credit, that bank's gonna look at the financial situation, what you're doing to solve the problem and what the bank can do. I don't want to bring it all down to a purely financial relationship. But when it comes to so much money, 750 million euros, the Dutch taxpayer can count on the Dutch government to ensure that these loans can be repaid on extremely interesting terms, namely 0% of debt, and that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u118	This is a very rational explanation, but the next question is, of course, what the Secretary of State has learned from the commotion that caused the setting of conditions. What else would he do in the future, if we got back into such a situation, in order to come together to a certain solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u119	In part, we are going to have this discussion within the framework of the Consensus Rijkswet COHO. Let me answer the question in a political way, apart from the legislation that is to come and which is being discussed here in Parliament, because it can now be done. Look, we were in a crisis situation. You can see that the instruments we have, for example in order to reach consensus on national legislation, do not really relate to a crisis situation. That would be my first analysis. It's kind of like the firefighter's gonna put out and have to start drawing up a new contract while the fire's raging. The situation was that due to the total and immediate collapse of the tourist industry the revenue for the authorities there fell completely away. They were unable to obtain funds on the international capital market and thus ended up with the Netherlands. That was on top of the initial medical assistance that the Netherlands had already given. You'll see that before you know it, you'll end up in a process that's going to take a very long time, while in the meantime, the money tap will be completely open. The Dutch government has tried to bring that back in blocks. For Aruba and Curaçao that was based, once again, on plans that they themselves had in preparation. It was also felt that they were good plans, if you wanted to reform, but they had not yet been implemented for all kinds of reasons. In the case of Curaçao, you know the mutual arrangement, the growth agreement we had agreed. In fact, that growth agreement is the same as the country package that is now in place. However, that growth agreement never came to fruition because there was also insufficient political will to put it into action. Sometimes it was also a matter of lack of capacity. It was not just a lack of political will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u120	Mr. Dittrich, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u121	My third, final question is specifically about Saint Martin, because that is where you shut down the money supply. How does it open again and under what conditions? I feel that the people of Saint Martin are now being punished for a conflict between the island council and the Secretary of State. Surely it cannot be the intention of the people to pay the price for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u122	I believe that you yourself said in your speech that the initiative of the States was on behalf of the people of Saint Martin, but that it was not. But I do have to deal with the political reality there. Let me just say that I'm not naive in this kind of business. I have already had a discussion with Saint Martin and the States of Saint Martin on how to see that this accusation at the UN actually says that the whole Statute and COHO is something they do not want at all; that is not possible at the moment. How am I supposed to reconcile the fact that there was agreement and support on the agreements reached with the Dutch Government by the Government of Saint Martin on the land package? It is one of two, I would say: you cannot follow two tracks and say that they are both correct if those traces are in themselves, legally, but also politically, diametrically relative to each other. I fully agree with Mr Dittrich, and that has always been my commitment, especially with regard to the projects we have done with Saint Martin, that the population is certainly not served by a stalemate between two governments. On the other hand, however, I can also expect the Parliament of Saint Martin to set priorities at the moment and, as a representative of that country's people, when that country is in crisis, to make every effort to ensure that those resources are made available. While that process is going on, a very delicate process, you should not start such action at the UN. That can not be so much to me personally, because I find that not so interesting, but rather to the Netherlands as a slap in the face of a country within the Kingdom that you want to help. In this way it is actually said that it has colonial and racial intentions. Those are very big words, and I think that we need to be clear about this in our Kingdom of St Martin and the Government of St Martin. In this process between the government of Saint Martin and the Parliament of Saint Martin, I am still at the moment, so I cannot say anything about that now, other than that I sincerely hope that St Martin will make the right choices in the interests of its own inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u123	I fully understand the answer to Mr Dittrich's last question. However, I would like to return to his first two questions, because that touched the heart of the matter, and I myself had the impression that the answer from the Secretary of State might be even more concrete. After all, the question is: what does he think of the grumpy that has arisen in the governments as a result of this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u124	Well, in itself I can imagine, because the essence of what was going on was of course that de facto the autonomy of the countries was no longer there because of this crisis, because the countries could no longer decide independently on the raising of capital, could no longer rely on the international capital market and were dependent on the Netherlands, and that the Netherlands said at that time and, in itself, completely plausible: yes, we would like to go along with you in that path, but we would like to attach a number of conditions to that. And those conditions, once again, are not conditions that are intended to serve the interests of the Netherlands; no, these are conditions that are meant to be, and then I come back to my opening sentences to make things better for people in the country, to solve the problem of poverty on the one hand and wealth without paying taxes. In short, how do you ensure that the countries can carry their autonomy? And that requires a number of reforms. Some of them you shouldn't do in the middle of the crisis, but you should do afterwards. You can certainly do some of them. We have made those points. And I can imagine that some politicians were grumpy about that, but I have always asked myself all the considerations I have made in recent years, but certainly last year: is what we are doing now in the interest of the politicians there, or is it in the interest of the inhabitants of the islands, of the countries? And that wasn't always a parallel outcome, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u125	Yes, and yet one more step deeper, because of the question that was raised here in the Chamber, and Mr Dittrich also asked that question once more: just reflect on that. You say: yes, you can always do better. I find that too easy; everything can always be better, so we can't get away with that, I'll say. So I think it's important to learn from the process, because I'm from the school "if you give, you can also make terms," so I don't have to have that conversation at all. But my point was that you have made an unnecessary contribution to sharpening the contradictions, in a situation where the Netherlands is the giver and they are the recipients, and indeed you may also impose conditions. But it was perceived as a dictation. And the question is, also just to learn for the future: what could we have done better here, what could you, the Dutch Government, done, as concretely as possible, so that the goals would be met and the collateral damage would have been more limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u126	That's a bit of asking a general, while he's in the middle of a fight, to start evaluating that battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u127	I'm telling an ex-military man, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u128	No, I found the comparison very interesting, and the firefighter I mentioned earlier. Look, we're still in that crisis, we're still talking to the countries. And the frustration that was there every now and then and the rhetoric around it, and the grumpy that was there to reform because someone else said you should... I can imagine. And yet it is necessary. And yet it is necessary, so I do not agree with Mr Rosenmöller's hypothesis of 'your actions have contributed to the worsening relationships'. One: because I think that these relations with the countries are, well, I am not speaking to everyone, but I am still speaking with the governments of Curaçao and Aruba, despite the difficult times we have had. But the politics surrounding it, especially in the States and the media, and you also know how it all works there... I've heard so many stories about things that just weren't right, but were going around in the media. Well, I don't have any control over the media and I don't have that ambition either, and I don't want to blame the media for that either, but that's a situation. You know exactly what happened in the islands that caused a cocktail of 'we're against it'. Well, why are you against it? "Well, because we're against it." But what's all that about? Well, they didn't know that. And I understand it, because we have done business with the governments, and the parliaments of course did not know at that point, when it comes to consensual legislation, from the hat and the edge. So there were questions, and those governments could not answer that because we had chosen the process of consensus-rich legislation, which in itself, I think, having heard your question, is a very noble goal. But you could ask yourself whether consensus-rich legislation is going through Article 43 (2) as well; that is just intervention, by the way, there is no consensus anymore, but that could have been done with this pressure of time, because it was there of course and it is still the happiest combination. I would like to reflect on that, also because I sincerely want to know what we can learn from this. At the same time, I say that, of course, we are still in a crisis, not only in a health crisis but also in an economic crisis, and in some countries in an administrative crisis. That's what everyone's gonna ask for... to put all the sails in place. So right now, in this situation, I'm not fully reflecting, mentally, because the process we've started is still going on. The parliaments of these countries are still moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u129	Mr Rosenmöller, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u130	Let me make a final comment. I understand a great deal of what the Secretary of State says. Thirdly, I would like to go further, because you say that relations with these governments are good. That will certainly be the case, but you also know that there under the skin, including those in the government who speak to you more intensively and more frequently than I do, but I am also speaking to them about sounds that cause us concern and which at least contribute to parts of at least my first term in the policy debate in this Chamber. So let's not make that good relationship with the governments of Aruba and Curaçao more beautiful than it is. On average, it's good, but there's a layer of discontent underneath it. You did not cause it, but it is important to analyse it properly so that we think about how we can both do better. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u131	Absolutely. I fully agree, but this is a crisis we have never experienced before, not only not in the European Netherlands but also in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. It has enormous effects and, as I have just said, has exposed what we have known for a long time, namely that carrying that autonomy granted to the countries in 2010 requires more than just being a country, namely sometimes making difficult political choices. We have made these choices in the Netherlands in recent years. This has led to a significant reduction in our public debt. This allowed us to raise that debt again at this time. We have never depended on other countries. We could do it ourselves. In fact, we have helped countries within the European Union that could not bear it themselves, with the same conditions, but at least similar conditions. Why did we do that? Not to say: we give something and then we want something in return. No, we want to prevent us from having to do this again at the first best next crisis. I have also heard the idea of 'trying to give real substance and strength to the autonomy of these countries' in the contacts with the prime ministers of that country. People understand that, too. Does everyone understand that in the countries? No, because, of course, people are getting hit. People are being affected, especially in the countries affected by the economic crisis. People lost their jobs and there was no immediate solution. I have been in the countries recently, even in the covid period. I've seen how painful this poverty is. That poverty really isn't just because of that one crisis. It's because there are really weave errors in the system: how do you deal with the distribution of prosperity? How do you make people just do what they have to do? The strongest shoulders, the heaviest burdens: paying taxes and collecting taxes. It just doesn't happen, or it doesn't. The money just walks away. The money's on the street, but it doesn't end up with the good people. I am also concerned about this, because the Netherlands is also a country within the Kingdom that has something to uphold in the field of human rights. It's about how to make that concrete. Sometimes it is a lack of capacity, but sometimes it is also a lack of political will or look away. I think that all politicians... by the way... Mr Schalk just said that we sometimes say that we are doing well at this time and that we are an example for others. I thought that was a nice reflection. We too have our problems. I've always said that. Here too, integrity is not something that automatically goes well. You have to talk to each other about it. You have to challenge each other. I've met a lot of people in the last three and a half years who have exactly the same drive, who want to, but who sometimes just don't get through it. Contrary to the signals you gave here today, they say: 'How good of you to make that condition, because at least now something is going to change, something that has been promised for years and which has never happened'. This is not something you can blame the cabinets that are sitting there now. This is something that has been built up for a long time, even in the time of the Netherlands Antilles. I think it would be nice if we could actually help each other within the Kingdom. We'll do the same with help. But it's also about the following. How can you organize things better? Just really simple: how do you make sure that tax collection goes well? How do you make sure your real estate management is in order and that your hospital care is in order? We have so much knowledge and skill. If there's one thing I've learned about how we can help each other, it's to exchange that knowledge and experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u132	I hear the Secretary of State say, and I would like to verify that: in fact, there was no room for the islands, for the countries, to say no to the conditions; other aid was not actually possible, so our aid was the only one that was possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u133	As I said, medical and humanitarian aid has been unconditional. We immediately restored them, in the spirit of both the 1953 and World War II Floods. In terms of liquidity support, worth some 750 million now, we have indeed said that things need to change. But I said, also to Mr Nicolaï, that both Curaçao and Aruba already had their own plans for reform, which they wanted to implement anyway. You referred to Aruba a few times. Remember that in 2018 I had already come to a protocol with the Government of Aruba, which has recently been a Demissionary, to reduce national debt, voluntarily. So it is really not the case that the Netherlands says it has to be different and that is why they are obliged to do so. That's not the right picture. They were convinced that it had to be done, but we did indeed have a situation in which I am not going to go into detail: we are going to set conditions for that high level of liquidity support. By the way, it is interesting to report that you were talking about the reduction in salaries that Aruba itself, the first of the three countries, had indicated that they wanted to introduce that discount. That 12.5% actually stems from that first step of Aruba; the Netherlands had not yet come to terms with that. That is a step that we have made applicable to the other countries as well. But that was voluntary, because people also saw in Aruba that it was no longer possible at that time. I have also praised them for this because the Government of Aruba, I say this again here at an early stage, was really already in the process of reducing the national debt, which had grown considerably over the last ten years. This crisis has shed another light on this, but the measures underlying it are still valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u134	I have a second question, because I would like a little more detail. Could the countries, in the situation they were in, say no? Was it a real opportunity for them to say no to the terms we presented to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u135	Yes. They are agreements that we have concluded with the countries, so the countries could say no. If they had said no, they would have ended up in a financially extremely unattractive situation, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u136	Mr Nicolaï, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u137	The Secretary of State has mentioned necessary reforms. If I have understood the Statute correctly, it is up to the governments and the representatives of the people of those countries themselves to see what are then necessary reforms. Now I can imagine that if you give money, liquidity, you say: it should not be a bottomless pit from which the money flows again; in financial terms we can set conditions, as a bank also lays conditions. But does the Secretary of State agree with me? Let's take a look at those packages. It says, for example, that education reforms and measures are aimed at achieving a basic quality of education, achieving a good link between education and the labour market, achieving a good flow between education systems, whether in the European Netherlands or not. In that case, education policy will simply be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u138	For the sake of clarity, this was not a dictation, but an agreement that was reached with Aruba from the point of view that has been going on for some time now that the countries have an interest in maintaining their education systems at quality level. That is precisely why we have invested EUR 30 million in Curaçao in education housing, which is simply very critical. The connection with education in the Netherlands and the possibility of returning are also of great importance. Many parliamentary questions have already been asked about this. I also believe that this is one of the added value that we can develop within the Kingdom. This is one such example on which the country of Aruba and the Netherlands agreed very quickly. In your contribution, you mentioned the example of the employees sent and the arrangements that apply to them. That's one of those examples of what Aruba had previously said they were going to do, but it never happened. It's been on the shelf for three years or so. I don't know exactly how long; it's been on the shelf for a long time. That made it difficult for soldiers stationed in Aruba as part of the Kingdom's tasks to get their partners there. Of course, that's weird. Aruba had recognized that before. They'd do something about it, but they wouldn't have done anything about it. Then I said: we just want this resolved now, because it is just a daily obstacle for people to go that way at all. While we operate as one kingdom. So that does not in itself have much to do with reforms, I agree with you, but I did say that I want it to be taken up as a priority and that it should be dealt with. And it's been taken care of by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u139	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u140	I understand that, but no matter how you turn or turn it, maybe Aruba hadn't done anything about it and it's time, but they have to decide when that time is, and not us. That's one. And two: these aren't conditions that a bank would set, not for that education and not for this? I understand the Secretary of State says, "If you give money, you'll see to it that it doesn't swirl away." However, it cannot be denied that there are all kinds of conditions which do not relate to them at all, but which in fact simply mean that we in the Netherlands have said how to organise education, how to amend a regulation on the admission of foreigners. Wouldn't a bank ever dare put its life in the context of financial security?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u141	Your question is clear. Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u142	No, but the metaphor, the comparison with a bank, is, of course, valid in some sense when it comes to making liquidity available. You can make terms with that. What has been going on here, for example, about education, but also about migration and refugees, which Mr Van der Burg has talked about, is of course that we in the Kingdom read: The Netherlands are called upon to comply with or not comply with international conventions within the Kingdom. I've been called upon to do so on a regular basis. In recent years, I have had many parliamentary questions on this subject, the answer being always: this is a matter for the countries themselves. That's the easiest way. The hardest road is, but we're gonna see how we can help them. We have made funds available for this in recent times. It is logical that you should discuss and agree with each other in this context too. Look, if it were under duress... but these are just appointments we made together. On Aruba and also on Curaçao they experienced the problems themselves. Due to the very difficult situation in Venezuela, this issue of migrants and refugees has been prominently on the agenda in recent years, but it has not been before. In fact, people who came to the island as migrants were simply used. There was a kind of shadow economy where people don't pay contributions et cetera, et cetera. All of the things we think here: that is, of course, a matter of country. But because of all kinds of issues that are brought before you internationally, you are ultimately called upon by the Netherlands to say that you are going to say, without you immediately waving the Statute, that we are going to help you to solve that, but then you also have to do a number of things yourself. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u143	I'm gonna go back to that autonomy. I wrote along with what the Secretary of State said. He said: I act in the interests of the people, and that is not always the interest of the politicians. Poverty is structural, because the distribution on the islands is not good. The tax will not be collected. A true social democrat, I'd say. I very much agree with him. But it does bite with the idea of autonomy, which, for example, the groups of the VVD and the CDA are talking about. So where does the Statute say that the Netherlands can deal with the distribution of income on the islands and is responsible for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u144	There's no record of that in the Staff Regulations. There's no record of that in the Staff Regulations. The Statute is fairly clear. The practice is much more uncomfortable. This is what this is all about. It is reported to the Netherlands, in this case, because large-scale liquidity support is needed. You said yourself, it's not that bad what we've done. Well, I figured it out; it's somewhere in my pieces. It's about 300,000 people. I thought that, per capita, we have really given more support than we have ever given per capita in Europe. I'll be right back with the amounts. Then we cannot say that we have done so lightly or that we have not taken this seriously. But then the countries can also be expected to collect the tax from those people who can pay it when it comes to tax collection. Social Democrats also know that tax collection is meant to maintain education, social services, to maintain some of the health care. For tax purposes, you have to have a system. You shouldn't want to depend on other countries. And that affects the autonomy. So in that sense it may not be a direct relationship, but it is a relationship that leads to countries simply not being able to carry their autonomy anymore. And not because they can't, because in principle they're all countries that should be able to, but because they have a number of things not in order or insufficient. That is why we said: you have to fix that. Because if you don't fix that leak, you're back in the next crisis. Then you come back to the Netherlands and then we are asked whether we want to make that money from the Dutch taxpayer available to governments that have repeatedly done nothing with the advice to do better. That is the political question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u145	I very much agree with the fact that you need to get your tax collection in order, for a lot of different reasons. The basis is that you can't keep a country running if the tax doesn't work. But that's only part of the story the Secretary of State told. We also care about the division and the poverty. Then my conclusion is that we are doing this now with improper means, because the Statute has organised a kind of sham autonomy that we do not want in practice and does not exist in practice. The Statute is therefore an obstacle to fair and open relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u146	I don't agree with you. I don't think the Statute is the problem. You could discuss the statute. Just to draw a parallel: we are in a crisis and we are going to have that discussion at the same time. Good luck, because I know how complicated that is and I also know that it does not lead to anything in the short term. But that discussion can be held. If the four countries of the Kingdom are of the opinion that adjustments should be made to this, then that could be possible. But the question is whether this autonomy is the problem. I don't think so. I would grant the countries within the Kingdom that autonomy. With everything we do, we work to ensure that they can carry that autonomy, but then you have to be able to keep your own pants up, otherwise there is no autonomy. Well, then that's a deserving notion that de facto has nothing to do with it. That's what's happening now. In 2010 Mr Rosenmöller talked about this. We cancelled Curaçao's debts. You can see how the debt has recovered in 10, 11 years. That's not sustainable. Then you already know what's gonna happen again in 10 years if we were to forgive this debt now. So it is not a solution to the problem. Again, I was a local driver. Let's take a moment to understand that the population of Curaçao is the size of Amersfoort and Aruba of Venlo. The complexity and challenges are thus many times greater, with all the tasks associated with an autonomous country. So I certainly don't want to be light about that. I realize it very well. I believe that cooperation within the Kingdom can help to improve the situation for all countries. But then we need to get the basics on good governance straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u147	Mr Recourt, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u148	Mr President, for the last time. I agree. I have seen how Curaçao's debt position deteriorated dramatically, particularly under MFF, but that is not the discussion. The discussion is as follows: In the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned, we have a legitimate ambition to tackle poverty. This can be achieved by improving the distribution of income. But that's an ambition that doesn't fit the structure. Then let's just be honest with each other and say "that's our ambition" instead of tinkering in emergency packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u149	As you say, an emergency package is an emergency package, because there is acute need. We have given 70 million in humanitarian aid and 750 million in liquidity support. There's really something going on. It's massive what needs to be done. If this isn't worth a crisis to reform, then what is? By the way, it was Prime Minister Rhuggenaath who used these words. I very much agreed with him. He said that it is precisely at this time that we need to do things differently, and we need to reform. He didn't succeed in the election. But I think it is quite different from what Mr Recourt just said, namely that this cabinet, the Dutch government, has turned its back on the Rhuggenaath cabinet. Those were your literal words. To be honest, that's quite a charge. Firstly, it presupposes a direct relationship between the contacts we have had with each other and the election result of a political leader of a party in an autonomous country. Secondly, it really is the truth. It's just not the way it is. There are many more elements that have played a role in the House of Commons. I am a democrat, and you are also responsible for what the electorate has decided to vote for other parties. I have said before: I am doing business on behalf of the Dutch Government with all the democratically elected governments, with all of them, no matter how difficult that may be. One may be a bit easy with the other, but we cannot distinguish between them. We'd be antidemocratic. I think it is a kind of wishful thinking, as if Mr Recourt wanted to give some sort of voting advice to the people of Curaçao, like: if only you would have voted in favour of Prime Minister Rhuggenaath's PAR, because it would have worked out well. We can't say. I really do not think this is appropriate in the traffic between two autonomous countries, nor in the traffic between parliamentarians of countries. We wouldn't accept that either. I shall therefore refrain from Mr Recourt's comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u150	A very clear statement by the Secretary of State, I think, in which he has said a number of times that the big question as far as he is concerned is whether the countries can bear the autonomy. I would like him to reflect on whether they have the courage to carry that autonomy, whether they want to carry that autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u151	That's a very general question. I think that if you put it to different politicians or inhabitants of the islands, it would be answered differently each time. My feeling, in the contacts I have, is that they are all different countries; Aruba has a very different position than the other two and also a different history of being very proud of having that autonomous status. So my feeling isn't that they'd want to get rid of it, and I understand that. I have a feeling that at such a distance you want to keep your own pants, that you want to make your own choices and that you certainly don't want to be confronted with governments from other countries telling you what to do. But the point is, we wouldn't normally do that either. Nor would we interfere with this autonomy, which we respect on the basis of the Statute. We are now only in a situation where we are asked to do something many times greater than just mutual assistance and which is also much more structural in nature. Then you may do so, provided you agree with the countries. Because, once again, we don't know dictations. We can only intervene on the basis of Article 43 (2), which includes all kinds of safeguards. You can't just do that. I also think it's in the right proportions that you shouldn't want to. My feeling is that people want that autonomy in large numbers. But that includes not only the rights, but also the duties. These duties are sometimes very boring, politically speaking. That is simply to ensure that the basis is in order, that governments can function as governments, that the rule of law is not a paper letter, but is really something that is used in practice, that corruption is addressed and that there are checks and balances within that rule of law. That choice was made in 2010. That has been very ambitious. That's what it turned out to be. Countries would not be able to do so without the support of the Netherlands. In itself, that is not a problem either, but this crisis has simply brought everything together and has exposed all the weaknesses of the relationships we have agreed on with each other. I am not opposed to this, but my assessment is that it is not something for the short term, or you can now, as we are in the middle of that crisis, pick it up and close the leaks as quickly and as well as possible and make sure that, when it comes to that well-functioning government, people get the feeling: we are in control, we can do it ourselves. There is no lack of political will. It's not that. It's more like, what do you need to get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u152	Secretary of State. I'll check for the order. In any case, I will have to suspend at 6 p.m. because a number of people here will have a different appointment. That has to do with committee meetings. Then we'll be back at 7:00. So I may have to interrupt you at six o'clock, for which I apologize in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u153	It doesn't matter. I'm very flexible. I had actually only just begun my speech and I was already getting all kinds of interruptions. The advantage is that we don't have to discuss everything we've discussed in there. There are still a few things I would like to say. First of all, on COHO. I have made all these documents public, by the way, in consultation with the countries, because everything was on the streets, those opinions from the Council of State. Again, all kinds of opinions were ventilated. In order to prevent that from remaining a kind of black box, we have decided to do so completely against the procedure and also very exceptionally. This means that we are currently discussing with the countries to see how we can come up with an adapted proposal on the basis of the Council of State's opinions. That is also the essence of the consensus on national legislation. So we had an agreement with the governments of the countries. It was sent to the Council of State and there is an opinion on that. We're about to provide that advice with a response. That goes to the parliaments and then it is also discussed in the parliaments. In fact, unlike the questions that have been put to me about this, I would not like to go into them in detail here, because we are still talking to the countries. So if you would ask me what will come out in a moment: I do not know yet, because that is the subject of discussion. I have already said a few things about Saint Martin, also on the basis of the interruptions. I think I can skip that. Then Caribbean Netherlands. A number of you have rightly asked the question: should the Caribbean Netherlands or should it not be in Home Affairs or in Kingdom relations? That's a very interesting discussion. I have always argued that public bodies should not be seen as a kind of blueprint from a Dutch perspective, but rather as Dutch municipalities, and also serve them in the same way. That, I think, is beneficial to the islands themselves. There's a lot to do about that. I believe that Mr Rosenmöller asked: should we not do more about Kingdom relations, in the broad sense? Others also said that. I do not know whether it would be appropriate for a outgoing Secretary of State who is not at the negotiating table to say something about this. I understand that Mr Rosenmöller had ambitions to sit at that negotiating table. But what if you were to ask me now: do you need a tooth for the next period? And suppose I should answer that question on the basis of the experiences of the past three and a half years, and on the basis of a government agreement which really contained warm texts on the Kingdom and the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. If, on that basis, I had to answer the question of whether there should be a tooth for the next period, I would have a few suggestions, because I really think we have taken a lot of steps, but that we can always do better. I shall begin, for example, with the question of poverty, of living standards. Did we say where we're supposed to be? No, we're not there yet. But there are two things that are at stake here. On the income side, it is a question of security of existence, but it is also a question of reducing costs where this can be done. If you're going to turn on one of those two buttons, there may be some very complicated economics going on, and you don't want to. So you have to do that one step at a time. But I really believe that I am proud that we have set a benchmark for the social minimum in the past period. We have done this in the first instance with the then Secretary of State of SZW. We also said at the time: that is not an end point, but a benchmark. A benchmark is just something other than an end point. I would like another cabinet to continue along that road, because I am convinced that the people there deserve that, also in view of the scale. I once discussed this with my colleague Van Ark. It concerns 25,000 people, and sometimes it is difficult to do so in The Hague. If you encrypt that about all Dutch municipalities and then look at it, yes, then we're just obliging those people to take it a step further. So we really should go through with that. But as an example, I also mention social housing. We have really achieved things in this area. 500 social rentals are being realized on Bonaire. On Sint-Eustatius there are 95 renovated houses and 50 new ones. Saba is 18 rentals. So you can see that we have really been able to take a number of concrete steps. We did that with the local authorities, I say very clearly, because this has all gone in good cooperation. I am very pleased that we have been able to achieve something not only on that side but also on the cost level. With electricity, drinking water, the Internet, we have been able to make substantial cost reductions with colleagues in the cabinet. This brings me to the position of the coordinating Secretary of State. This has, of course, been mentioned in the past. I was lucky to have many colleagues in the cabinet who were receptive to my observations after my first visits, when I was there, and when I said: something really needs to be done. I first mention Tamara of Ark, but after her others followed. I would like to wish a new cabinet to anchor it a little more strongly, so that the people on the islands do not face 'the towers of Van Raak'. Let me just mention the ministries in The Hague. Mr Van Raak of the SP has always talked about this very graphically. Where's Mrs. Gerkens? Oh, she's right there. Mr Van Raak is, I think, a bit right when he talks about 'the towers in The Hague'. So we have tried to create a sort of "one-stop shop" with a steering committee and so on. So that has really improved, but there could still be a battle over it, not least because of the ibo report that Mr Recourt did not want to talk about. But with this he wrongs himself, for Mr Recourt was chairman of it. That report really does provide a number of concrete tools to improve the situation of the people on the islands and to remove this unnecessary bureaucracy. The unsolicited advice from the Council of State at that time, and the ibo report, deal in a very concrete way with the question of how to change those relationships. In this area, too, the choice was made in 2010 to organise it in a certain way, with all good intentions. But after ten years it is really time to look at what can be done differently, and especially at what can be done better. And sometimes it's just really flat about coins, about money. With the VNG, of course, we often have the discussion about whether municipalities receive sufficient resources from the Municipal Fund. There is one thing I know for sure: the islands currently have too little structural space for this free payment. We've been sticking to that every now and then. Well, I'm getting a little slippery right now by reading out all kinds of wish lists here, but I'd say that this free allowance really needs something done by a new cabinet. It's gonna have to be arranged differently. We also touch on the position of the State representative. By the way, I am quite positive, I am actually very positionable about what we have achieved in the BES islands in recent years. This has partly to do with the fact that the departments, such as VWS and OCW, are doing their things in a good way, so that there are fewer responsibilities for the directors there than in the autonomous countries. So small scale is sometimes also an advantage. But, dear people, it's a long way away and if you get a hurricane over your roof, you really can't afford it all by yourself. So that's what this cabinet has had to do to ensure that those islands can function, but I'm really impressed by the resilience, but also by the administrative power of the islands. I will say a little more specifically about Saint-Eustatius, because there is a little bit more to be said about this, also because the law on the neglect of tasks was passed in this Chamber in February 2018. I'd like to reflect on that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman, now a former member of the VVD, said at the first budget debate at that time that I was just a week Secretary of State, I believe; that was the first budget to be dealt with at that time that he wished me a cool head and a warm heart to this portfolio. I understood what he meant, but I don't know what he meant until now. Because it is sometimes crisis and at the same time, always when you come to the islands: those relationships remain. Those of you who have been there within the framework of IPKO or the committee KOREL can confirm that. It is people who live there, who want to secure their future there, and we can help them so incredibly well to realize those dreams. But then it has to be picked up from two sides, it takes two to tango in a good way. I would like to conclude my introduction by saying that everyone who wants to participate has been invited to participate and that this creates the obligation for us, also on the part of the Dutch Government, to address seriously the problems of these countries. If they come forward, they shouldn't be in front of a closed door. In recent years, I have always tried to solve the often very complicated problems with these countries, from hurricanes to covid.................................................................................................................................................................................................. And at a great distance from the Netherlands, huh? That is really different from the fact that municipality a neighboring municipality b is asking for assistance. You're on an island, far away. Sometimes it's literally all alone, when you're there, to tackle the problems that are there, too. "Huntu" is a word in the Papiaments that I always use and that I have learned: only together can you do things. That certainly applies to the Kingdom's relations. Mr. Chairman. I've got all these cubes. I would like to start with the questions that have been asked about COHO, as far as I have not yet answered them. That's quite something by now, I see. Mr Rosenmöller had another interesting question, a bit along the lines of Mr Recourt, whether the autonomy we consider so high is not often an argument to say from the Netherlands: do it yourself, because you are of it; it is your autonomy. The Statute sets out exhaustively what Kingdom matters are. Think of defence and external relations. The guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms, legal certainty and sound administration are also elements of the Kingdom, of the Statute. All other matters are matters of their own. That is what the countries are responsible for. But in practice, of course, you can see that, for example in the area of law enforcement, there is already a shared responsibility. If there are some very specific things... think of covid... then the countries can't do it themselves, although someone like Izzy Gersenbluth... We call him the Caribbean Jaap of Dissel. If you see how they do that right now with the resources they have, that's really incredible. I have deep respect for that. Those are the things where you can help each other. So I think, in retrospectively, if I may reflect for a moment, that in recent years we have perhaps been hoping too much and working too little to actually strengthen that autonomy, so that you are now in the situation that de facto that autonomy is not there for a moment. And I wish the countries well. Mr Dittrich asked very specifically how the relationship between Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands is currently going. I am in contact both with the Government of Saint Martin and with Parliament. I am still waiting for a statement on how these two positions that have been taken are to endure each other. I hope to be clear about this in the near future, so that we can also sign the country package. I was prepared to do so, but the Prime Minister of Saint Martin was not ready or able to do so while this discussion is still taking place. I hope that will not be at the expense of the people of Saint Martin. I think that Mr Schalk's question concerning the balance between interference and financial support has been answered in some detail. Then there is Mrs Ruijten's question concerning the food aid of 71 million. I have said that it is unconditional. Moreover, in the context of food aid, Mr Schalk has indeed had a somewhat economical answer from me, which is already two years, two and a half years ago, I think about the relationship between churches and the Dutch government and how you could use it. That was a bit in the natural restraint we always have when it comes to the separation between church and state. Over the past period I have experienced in my visits with Bishop Secco on Curaçao, but also with other people and representatives of churches, that the churches may be much more part of society than in the Netherlands. They really know what is going on in the capillaries; think about poverty, but also about domestic violence or other problems. They have a completely different role. It looks like the role the church had 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago maybe, 60 years ago, well, at least a long time ago in the Netherlands. Now the church has part of that role, but no longer on that large scale. I have seen that the relationship between the governments and the Church is generally very good and that there are also many church-related organisations involved around these NGOs, which are coordinated by the Red Cross. We have done so knowingly, because we wanted to use the existing infrastructure. I am therefore extremely positive about this. I also appreciate how that all goes. We have, of course, also on the basis of the principles of the Red Cross... and so do the churches. We notice that in the conversations. They make no distinction between people with or without status, or whatever. They help everyone. I like that, too. That is also the message to the countries in future humanitarian aid: think carefully about who or who is not going to receive this aid. You can't just say: you have a status, so you get help and someone else doesn't. That also has to do with human rights. So that's the kind of discussion we have, including with the countries. Mr Recourt actually said that these relations have deteriorated. He mentioned the fact that there is now a outgoing government in Curaçao and that there will be a new government. By the way, I have been in contact with this on several occasions. So we're going to work on that relationship with them too, which is also pronounced, also from their side towards us. That's always again... it's like a real relationship, so to speak. I don't have any experience with that, but that you... that's a bit of a weird comparison. I'm not gonna make that right now. There's gonna be new people, and you're gonna have to invest in them again. You don't know these people, or you know them much less. You have the same intentions with that, but it just takes time, also for them, to learn about those country packages, for example, in which they had no further involvement, to see what agreements the Rhuggenaath cabinet has made with the Dutch government. The fall of the Government of Aruba was an internal matter. That had nothing to do with the relationship with the Netherlands. But it is true that this has also happened here; the cabinet has also been decommissioned here. That's what happens in those countries. Added to the fact that a lot of people have now left the House of Representatives, that is a risk in itself. Take the Kingdom Relations portfolio. It's called "Kingdom relations" for a reason; you have to invest in it for a long time. If there are a lot of changes, on any side of the ocean, that is generally not conducive to the relationship. I have answered Mr Nicolaï's question about the LTUV. Mr Schalk asks for an overview of what we have already given to help. I can do that very briefly. That is 758 million in liquidity loans and 71 million in food aid, apart from all medical support from VWS and for which people have been hired, including from the United States. With regard to Sint-Maarten, the situation is now that the third tranche of 90 million has been paid into the trust fund. In this way, 352 million have now been paid into the trust fund, which is also released to be spent on projects which have also been discussed on the basis of proposals in the World Bank Steering Committee. There's 101 million left. In addition, the Netherlands has offered to provide technical assistance in many areas. So we've sent specialists in the field of waste disposal, think of the big dump that's out there, but also in the field of airport. That pays the Netherlands and they are deployed by the government, at least under the authority of the World Bank and in cooperation with the government of Saint Martin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u154	Thank you. It's 6:00 now. I'm going to suspend by appointment. We resume the debate after dinner break, so at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u155	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The members of the Chamber, whom I thank once again for their input in the first term, still have a number of answers to questions too well. First of all, Mrs Gerkens, who is coming. I'll put that back so she can see it. Ms Oomen-Ruijten asked about the possibility for countries to derogate from the budgetary standards laid down in the Aruba and the Curaçao and Sint-Maarten Regulations respectively during the financial year 2021. On 18 December, I also informed your Chamber of the decision-making process in the National Council of Ministers, which decided, at the request of the countries, that Aruba, Curaçao and St Maarten may also derogate from those budgetary standards in 2021. The underlying reasoning is that, in line with CFT's advice, it was decided to equate the degree of derogation with the Dutch liquidity support expected to be provided in 2021 plus any domestic and foreign liquidity raised to cover budget deficits. There is Mrs Gerkens; now I am going to answer her question. She asked what vision I have on the cuts in the public sector, especially on health care and how the Netherlands can do them, also a little along the lines of the discussion we had on autonomy and how far you can go. As part of that liquidity support, we initially asked for a reduction of 12.5% on the total working conditions package of government employees and political officials. Aruba had suggested that at the time, because it saw that it was no longer possible. We have done the same for the other two countries. This had to do with the fact that revenue and expenditure were totally out of balance and that sacrifices are being made from everyone, including those who still have a job, because a lot of people have lost their jobs. The IMF has also noted that in Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin there is too large a gap between the costs of the public sector and the total public finances. But it is also about solidarity with private companies and people who have lost their jobs. We have said that these are temporary measures, because when the crisis is over and everything can be done again, there may also be an adjustment, but it is not possible for this to happen for the time being. With regard specifically to health care, you mentioned Curaçao, but I think you referred to Aruba in your question, because there was a discussion about the cuts that should be made there. The Cft has already indicated in the direction of Aruba that the costs of care go completely out of control there. This has only been reinforced by the crisis, especially since the income of hospitals and that sort of thing as a result of covid is getting smaller because there can be fewer regular operations; this is now also happening on Curaçao. But this is not sustainable either. This really is a system that threatens to fall through its hoofs. The weaknesses are now exposed. Hence the request that Aruba itself make a proposal to fill this out. I have spoken with the Prime Minister of Aruba about this, but I am awaiting her response on how they intend to fill it out. A number of Members have asked Mr Dittrich, Mrs Oomen and Mr Van der Burg, at least, how I see the economic future of the countries, particularly with regard to earning capacity. We have found that, of course, we had seen for a long time that the economies are too dependent on tourism. This pandemic couldn't have occurred to anyone, but it has been very painfully exposed. It is therefore important to invest in more than just the tourism sector. A number of examples have already been mentioned. Agriculture was mentioned. Also in the durability for example around Isla on Curaçao, but you can also see this on Aruba. You may need to use this crisis to take other avenues. However, it is not just about the economic priorities that are being set, but also about reforms. The labour market, the capital market, the whole business environment, the tax system and the public sector will have to be adapted. That is not something that has been realized tomorrow, but only then will you be more resilient in a future crisis. In the end, that's the goal we have. Then the cup of Saint Martin. A number of questions have been asked, first of all by Mr Dittrich. He too had the question of reflection. That's also nice in the chambre de réflexion. They don't ask that very often in the Lower House: do you want to reflect? I do like that, because that gives us the opportunity to look back at how we have been sailing with the World Bank around Saint Martin. Honestly, the World Bank was, in a sense, a choice of necessity, because we thought that if we settled that one-on-one with Saint Martin, there would be a very heavy political burden on every decision you would make. We actually see this around the COHO with the other countries, although it was based on consensual legislation and of course Saint Martin really was an emergency in which we had to act. At the moment, we have paid 352 million into the trust fund. Nine projects are in progress and two are under preparation, worth $419 million. We have successfully completed an income support and training project with 2,000 participants, who are therefore more employable in the labour market. Over 1,300 roofs have been repaired. More than 100 shipwrecks in the Simpson Bay Lagoon have been cleared. The new building of the hospital has started. The tender for the reconstruction of the airport is currently under way. Tenders have just been received and are currently being assessed. Many local NGOs and international organisations carry out these projects together with the World Bank. That's what we did to create local ownership. For example, Qredits is also very active for companies that saw their income drop and that can be helped with a microcredit. So it is as much local ownership as possible and the dollars flow back into the St. Martin economy. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is not an option to remove that part of the reconstruction from the World Bank, because it has also been rigged up by an entire organisation. The funny thing is, the run-in was complicated. This had to do with all kinds of arrangements that had to be concluded, for example an establishment agreement that the government of St.Maarten had to conclude, so the World Bank can legally work well on St.Maarten. That took far too long. Covid got over it, so people weren't allowed to fly in and out. That made it complicated, too. But now those projects are finally getting steamed up. It wouldn't make sense to take it away from the World Bank now. The measures taken under the Consensus Law are also more structural measures, not just reconstruction, but much more sustainable public finances and the balance between revenue and expenditure. So I understand the question, but right now, while the trust fund is invested for the most part in concrete projects and expectations have been raised, it would not make sense to get it out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u157	I get that last part. I welcome the list of projects that are now coming out. In the last contacts with the parliamentarians on the other side, we heard great concern about this. In the context of this reflection: is this a recipe for repetition? Would you do it again in another situation? 'Cause it's hurricane season and God bless again. Or would you go to another construction when there is similar damage or perhaps less damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u158	The special thing is that if this were to happen again, everyone would know what is to be done and what is to be done with regard to legislation. That's the advantage. What we may have underestimated is that it is again here: it takes two to tango. In this case, of course, these are three parties: the Netherlands, the World Bank and Sint-Maarten. If you want to get projects off the ground on the island with the basics we have chosen, namely as many local companies and local jobs as possible, then you have to accept that sometimes it takes a little longer. But we have seen at the airport, for example, that there was a lack of political will; let me put it this way. At the dump it is also an issue that the knowledge and expertise are hardly available and that there was no follow-up. The ministries responsible, the Ministry of VROMI in this case, had insufficient executive power to do so themselves. So you can have a very capable World Bank with all the technical expertise, but if one on the other side of the partnership is not sufficiently receptive or lacks knowledge to respond, it does not work. That balance has to be sought. We may have thought too easily in the beginning that the country of Saint Martin should be able to do so. I think that's what people thought. We've found that we can't do it without adding expertise. That's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u159	Finally. That World Bank construction is a bit of a plan B, I'll say. Can you mention a few criteria that should be met if something like this can be done and implemented from government to government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u160	Mr. Rosenmöller, it is not the custom of us to tutoy the rulers in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u161	I think Mr Rosenmöller meant that differently, but he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u162	Then I misunderstood. I thought I heard it over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u163	I meant it in a general sense, Mr. Chairman. I would like this Secretary of State with this quality of reply and I have not dared to tutoy any experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u164	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u165	I do not think it will help in such a process as in the relationship between two countries the charge we have just mentioned, namely elements such as doubting the intentions and placing things in the perspective of postcolonial et cetera. That makes it all complicated. Sometimes you have to maneuver around somewhere to get to the goal. In a relationship where there are only two countries in the Kingdom, one of which has a problem as a result of a natural disaster, you might be able to organise it differently. There's a couple of bonds in here, though. In fact, it also has a lot to do with the discussion we have just had about autonomy. Of course, that disaster was huge. It can't carry any land the size of Saint Martin. But in the reconstruction and the things you can do, you need a certain execution force. Let me give you an example, Saba. That's a whole different order of things. That's a public body. They were able to do so very quickly, also with the help of the Netherlands, but still, to pick it up themselves. It is a smaller island with fewer inhabitants, but it did have the knowledge and skill to do so. Sint-Maarten was just a lot more complicated. With the knowledge of that time we had made the same decision, perhaps even with the knowledge of today. Only in the pre-stage, so before the start, you might need to strengthen the conditions that a country has to meet in order to make it a success, for example that establishment agreement and ensure that you have sufficient knowledge and skills. There we may have had too much confidence, as in the greater sense with the autonomy of the countries, that if you make an appointment, they will also fill it out. Then it's not always a matter of unwillingness. Sometimes it's also a matter of powerlessness. They'll sign, but they won't be able to deliver in the end. Then you ended up cleaning up no roof and no garbage. Further to Mr Dittrich's question on reconstruction, what we have done is as follows. In particular, he asked about the schools. He doesn't think it's gonna make any sense if I put it in my own words. At present, repairs have started at three priority schools. The tender for the next three schools is under preparation. The remaining 13 schools follow after restructuring the agreement between the World Bank and Sint-Maarten. This also requires additional funding. This is an example of a project that has gone on for far too long. There was a long run and a long preparation. It was in the Ministry of VROMI. We told them to make that inventory, because that is not what the World Bank is doing. They had to make the inventory of what was damaged and had to be repaired. That's the only thing that took me a long time to get loose. That was also because the Ministry of VROMI is ultimately quite a small department, not comparable to a ministry in the Netherlands, which had to do all kinds of things. This just didn't come up as a priority. A lot of time has been lost. In the end, we have also flown in an external expert who is currently doing so. Well, now it's working. It's been way too long. Of course, we started with the shelters. We've started with the highest priorities. Schools were not quite at the top, but are of course extremely important, especially in view of any new hurricanes, which of course you can never rule out. Then I come to the third block of the four: a number of questions concerning the BES. Mr Dittrich wondered about the plans for Bonaire as a Blue Destination. Blue Destination is a wonderful concept, I think. It's really from the island. That's what they came up with; we didn't think of it for them. But then you also have to take a number of measures with regard to wastewater management and coral protection in order to achieve that asset of diving and beautiful nature in the future. You're gonna have to invest in that. Within the framework of the Envelope Region, we have released 7.2 million for the implementation of the coral recovery plan. Another part that is currently running, also with tourist organisations, is certification of destinations and tourist locations as Blue Destination destination. They are tested against a number of labels to see whether they meet sustainability and environmental requirements and whether they handle raw materials in a good way. I feel that it is still in its infancy, but I think it is a very strong concept or idea. But fair is fair, it's still too much of a concept and too little load. In discussions with the public body, I insisted on making it more concrete. Bonaire is now also working on a master plan in which they want to focus on sustainability. That goes hand in hand with wanting to grow, how many want to grow, what is needed for that. These are choices that the public body itself has to make in the first instance, but it does not hurt to use knowledge and skills from the Netherlands in that area too. That is what we have been asking for in the meantime. Once again, this is a very important element in the governance agreement. Mr Recourt, Mr Dittrich, Mr Van der Burg and Mrs Oomen asked about what is being done for the Caribbean Netherlands when it comes to the aid packages, the recovery and how it looks. What's that gonna look like after July 1st was also the question. How can we continue to support the economy there? Mutatisively, the Caribbean Netherlands is the same as the countries, namely that they are largely dependent on tourism. Only, they fall under the umbrella of the Netherlands. That's what we've been working for. I am very proud that there was broad support in the cabinet for the same arrangements as in the European Netherlands to apply to the Caribbean Netherlands. Not quite the same because the arrangements are sometimes a bit different, but at the core they are. Then you should think about the wage subsidy scheme and the subsidies for fixed charges. They've all been translated. This also applies to the expiry date of July 2021. This is the same end date as for the Netherlands. Caribbean Netherlands is also included in every decision-making by the Dutch cabinet on European Netherlands. I cannot anticipate in general terms how this is going after July, but the same principles will apply to the Caribbean and the European Netherlands. That is an important starting point, I think, because with that there is also full recognition for their position within our country. Mr Dittrich asked what the governance agreement has achieved so far. That was also an agreement that did not come about entirely without fireworks. There was broad support, but some people's explanation was that the Netherlands came to take over. That was not the case at all. This played in the period after the intervention on Sint-Eustatius. I am very pleased that we have reached a number of agreements together with the public body. There's a program manager on it. I have already mentioned a few examples that are the result of this. First of all, we looked at how to strengthen the official organisation, so more administrative power. This is important to translate the political ambitions into implementation, quite simply. That sounds very simple and self-evident, but it hasn't always been on Bonaire. A job centre has been set up together with the Ministry of SZW. That was before Corona. There, people looking for a job can get advice about their job and career opportunities. Then affordable homes; 500 social rental homes, which is really a breakthrough with the local housing corporation FCB. There are 76 ready now. I've been visiting, too. Beautiful apartments. At the moment we are working on the realization of the next phases. A bill has now been passed, also by this Chamber, on the rent committee on Bonaire. A pilot mortgage guarantee has been launched. All kinds of things that we think have added value to Bonaire, in this case, we roll out. Everything you prefer in the European Netherlands, I always say, we keep it here, because we don't have to export all the laws to the Caribbean Netherlands. There is no need for that. Only if it helps, if it adds something. Many improvements have been made around agriculture and the slaughterhouse. I went there on my last visit. There they really try to create new forms of lease local entrepreneurship, often on small pieces of land. If you get bigger, you're successful, you can farm in other places. I think it's very good to reduce dependency. The infrastructure is a big problem on Bonaire. You don't have to put thresholds there because the roads themselves already slow down the speed. But that also has disadvantages and sometimes causes dangerous situations. That is why there has been considerable investment in infrastructure, especially around schools, and that is going to happen much more. That is really starting to happen, also with knowledge from the Netherlands. Around the board, the operation of the island council, a clerk has flown in from Maassluis. He'll back up the clerk there. We really try to take people with us by coaching on the spot and train them step by step, to get the board to a higher level. Finally, and not unimportant with regard to the governance agreement, and I am very pleased that we have continued to do so, we are also looking at how to keep talent on the islands, or even sometimes to allow it to return. So these are young Bonairians who, for example, have studied in the Netherlands or in another country, and who want to come back after a number of years to work for, for example, the electricity company or for the local government. And these people do a program with each other, a talent development program. BZK supports that. We have been doing this for five years now, and that simply results in very good results, so that people also have support for each other to give an impetus to governance with modern education and backgrounds. Every time I'm there, I'd also like to invite you to do that. I'm going to talk to those young people, with those lights, because it's always very inspiring to see what people are moving to commit to their own island.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u166	At this point I also had a question about the programme BES(t) 4 kids, but it might fit in with the answer you want to give, so let me ask you another question. Speaking of Bonaire, I've missed the position of the library. The library is said to be a place where you not only need to borrow books, but you also need to make it a centre where people can take training courses so that they don't have to come to the Netherlands but can follow those courses, and also a centre for innovative developments. Can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u167	Yes. I suggest that I return to that in the second term; you will receive a more precise answer than what I would now give. BES(t) 4 kids, I can give you an answer to that, because that is indeed a programme that the ministries of SZW, OCW and VWS, and BZK, have picked up together with UNICEF. That's just a really nice show, I think. Very concrete on the ground provide demonstrable results. But one of the parts of it is child care. Very important, of course, to facilitate this well, to give children a flying start and equal opportunities, at a very young age. 8 million have also been made available under the Region of Envelope Caribbean Netherlands. And there is a temporary subsidy scheme in force from 1 July last year, with the aim of reducing the costs of childcare for parents and enabling childcare organisations to bear the costs of quality improvements. I think those are very important things, because you see big differences on Bonaire. It is a beautiful island, but you also see poverty, you see children with educational disadvantages at a young age, and of course we want to prevent that. We just want to give them all the same opportunities, and that starts with a well-equipped childcare. So that program is running. Mr Schalk and Mr Raven have also asked questions about the Small-Scale Report. The question was: when will the report be followed up? That is what Mr Schalk asked. The results of that Ter Haar report, because that is the one who presided over that committee, were part of that broad programme cabinet response, ibo, Council of State. So that is Mr Recourt's report, so I say briefly, and the opinion of the Council of State, and this is specifically about utilities. In the coming months, the various analyses and findings will be brought together so that the open points of discussion can be dealt with in full with public bodies, because we are really going to do this together with public bodies. Those recommendations are of course input for these talks, and as a final part of this decision-making process, each island will thus be able to draw up different implementation agendas for each island in order to respond to the various fundamental questions raised in that report. And it is up to the next cabinet to draw final conclusions in all these areas, together with public bodies. Mr Raven asked if I would see anything in one government-level utility, which is also mentioned in that report. In the recommendations Ter Haar does not draw the conclusion that this would be the solution; it could be a solution. In particular, he recommended that the various utilities and seaports should operate without political interference. We had a whole discussion at Bonaire about government N.V.s. And in itself, I would almost like to say, you cannot be in principle in favour of it or against it, but that also depends a little on how close the administration and the politics are to those NSAs and whether or not it meets the task and the societal goals it aims to achieve. I think it is right to include all these points and modalities in the discussion that is now going to take place with the public authorities and also to choose the best way to organise this. But you are right that the issue of seaports and airports for small public bodies, such as Saba or Saint Eustatius but also Bonaire with its international airport, is often quite big and that it is good that the departments here in the Netherlands are also involved. We have done this recently with all kinds of steering groups around fuel supply on Bonaire, for example, and what is also an issue that really cannot be solved by the island itself. But there we also sit at the table with IenW and EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u168	Besides, you've divided it over several islands. There you could also make the control a little more distant. It's probably gonna give you more leverage. Now you can see it's actually organized by island. I think an umbrella could offer advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u169	In itself, from an organizational perspective, I can follow that. I don't know if you've been to the islands, but when you get there, you'll see that they're all completely different, they're still very far apart, and the perception on the islands themselves is often different. They're all BES. They are all public bodies, but it is a difference whether you are downwind on Bonaire or 1,000 kilometers away on Saba or Sint-Eustatius, not from an organizational point of view but from ownership. We all have to take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u170	That shareholdership could be expressed by greater commitment. What also struck me in the report is that I didn't really ask a question about it. I thought that was weird, because we've only been ten years. I assume you delivered it to zero at the time, so how can you have much overdue maintenance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u171	This is partly due to the way in which funding is carried out. Part of this goes through the ministries and is occasionally pushed in. That has also happened in recent years. Moreover, on the basis of this agreement on infrastructure, 5 million has been added to the provision for the BES. The hurricanes are of course also occasionally solved, because you cannot guarantee against that. But for Bonaire, for example, there was money, but it was not used. So the public body had reserved money for infra projects, but they never came to fruition, or the maintenance was never done. Then you've got a problem, too. So it's not always just a matter of money. It is often a little more complicated, but I have just said in the first part of the answer that I see that it is very difficult financially when it comes to the question: can the BES islands do what they have to do on the basis of the mission? Often the Envelope Region or other incidental facilities need to be added. That doesn't exactly fit in with rational management and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u172	Mr. Raven, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u173	With regard to this zero measurement, was a zero measurement made at the time? That wasn't in the report, but I'm assuming it's been transferred one-on-one, where finances are arranged for the overdue maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u174	The Secretary of State, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u175	Normally that would be the case, but I have to come back to the question of whether and how this was calculated in 2010 in the political reforms. Perhaps a calculation has been made, I honestly do not know, and it has subsequently proved too little. It could be. I will come back to that in second place. Then a few questions were asked about Saint Eustatius, by Mr Van der Burg, Mr Schalk and Mr Raven. Mr Schalk said that I mentioned the three-stroke. I'm gonna have to get him: to stabilize, to normalize and to democratize. He asked if I could look back on that: how did that go? We did, of course, intervene at that time because there really was reason to do so, such as ignoring legislation applicable to public bodies for years and arbitrariness. Think also of public finances. Not that there were deficits, but the state of the infrastructure of the roads was lousy. There were problems with waste disposal. There were problems everywhere, including in the official organisation. Of course this has to do with the small scale, but on the other hand Saba shows how it can be done. So it's not just the small scale. But there was reason to intervene. Then we said: we must return to a normal situation after we have intervened. This can't go on indefinitely. We want to show that perspective on democracy again. This led to the Recovery Provisions Act, which was adopted on 8 July 2020. On that basis, elections were held in October 2020, during corona time. That was, in retrospect, one could say, a test for how to organise elections in corona time. Those elections led to the installation of a new island council. And indeed, Mr Rosenmöller is right, the same members who were on the council at the time are now back in it, but that is democracy. That has really been the will of the people on Saint-Eustatius, but I tasted a slightly different undertone with Mr Rosenmöller. On the basis of the Özütok motion, a table is currently being drawn up to see what intermediate results we can move to next phases, next milestones. In the progress report that will be sent to your Chamber in May, we will look into this and present the latest state of affairs. Then there is Mr Van Rij's departure. Mr Van Rij has asked me to resign him because of the appeal he has made from a different angle. At the time, we chose the figure of a government commissioner and a deputy government commissioner. This means that someone can be replaced in case of illness or "being off island." That's what's going on right now. Mrs Alida Fancis, the Deputy Government Commissioner, will take over Van Rij's duties. We're gonna see how we can fill in the vacancy. We're trying to do that in the short term, but this is all fresh from the press, so I don't have a new candidate yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u176	This was almost entrapment of the Secretary of State. I did ask that question. There's a certain board of directors. That board doesn't deliver and even performs so badly, you have to intervene. This has been unanimously supported here and across the street. Then there is an interim situation for two years, in which the Netherlands does a lot of things. Then there will be elections and that same board will come back. Can you just say that that's democracy? Is that the only thing? That is certainly democracy, of course, but shouldn't you also think about what we have actually achieved? Because it's about doing it with the people, isn't it? Those are your words, too, and they're taken from my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u177	That is certainly democracy. You can try to point that out, give a political explanation. You can, but that's only half the story. You could indeed say: we have made a leap in time, but everything is exactly the same. The opposite is true, because over the past two and a half years we have done a great deal to put public finances in order. We've invested a lot there. It's really very large numbers, in the area of the airport, the cliff, erosion approach. We have done so not only with money, but also with capacities that were not available on the island itself or too little. We have also solved some of the problems experienced by the people there. But our goal has never been to take over permanently. We want to go back to the situation where people can make their own choices. There was quite some tension, because from the Lower House and also from this Chamber the question was: should we not have that democratic deficit for too long, should we not now give people the choice to elect their own representatives? Coincidentally or not, there really were more people on the list. These people are going to be there again. The question that matters to me now is: are the Government Commissioner and his deputy, together with the Island Council, able to move on to the next phase? Are they able to do not only all the things that are needed in a public body, around finance, ICT management, roads, building houses, etc., but also to get into a culture in which you get back that interplay of dualism, of an island council with delegates, in a subsequent phase, and an authority? Because that's the end goal. That's waiting. I have to tell you, I... in recent weeks, I've heard members of the island council criticize us for doing this. They say it's not as good now as it ever was. Actually, it's not. We can just prove that. We have photos from before and after. The island is better and more resilient. But it's also about the question: are you willing, even there, to reflect on your own position or are you going to broadcast the same message as before 2018? I don't think that's a good idea. For the time being, however, I assume that we can take steps forward each time. As long as we can, we can move on to the next phase. If we can't, we can't. So it is also up to the island itself to show that they mean business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u178	I'd still like to invite you to go deeper. I am well aware that this is a very delicate issue, because it is about democracy on an island that belongs to the Netherlands. The people have spoken. That's for sure. But we have intervened for a certain reason. Things have happened. And then you get the same board back. That should not really lead to a discussion about the democratic process. In the end, it is about the question: have we managed to reach the people sufficiently and convince them of the progress we have wanted to make in their interests? That should then be done in a certain way, and you should be very careful to say that it should have its reflection on such a result of the elections. Without you possibly being allowed to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u179	I understand very well what Mr Rosenmöller is saying. This implies, moreover, a certain ratio which I have not always seen in the last election campaign in the Netherlands: that if you explain it correctly, that leads to more seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u180	This is delicate enough as it is. Let's not talk about this part of the Netherlands. Let's talk about that little island. That's complicated enough as it is. So try to narrow that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u181	I understand that. But by making this equation, I want to immediately indicate how complicated such an analysis is. If then the question is whether we have not been able to explain to people why we did this and that we want to return as soon as possible, you could question that. I am currently missing the deeper analysis for this. On the basis of the outcome of the elections, you could say: that did not work. That's a little short. But I can't look into people's heads. We haven't done any research either. Some sort of after-election analysis of Maurice de Hond or so why people have made certain choices. I don't know. I think it is important, and I think that there is also a task. You have also had the handicap of not being able to go there to judge, on the basis of the facts, whether or not what we have done there was right and whether the situation subsequently justified the intervention. It is an intervention which was unanimously supported by both parliaments, also with the aim of returning to normal as soon as possible. But I don't know exactly how that path will continue from now on and how quickly that normalized situation will return. So that remains something to be extremely alert about in the coming period, not only for me or for the government Commissioner, but also for the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u182	I would like to continue with Mr Rosenmöller's question. I am not questioning the intervention because that was logical; it was to be done, but the way in which it was acted on Saint-Eustatius. How did the government Commissioner and the others who appointed the Netherlands try to get the people to join us? You can take a picture of what it was like and what it's like now, and say, look, there are improvements. Then people leave. Van Rij is leaving. What then has descended into the population on the basis of which they say: hey, we should do it differently? What has been the approach of the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u183	At least the board, in this case the Government Commissioner and the Deputy Government Commissioner, has done a great deal about it over the past period, through townhall meetings and by radio, to tell us what the intentions are and what happened. Radio is of course very important there. There are no newspapers. It's mostly Facebook and radio stations. Politics is also very active there with all kinds of own radio stations. Every night there are programs to listen to. I get the transcripts of those programs sometimes. There are a lot of things in there, including vaccination, for example, that just don't add up. What are you gonna do about that? How do you try to get to the level of facts and fiction? It's very complicated. People may eventually choose freely, they may have a free opinion about how they feel it happened. And perhaps emotions also play a role, something we talked about earlier in the direction of Sint-Maarten in relation to the Netherlands. They've been there for a long time. I don't know. I find it complicated to let go of the analysis here and now. What I can say in the direction of Mr Dittrich is that we will have a closer look at this in particular. I believe that this is also good for the debate that may still come with the May report. I am happy to discuss this with your Chamber and, of course, to ask the Government Commissioner to clarify it. This concerns the question of what exactly that is and, above all, how we can prevent the creation of some kind of image that it is now worse than it was. So it really isn't. In fact, you can prove very well what has happened over the past few years. But I'm also not completely deaf to the rhetoric I hear from time to time. That's talking to people, isn't it? I do. I spoke with all the members of the island council the last time I was there. Of course, I spoke with the government commissioner. I also spoke to people who work there, not only with ordinary citizens but also with people who work in companies and organisations. I always talk to him. There you can hear other sounds. So it's really not that the sound you hear on the island council is always the sound that lives among the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u184	I would like to inform you that on the island there is a saying: why has there never been any sort of townhall meeting? It is about a meeting where a lot of residents could get together, explaining the plans and asking: what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u185	They're organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u186	Well, it is said on the island that this has been done to a very limited extent and in a small circle, but not for those who are normally already difficult to reach. So it would be an opportunity in the future to see how you can turn directly to the people to prevent all kinds of untruths or untruths from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u187	I think that is a valid point. I suggest that I return to that in May in that report. In the meantime, we'll try to go deeper and see what it's in. But as far as I'm aware, there have been townhall meetings. That's the advantage of a small scale. I've done them myself a number of times. Not everyone could be there, but it will be broadcast, so you can reach a lot of people very directly. We are completely transparent about what we are doing. We have nothing to hide. In fact, it would be very strange if we were not transparent about that. Everything we do and what we have in input and output can be shared. It is also very visible. I'll take that element, how is it experienced there, how is it perceived? The following report shall include in detail: I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u188	Thank you very much for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u189	I would like to go a little further, if I may. I would ask the Secretary of State not to consider it a reproach. I believe that the Secretary of State has acted very decisively. Only, if we look back at the whole process, we'll see that we might have dropped a few stings. I'm not just referring to here. Look also at the results of the election on Curaçao. Of course, we don't know what's going on in Aruba or what's coming. My question is: when you do that report later, do you want to try to see what didn't happen and what we might have done if we looked back? Well, I think it's in contact with the resident after all. Townhall meetings are one way. From my political experience, I know that when I went to one night of politics, for example about paid parking, it was always one-way traffic. You could say you were against it. People just stopped going at some point. So has there been a real conversation? Would the Secretary of State like to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u190	Sure. I had hoped that the efforts we have made with the population there would have led to a more positive picture. I cannot say that it is not now, but I do notice that those elected to the island council are very critical of what is going on. I sometimes hear the same lyrics about this as three years ago, when things have really changed. So I see this as an assignment to ourselves to see where we can do even better. The townhall meeting is a very low-threshold meeting, but if people experience that they can hardly ask a question... I myself have been in the town hall a number of times and have answered questions there. It took hours. That wasn't a problem, but it doesn't mean you'll agree on everything in the end. For example, there is quite a lot of discussion about how to deal with the goats. There are a lot of goats on St.Eustatius, but they also eat everything bare, causing the rock face to collapse. That's the kind of trouble you have to name. But at the same time you also have something cultural about the island, where people say: that's always been the case; those goats run everywhere, they belong to certain people and they must be able to walk anywhere. That can't go hand in hand. That's the kind of discussion you get sometimes. But I, the government commissioner and his deputy are completely open and want to see how we can do this better. So I see this as a broad appeal from your side, which I like to pick up, to see what is missing and how we can make people feel that they are being heard. That island council is formal. That's right. That is also part of the Return Act, so to speak. It doesn't have all the powers an island council would normally have. It is therefore true that it has been democratically elected at the moment, but that it does not yet have all the powers of an island council. This has to do with the fact that we have said in that law: we are going to build in a number of stages, not so much time-related, but more outcome-related. Once you've reached that level, you're going to the next stage. That is to end up with a kind of gradual return, because the risk of an immediate return, namely that you fall back to the old situation, would have been much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u191	The story of the goats reminds me of the time China was discovered. I believe it was the English who thought: this is a fantastic market, we are going to bring here knife, fork and spoon. You can understand that it never did. That's because they had figured out what had to happen and asked instead what was needed. My question is therefore: see if any questions have been asked about what is needed rather than what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u192	You hadn't been to Saint Eustatius yet, had you? There's a lot of goats there. In itself, that's not a problem, you'd say. But if it really means that the cliff on which Fort Orange stands is about to collapse and that we have now had to invest between 5 and 10 million, I say out of my mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u193	I wasn't specifically talking about the goats, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u194	But that's the point, you see. It's not so much about those goats. Those goats are a problem. Not on their own, but in what they do. So you can put them in a separate area. We're not saying all goats should go. In any case, we must prevent them from continuing to contribute to erosion, because that is, of course, a major problem. I never thought I'd talk about goats in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u195	This was enough, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u196	I was also surprised that we had ended up on the goat path by now. Let me return to the question I asked about stabilising, normalizing and democratizing. That is what happened in that very loaded debate at the time. It was a very far-reaching decision, which, in my view, was supported by the whole Chamber here. I am very pleased that we heard from the Secretary of State that when you are democratising at some point you will have elections and then you will be back to the situation you want to go to. I have a feeling now that we have had that election, but we have not yet reached the real democratization stage. In other words, what is the state of affairs towards the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u197	It is true what Mr Schalk says. We agreed with that Law on Restoration Provisions Saint Eustatius, which was adopted last July, also in this Chamber, that, according to a certain phase, full democracy would be restored, if you could put it that way. The election of the island council was the first step and per phase is defined which the public body and also the politics must comply with in order to be able to move to the next stage. We have consciously done this step by step. It describes exactly what needs to be met. That's very transparent in the front. The moment you meet it, you can move on to the next phase. In the debate at the time, the question was: how long will that take? I can't answer that. I hope as soon as possible, but I will look, also on the basis of that law, at what is actually being achieved. So if you move faster to the next stage, you'll also be faster in full democracy. The tendency in The Hague is often very strong to add certain time provisions, but then there is also the risk that something will happen on the basis of that planning when you are not really ready. The parallel with the discussion of the autonomous countries...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That was a political decision, but in fact we are still dealing with it today. On Curaçao that is something else, because there was the government center of the Antilles. I am therefore very much in favour of care. I understand the call for full democracy, but I would also like to propose that we stick to what we ourselves have agreed by law and, again, which is also very transparent and insightful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u198	Totally. Those steps are agreed, but you can temporize. You can speed them up if that's possible. I shall come back to Mr Rosenmöller's question. He asked: "It is the same governance as before. Does that delay the matter as far as you are concerned, or is that not the case?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u199	No. I wouldn't say that. What we have had to deal with, however, is that because of covid Sint-Eustatius, like Saba by the way, for a very long time was not really accessible to people from outside. This has delayed a number of infrastructure projects, but that is not a question of more than six months. I certainly wouldn't say that the island council is currently a sta-in-the-way. I only hear sounds from time to time about how certain things are appreciated and that is not something to be very happy about, because I think the real results are better than what is said about them. Anyway, we just talked about that. I think we need to communicate more about this and make it clear what is going on. But it's not the island council. However, it is the administrative apparatus where certain functions were simply vacant, which could not be filled due to the travel restrictions. And yes, you want to put a public body in order that was in very neglected condition, with, for example, all regulations, all ICT and all finances. That's pretty complicated, even if it's just a small island. And don't forget: it's not just about money, it's not about the will. On an island like Sint-Eustatius there are a lot of expertises around public administration just not available. So you're dependent on people on the outside. We have often had the discussion about outsiders, and about people who want to work there for a long time. And we have noticed: that is not so simple. So maybe we have been a little too optimistic about that, but I still have confidence that we could be in the stage of full democracy in the foreseeable future. That's also the end goal. Finally, I come to the block of other questions, Mr President. I would like to begin with Mr Recourt's question on the Statute. He actually called it a structural problem. The statute is here. It's been there a long time. Mr Recourt is in fact in favour of having a sit-down on this matter within the Kingdom. And he's pleading for you to go see how you can fix that. I certainly agree with Mr Recourt when he says that there is a Statute and that it is certainly not perfect. Nor is it always fully equipped for the situation we are in today, for today's political dynamism and for geopolitical relations in the world. That is also the reason why the House of Representatives has adopted a motion for a resolution, with which the Chamber says to look at it again, and to examine the responsibilities within the Kingdom and the Statute. Of course, I need the cooperation of the other three countries. So I've asked the other countries to cooperate. This has led to positive reactions. I didn't get a reaction right away, but the political dynamics in the countries sometimes cause it to take a little longer. At least I hope that we can start that route quickly. You can imagine that at the moment we are mainly putting out the fire. We're working on that COHO right now. We're working on the country packages. We're still in the middle of financial supervision with Aruba. We are trying to prevent a disaster from happening in Curaçao because people cannot be treated. All the effort is focused on that. So I hope we can make a start at this point around the summer. But I say again that we also depend on whether the countries are going to think about it. And I say again: an amendment to the Statute can always be possible, but therefore requires the consent of all countries within the Kingdom. Mr Recourt has also asked whether I am prepared to look at the extent to which there are currently obstacles in the relationship with the countries resulting from the colonial past. He also asked me to prepare and finance that research. As you know, last year the Consultative College set up a dialogue group on slavery. This is the task of shaping the dialogue on the past of slavery and its impact on Dutch society and the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I would like to wait and see the results of this dialogue group. This consultative body will, of course, come up with something that could perhaps be the basis for Mr Recourt's request. But at the moment I cannot see the extent and scope of it. Therefore, I do not see any added value at the moment in launching a separate investigation, as Mr Recourt asks. Nor does it seem to me that I should now give a positive opinion on this, given the status of the cabinet and the background of the dialogue group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u200	I am not aware of the task of the dialogue group. I can imagine that my group's question does not belong to that. Anyway, I understand the Secretary of State's position. That could be a stepping stone. Background to my question is mainly to start that conversation, because this is really a pink elephant in the room. Let me get it on my own: I've started to think differently about the colonial past and how we stand in it. I've been looking into myself, what am I gonna take with me? I think that's a process of our time. I don't think I'm alone in this because I'm a kid of my time. So I'm asking the Secretary of State at least where he meets that, not to get out of the way and encourage that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u201	You can expect that from me. I said at the beginning of my introduction that I entered the Kingdom file blankly, or neutrally, without prejudice or bias or anything. In retrospect, I consider it a gift that I was allowed to do this. When I got it, I had no idea what it would mean. I've been diving into it and I've been talking to a lot of people and getting to know people, 8,000 kilometers away, who sometimes reason from a totally different history. What strikes me when you talk about it, when you talk about it with respect, is that's a lot to talk about. So the question is: 'Well, maybe I'm ahead of your research question and the answers that should come out of it or the real problem is that we don't understand each other or that this issue is sometimes used for political reasons.' In the contacts I have with my counterparts that sounds so negative, because I don't consider them counterparts; there are people that I now regard as friends and who I have seen from their responsibility over the years to develop the islands, I have had very open conversations about this. They are enriching, because I too have found out things I haven't known before. I've never experienced it as an obstacle or a standing-in-the-way or an obstacle, as you said, in the contacts. I've seen people I didn't know, for example, throw up this point, but with the people you have the conversations with, who you also get to know personally, and with whom you see at some point what your common motivation is, that's far less. So unknown makes unloved, even in this, but that's just my personal experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u202	But it is precisely in order to assess whether the accusations that sometimes come to light or are wrong that sometimes I also think: that is completely wrong... you have to dig deeper into it. Anyway, I said we're gonna wait and see. Then the follow-up question: do you know when that... what was the name of that group again? I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u203	Advisory college on dialogue group on slavery history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u204	Look! When do they come up with a report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u205	I'll check it out for you. You will receive an answer to that in the second term. It was established under the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I'll check that out. Then there are a number of questions about the situation with the rule of law, refugees, asylum procedures and detention facilities of Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Dittrich and Mr Van der Burg. In essence, that is what I have also answered to many of Parliament's questions, namely that they are matters of the country. I have just said in the first part of my speech that it is very often also referring to the Kingdom, a sort of redres. If the countries themselves are unable to do so, then the Netherlands, also as part of the Kingdom, will be called upon to do so. This has also resulted in us saying, in the context of the situation that was quite eminent in 2019, when all kinds of things happened in Venezuela and the pressure was enormous: we need to join the Netherlands here. At that time, the Spring Paper 2019 released an amount of almost 24 million euros to focus on a number of elements. First of all, strengthening maritime borders. There were still a lot of gaps left and right, so you can see that people are wrongly reaching the coast and are not being spotted prematurely or arriving illegally, with all the problems of that. Two. There has been investment in the foreign chain and in the foreign detention, on Curaçao in particular, but also on Aruba. What we have done with this is to finance facilities on the hardware side as well as on the knowledge side to check with the experts from the Netherlands whether the procedures are well organised, are ECHR proof and whether we can rightly say that the procedures are designed in such a way that people, if they report, receive proper treatment. Then, for example, it is very simple about things like the interrogation techniques you apply, the decision-making techniques, how people are trained to deal with them. That is very important, because we found out, moreover, that the countries themselves also had very little knowledge in this area. We did not set up proper procedures for this in advance, also because they were not really involved or, as I said earlier, because in the years before, when the situation in Venezuela was not so acute, there were all family relationships. People just traveled over and over and just came to work on the islands. That is also one of the points that we have now identified in the national packages. If you are seriously aiming for a labour market with social security, with a package and some kind of safety net, then you should also name it. You can't use cheap migrants on the one hand when the sun shines and when it rains say: we don't know them; they don't get help. As a government, you need to think about how you're gonna handle it. So we support them wherever they can, by the way, in good consultation with the countries. We made good agreements on this at the time and they were also very happy about it. However, it is true that the countries are primarily accountable and also responsible for the procedures and for their proper application. The Netherlands can assist in the second instance, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u206	I think a number of colleagues can remember the conversations we had at the Coral Specht prison, where the barracks were and where people have been for a long time. Those are images that don't go off your retina. I'm sure you've been there yourself. One of those elements is that Curaçao is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention. Does the Netherlands now think that the country of Curaçao would do well to reconsider that and to comply with that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u207	The most important thing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u208	It's okay with yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u209	Yeah, no that... However, I would like to say a step back in the direction of Mr Rosenmöller. It is up to the countries themselves to settle this in an orderly manner. What matters to me is that you adhere to the guidelines that apply to the Netherlands, whether you sign that treaty or not. That's what we're trying to do right now. I understand that this signature is very important, but it's about whether or not you've applied the proper procedures. It's really up to the land of Curaçao to do that. Moreover, the AIV opinion makes a number of comments, including on how international conventions are implemented in different countries. Quite a few comments have been made. So it could be better. However, it does not seem appropriate to me to ask Curaçao at this stage. I think it is much more important that the practical implementation of the ECHR is proof, that existing deficits are identified, that they are dealt with and that they are dealt with. In all the questions I have answered on this subject, the Members of Parliament also have contacts and encounters people, and human rights organisations are reporting to me, and I cannot do anything else, because we have no authority and power of perseverance on the ground to say: you are not doing well. It must be based on the voluntary nature of the countries. We think it is a very important subject. I have raised this on a regular basis in the talks with the prime ministers. But we have said that it is up to the countries themselves. We want to help the countries and make funds available, but they must then be compliant or act in accordance with these conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u210	That's a pretty long answer, isn't it? I can very well imagine you're taking a slightly less formal approach than yours. I believe that the country of the Netherlands is in favour of as many countries as possible joining the UN Refugee Convention. Then why shouldn't you just answer the question of whether Curaçao should be connected, as a country in our Kingdom, in the affirmative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u211	Because we just had a whole discussion about autonomy and what could and could not be said for or on behalf of the countries. I think that the countries where it is up to them, on the basis of the Statute to which they relate, should simply take that responsibility. I do not disagree with Mr Rosenmöller when he says that it would be "good if." But it is not for me, in my position, to judge that now. It's not my place to tell Curaçao what to do or what not to do. What matters to the Netherlands is that these procedures have been properly implemented. We are going to talk about the AIV opinion. We have already agreed on this, because there are more treaties that are still in the drawer somewhere. So it seems to me that it is a good point to take this issue further with the countries, but I have already said that, in the current situation, in the midst of a crisis, it does not seem to me to be the most priority issue. I think it is important that within the Kingdom we deal in an orderly and humane manner with people seeking asylum or saying that they are applying for asylum and that we separate people coming to the Kingdom for migration purposes and people who are really entitled to protection. I think that's what it should be about right now, right now. I would like to make this point once in contact with the countries, but that is what we should do in the process of that AIV report, because there are more things that this could apply to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u212	I think we will get out in the third round of this little interrupt debate. 'Cause if you'd promise us that, I'd be happy to say. This does not affect the autonomy of the countries. This is really just about the movement between countries in the Kingdom as it is in the European Union, where you ask things of each other without interpreting that question as an intervention in the autonomy of a country in the EU or in this case a country in our own Kingdom. The final question would then be whether you can guarantee that, in my view, you are doing that: that the way we deal with refugees is actually EVRM proof. 'Cause that's what it's about, of course, in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u213	If you are asking me now whether I can guarantee that, then I suppose that I too would bear or could bear the responsibility for that. I can't, because this is the responsibility of the country. But I can say that we are doing everything we can, including with our people, to ensure that these procedures are properly organized there. But we need to be very precise about where those responsibilities lie. When Mr Rosenmöller asks me to give guarantees, I assume that I would have the power to do so. I don't have one. However, in the context of the guarantee function, it is always possible to address the Kingdom at the end of the day in the event that there is no remedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u214	Finally, Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u215	You're absolutely right, Mr. President. The Secretary of State is also right about the division of responsibility. But then we'll finish it. Then we say that you are endeavouring to appeal to the autonomous country of Curaçao as much as possible, so that it is indeed ECHR proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u216	That seems to me to be a nice summary of what we are already doing in our contacts with the countries. I would therefore like to broaden it slightly, because, on the basis of the AIV report, there are a number of treaties on which this discussion should be conducted, precisely because it affects the whole of the Kingdom. It is also in the Dutch interest to address these kinds of subjects and to encourage the countries where necessary and to address the fact that one is part of a kingdom with all the rights and duties associated with it. Then there is Mr Raven's question, but it has actually been answered a bit. It was about interparliamentary contacts. They're very important in a kingdom. I think it is right in difficult times that these contacts are on several levels. They're intense sometimes. Now with the digital meetings they are arranged in a different way, but therefore no less intensive, I understand. We do so at government level, but it is very important that the parliaments have these contacts among themselves. When I am in the countries, I have regular contact with the parliamentarians. Mr Van der Burg's question was about what will happen next in Curaçao. That's equally unclear right now. The greatest victor, the MFF, and its political leader are absent for a while. We are therefore in contact with the MFF and PNP negotiating delegation. They're in the middle of a coalition agreement right now. It not only unfolds the plans for the coming years, but also forms a cabinet. I don't know what time it's gonna play. But I am currently in contact with both the Rhuggenaath Government and the incoming Prime Minister and Ministers. The first contact took place in detail last week. I have to say, that was a good talk. Let's just stick with that. It was also positive from both sides in the sense that the intention was expressed to maintain the relationship between the two countries. That will be quite a challenge, especially with the statements made in the campaign. But I'm an optimistic man, so I'm assuming that with the new government of Curaçao we can also come to good things. Again, this is also in the interest of the people on Curaçao itself. Members Gerkens and Oomen asked about the role of the Netherlands in strengthening the democratic rule of law, also in relation to the country package. How can we ensure that the rule of law is properly implemented in these autonomous countries? I think that even a well-functioning rule of law is a precondition for being an autonomous country. The country packages include a structural amount of EUR 45 million for the three countries to strengthen the rule of law. Among other things, the joint approach to undermining and cross-border crime within the Kingdom is being given considerable impetus, because of course there is a great deal going on in that area. One example of this is the new protocol to strengthen border control, signed by the four countries within the Kingdom on 4 February, which provides the basis for improved and strengthened cooperation throughout that chain. Mr Dittrich asked a question about the dispute settlement. I had discussed it with the chairman of the KOREL committee, but I do not think that you have achieved it quite yet. I can still do that here. It is intended that you will be able to receive the response by next Friday at the latest. There's one small but, and that's that I'm talking to the countries right now. They have to look at that and respond to it. If there's a kink in the cable somewhere, it's gonna be later. But I think it will succeed in sending it to you on Friday. Mr Beuker spoke of 5D. I only know the 3D approach, but the 5D has two extra dimensions. They all spoke to me, I must say: dreams, thinking, daring, doing and persevering. In doing so, Mr Beuker says that realism and viability are important. That is a very pragmatic approach. I think it always works when you're talking about the problems we're talking about. Ultimately, it is about results for people: how do you get as much effect as possible with limited resources in a limited time? Mr Beuker advocated the deployment of a joint venture agreement fund aimed at the islands of the Kingdom. He asked for my point of view. The reforms that need to be implemented are not just reforms that the countries themselves need to implement. They are also accompanied by a package of investments. It's different from country to country. This is true of the size, although there is still a common denominator. But at least the destination per country is different. This also has to do with the greatest needs in the various countries. So the countries are primarily committed to getting public finances in order, so that they can also invest in public services. And by making cuts in places where that can be done, you can free up resources for new investments. The Netherlands has done so itself, and the countries will have to do so. In addition, it is possible to make investments and access to private capital and private investment possible for the countries. This is also one of the objectives of the COHO that we are still discussing. However, the funds added from the Dutch budget are limited. We still talk on average about some 40 million per country as a starting point. That is a lot of money, but of course these are not very large amounts. The newly created Invest-NL, the Dutch Invest-NL, focuses only on investments in the Netherlands, including in the Caribbean Netherlands, but it does not have the ability to make investments on the countries. However, this could be done with the joint venture agreements, such as Invest International. There are good opportunities. Invest International can support Dutch companies to invest, for example in emerging markets abroad. This can be done in the Caribbean countries. That's what we're talking to right now. Exploratory talks are taking place on this subject. What matters here again is that you can appeal to the kingdom entity. This can be a great advantage for the countries. This is now seen by the way in which countries can obtain cheap loans through the Netherlands. Then you see here again an added value of a kingdom, because the Netherlands is a partner who offers a kind of portal for this fund to do business in the countries. That will also depend on whether there is stable governance in the countries, whether it is interesting to invest there at all, what the prospects are and whether one is willing to go through transitions around sustainability. I can't say anything about that right now. But I can say that we are talking about this with this fund. I can imagine that Mr Beuker would want to know how these talks are going and that he would like to be informed about them. If that's the case, I'd be happy to. This brings me to the end of my answer to the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u217	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u218	Thank you, Mr President. A good debate also applies: it takes two to tango. I would like to compliment the Secretary of State on this, in fact, indirectly, but also explicitly. I think that the answer was clear, pleasant and clear and gave rise to a number of clarifying questions and interruptions and also commitments on his part. At least that is appreciated by our group. I have two kinds of comments: first reflection, part of which, of course, was also about looking back at the term of office of the Secretary of State, and later a second comment about looking forward. We will all be doing this very briefly. In a reflective sense, the Secretary of State told you to do it together. That's what we're getting from the heart. You do have to do it together. I believe that this has been achieved very often and that it has not always been possible to do so clearly or to make it quite clear; let me put it diplomatically in the evening. This was, among other things, about the Secretary of State's statements on autonomy. He explained those statements and I understand them better now. It was also about what he said about sending those food packages and so on. You don't want it to be necessary, but yes... Then you come in the atmosphere of "watch out," because words weigh naturally. You've been doing this for three and a half years, but with a lot of passion, I see. Anyway, how you make your statements, especially as a ruler of the Netherlands, all listen extremely closely. The same applies to the negotiations on those country packages. Those country packages are really good. We are going to talk about this within the framework of COHO, but there is also something that may need to be improved. That's all looking back. I have noted everything we have recently exchanged on the issue of refugees, the Convention and the ECHR. So that's fine. There is actually one more element in the reflection in this area. Maybe you should almost discuss that in an informal atmosphere; I don't know that very well. That's about the three elections we just had. With the best intentions of the Secretary of State, again, there is no doubt about this, and of course, with no discussion about democratic law and so on, there is ultimately a government in Saint Martin with which you are having trouble, difficult, difficult. We talked about Statia and we actually talked about Curaçao. If you want to unite all the constructive forces in the Kingdom to eventually achieve what the people of those countries need, it requires better thinking about how to do it. I'm saying this because we let this go once. The Secretary of State knows about me. In the nineties we let Miguel Pourier, the then Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles, burst.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u219	Mr Rosenmöller here reflects on democracy in the countries of the Kingdom and, in fact, on the choices made there. I would like to avoid that at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u220	I think you do that in the living room, and that's why I'm doing it here. I am not questioning the outcome of these elections at all, but I am placing them in contact with the countries of the Kingdom. I talked to the Secretary of State about that on the matter of Statia. I've tried to describe the delicateness of this process. I very much respect the people's statement; you will expect me to do the same, and you must expect me to do the same. Nevertheless, I also believe that we should be able to identify these kind of dilemmas or issues, which I find complicated and which I do not know, in a certain way in all transparency and openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u221	As a parliamentarians and as a senator, you have a certain responsibility. In that responsibility you may be able to talk in the living room, but not in the Senate about the way in which the countries were elected. To denounce that... Well, "to denounce" is perhaps too much to say. I do not think that we should respond or reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u222	But there is a great misunderstanding between Mrs Oomen and me, because I am not questioning that democracy at all. In such a large mother country, the relationship with much smaller countries affects how people think, do, act and also vote. If we are arguing with Italy or with Spain, it will not affect the elections in Italy or Spain. But here we are talking about countries of 120,000, 160,000 and 30,000 people; by the way, we are talking about countries of one Kingdom. This means that the nature of the contact is different and has a greater influence on thinking, doing, acting and perhaps also voting people. They must be free in what they vote. It's not voting advice. Nor is it a plea to all of us to stand behind one party. It's up to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u223	Mrs. Oomen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u224	One comment. It is an assessment of the way in which the votes were taken in the countries. I would not presume that judgment. Maybe in the living room or if we take the train home together, but if we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u225	Finally, Mr President. I try to do everything in my power to call into question, even if it is transparent but with caution, under the recognition of all the democratic rules that exist, something that colleagues do, which ultimately affects the people of the countries of our Kingdom. That is all I am saying, unless Mr Schalk still has a very spicy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u226	On this point, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u227	Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mr Rosenmöller a very spicy question. I taste the caution and care in his words, but in his first term he indicated that he found it amazing that the same people were chosen on that board as before. Then it smells like you're actually saying to the Secretary of State: shouldn't you have done something to get these people to have a job elsewhere or something? In other words, you're actually talking about those people, those people. That may not be your intention, but if I had been elected there and listened to this debate, I would think: yes, but they should not interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u228	The joke is, I know these people. If I met Clyde van Putten, one of those people, here on the street tomorrow, I'd sit on a terrace if the terraces were open, and then we'd talk for hours, because there's a band. I know these people. I know who they are. I know how they think. They know how I think. That may partly mean a clash, but I dare to talk about those people, also because I say it to those people, because I know those people, because there's been a relationship with those people in Statia. That is why I dare to question it here, precisely in the way you say I do it, with the necessary care. Finally. I went much further on something that took place 25 years ago, namely: The Netherlands let the Prime Minister of the Netherlands from then on burst the Netherlands Antilles. That's a very heavy qualification. I also said it when I was allowed to speak at 65 years of Statute................................................................................................................................................................................................... There was universal recognition that 25 years later that is the analysis. Yeah, that's an experience I take with me after all these years. Maybe that colors my input in this area. I think that we should try to avoid this in a situation in which we are once again in a position where, underneath it, democracy in the four countries of our Kingdom continues to be clearly recognised and people are released in which party they vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u229	Of course, I have a huge backlog, because I do not know these people personally, but I understand very well that you would speak with them on a terrace there. But here we are in the Senate and we actually have a question to the Secretary of State, at least Mr Rosenmöller has a question to the Secretary of State who seems to me to be: how can you prevent these people from being elected? I find that complicated. Perhaps Mr Rosenmöller can reflect on that, just to use that beautiful word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u230	To be honest, I am used to what I think I should be able to discuss here in the Senate for the sake of decency. Perhaps it should be said otherwise, because it will be a little more careless outside than here; thank you for the care you have given me in this debate. I've also seen and qualified it as something I'm not out of. I don't know exactly how to handle that. I know it would please you too, perhaps I may say so if it is perhaps a bit of a dilemma for all of us to deal with. Of course, you want to do justice to all those democratic processes in the countries, but at the same time you all have some sort of second thoughts with such a result. Then you think: yes, that will be difficult for the Netherlands. And it's not just going to be difficult for the Netherlands, because our hearts ultimately go out to those populations. Of course I have... no, let me not say that. I know more people about whom I would like to say something in relation to a party's victory in one of the countries, which I think it might not be wise to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u231	While you could say anything, you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u232	But you don't have to say everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u233	You don't have to say everything. I'm gonna take one more shot. Imagine if the Secretary of State would say, on the basis of what Mr Rosenmöller said, that I should have taken that and that action so that some other people would have been elected. I can imagine that we would all say that he should not interfere with that. If you mean that there must be an atmosphere in a country and among the population that will lead people to a different process than a few years ago, then we agree. A few years ago it was ruined, if I may say so loudly. That's what I think we're looking for together. Maybe we'll be closer to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u234	I think we're very close. I think we agree on all the formal aspects. I think the Secretary of State has less room than a parliamentarians because he operates from government to government. We must also be able to discuss this with parliamentarians. I believe that all the criticisms we have of parliamentarians, of our colleagues, of what they say or do or perhaps fail to do should be open to discussion. My lesson in Kingdom relations, among other things, but also in other areas, is that as you discuss difficult issues transparently, there is appreciation for the fact that you do so and you can say more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u235	I understand Mr Rosenmöller in such a way that he says that he has confidence in the people who are going to vote, but that he calls for particular attention to the people who have been elected, because we have had experience of this. Is he actually saying that there could be some sort of enhanced supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u236	No, I wasn't gonna say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u237	On what grounds aren't you going to say that? A few years ago, that was the reason to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u238	No, that was no reason to intervene. The main reason for administrative intervention was anyway Statia, leaving aside the small things on Curaçao from the last period. Statia had a real impact. That was the main issue. It had unanimous support, across the street and here. So we've all supported that. That was right before I and others of the 2019 series recommended here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u239	Oh, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u240	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u241	But there are the same people who have been elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u242	I've said all about it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm making a point here. The reason for this was that I went further and then, of course, I concluded, Mr President-in-Office, that the Secretary of State also used the words 'together' and 'constructive forces'. How you end up using it for an improved relationship is a field of tension and a challenge for all of us, I think. Then we look forward. It is very good that the Secretary of State, with all the efforts and the pride he himself expresses, for example in the field of poverty, on which steps have been taken, does not hesitate to say that we still have a lot to do. It is nice that he says that there are also people in the cabinet who support him, such as Mrs Van Ark and others. But he also said that the full involvement might be even stronger. I've written down things like "a slap over it" and "a tooth." That's extremely nice. That brings us to the next motion, which does not say anything about policy. I have spoken complimentously several times about the Secretary of State, but this is about the coming period. The: Mr Rosenmöller proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas there is scope for improvement of relations within the Kingdom; noting that in November 2019 the National Ombudsman stated in his report "Access for the elderly in the Caribbean Netherlands': "Caribbean Netherlands can and may not remain the ver-van-mijn-bed-show for The Hague'; Considering that, in a planned reading in November 2019, the Vice-President of the Council of State argues, through a multitude of avenues, for "concrete and sustainable improvement of the Kingdom's ties"; Considering that in its opinion of September 2020 on the security and legal order in the Caribbean, the International Affairs Advisory Council stated that Kingdom relations should be given a higher priority in cabinet policy; Considers that, both in the broad field of security and in the socio-economic and financial fields, the population of the Caribbean region of the Kingdom will benefit from the strengthening of mutual relations; points out that the new cabinet should give a higher priority to the Kingdom's relations by stepping up the Dutch commitment in the above areas in order to improve relations in a concrete and sustainable way, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter L ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u243	In the second observation of the motion, I said 'proposed' because that reading was not pronounced because of a power failure. The Secretary of State knows that. Mr. Chairman. One final comment. Of course, we see the Secretary of State very quickly and very gladly when it comes to the dispute settlement. I do not know if you can say anything about this, but we hope that we will also be able to deal with the National Law on COHO with this Secretary of State. We would look forward to it, because this debate strengthens us and actually calls for more. I liked it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u244	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, I have heard fine words from the Secretary of State. I mention the commitment to raising the minimum wage, better sharing of housing and better sharing of wealth. It's good to hear we're in the same place here. It is also difficult that we are having this conversation with a outgoing Secretary of State, because I would have liked to ask the question: how now? Steps have been taken in your cabinet period, but to speak with the words of the Secretary of State: it is going through now. How could we guarantee that? A cool head and a warm heart, that is indeed something I see again and that does me good. I hope your successor will do this with the same commitment. I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State has asked Aruba itself to come forward with proposals for cuts in health care, but my question was whether the Secretary of State considers that the burden is proportionate and whether the public sector is kept alive by these reforms. I'd like another comment on that. "Together" remains the key word. Although I see that the Secretary of State also has this as a starting point, we do see that relations are sometimes on edge. Of course, that is also part of the game, but a complaint to the UN is not very good. Angry and then wanting to shut down the money, that might not be the most relationship-promoting decision, I'd say. I also miss the answer in how the Secretary of State looks at the idea of working with the residents on the division of tasks and roles in the Kingdom. I referred to the motions tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Van Raak. Maybe I missed it, but I don't think I've had a reaction to that. I am well aware that the Secretary of State is outgoing, but he can, of course, give a directive in a transfer file, if there is, because of course we do not know what the future looks like. I have therefore also supported Mr Rosenmöller's motion. I also welcome the efforts made with regard to the refugees from Venezuela and also with regard to their sustainability. I forgot to mention it in my term, but fortunately Mr Dittrich mentioned it. Mr. Chairman. I have many international contacts and I always start with the phrase: "excuse me, I'm Dutch, so I'm very direct." This not only creates a relaxed moment, but it also creates understanding for the conversation that follows. At the same time, this warning does not relieve me of the obligation to keep an eye on the subsequent process. The Secretary of State did not hesitate to act directly and firmly when necessary, and it was also necessary and good. And indeed, that has also aroused appreciation. But at the point where there has always been an eye for the environment, I think there is still a profit to be made. That is why I welcome the commitment to look at what is behind the results of the elections in the municipalities and countries, and in particular whether the cooperation with people involved, the residents, is sufficient. It is a pity that we could not have had this debate a year ago, because we could have given more direction to the current situation. On the other hand, I see a lot of unanimity in this Chamber. I have good hope that we will continue to follow this process closely together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u246	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Beuker on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Secretary of State. Clear answers, a lot of passion. Indeed: the cool head and the warm heart. That appealed, very well. It is also good to hear that we are so real that we recognise Caribbean solutions to Caribbean problems. That's important. Each one his own. Each his own God. We also understand from my group that there is occasional discontent. We have seen this ourselves; I experienced this myself in Saint Martin, especially at the start of reconstruction and recovery after Irma. This was very slow and sometimes very slow, with many unnecessary bureaucratic requirements, especially from the World Bank. Glad to hear that the Secretary of State sent and sent additional experts to get the projects and programmes started and to get the airport fully operational again. That's good. I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. What about the integrity room? We have not discussed this at all today, but that is a very important instrument. I would like to hear an answer to that in the second term. Glad that the model of the five D's: dreaming, thinking, daring, doing and persevering. It is also pleased that there are no restrictions and that funds are now also being used to look at the islands. And welcome the commitment that we will be informed of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u248	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u249	Thank you to the Secretary of State for this debate. On behalf of my group, I have zoomed in on two points, which are underlying many actual problems on the islands and the countries: structure and cooperation. Both points cannot be resolved today or tomorrow, but they are fundamental to making bigger steps than we are doing now. Therefore, I have not received any promises on either of them that will make it better tomorrow, but at least I have been given an understanding that steps will be taken. That applies to the structure. The Secretary of State has explained what he is doing about the Van Raak motion, also to Mr Gerkens. That step has been taken. Well, okay. We are not done with this in the years to come, but the first step will then be taken. The second applies to the relationship. I have drawn particular attention to this ugly past called 'colonialism'; and colonialism, that is exploitation and racism. And that is a debate that needs to be conducted not only individually, but also structurally. So I'll come back to that a few times, because I really think that within our Kingdom as it is now, too little has been said in a way that... Well, we're talking here, we've talked about it, we're here in the Senate, we're not here in a cafe or at home or I know what, but it's an official house. The same applies to relations between the countries: that must also be the case there. But the first step... Wait and see what that report does. I will hear later when that report will come and how the Kingdom is involved in it. And I understand that it is only about racism; colonialism is, of course, a little more than that. Anyway, that first step has been taken and that is also what we are going to continue and push forward over the next few years. So thank you for that, too. I welcome this debate, and indeed I agree with the previous speakers, Mr President, with the open way in which we can discuss it with the Secretary of State. I would like to say to my colleagues: let us not be too anxious about what we are discussing. Of course, we must not call for a coup d'état in the countries; democracy must, of course, go ahead there. But when democracy is put aside for a while and you see exactly the same people coming back, it seems to me to be a perfectly legitimate question to say: how are we going to avoid repeating what happened back then? And that may be because the people who come back think differently about it, but it may also be that the procedure has not been good and that something else has to be done. Those seem to me to be questions that really need to be addressed here in this house and addressed in a prudent manner. The same goes for Curaçao, by the way. That brings me to the end of my second term, and I thank the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u250	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin my second term with a compliment to the Secretary of State. He told me that three and a half years ago, when he started, the islands were a kind of terra incognita. And three and a half years later he shows himself very involved and in some parts he has actually spoken with authority here about the Kingdom relations. So that's good. And whatever this former military has learned is string dancing in those three and a half years. And that really is a gift. For it is about autonomy, but also about how far we can shape our activities in such a way that it does not appear to be an infringement of autonomy, while we are helping the people there. That's pretty hard, that tension field, that string dancing. And I think the Secretary of State has been aware of that on a regular basis. Sometimes it is difficult, of course, and when you fall off the rope, you also fall hard and there is also a lot of commotion. Of course, we've seen that before. Mr Rosenmöller has tabled a motion to the effect that this matter should be dealt with seriously in the cabinet formation. I agree. And let me say here the hope and perhaps also the expectation that you never know how cabinet formations are going to be, but let me say that GroenLinks is involved in this, Mr Rosenmöller is going to use his influence, so that this will also become part of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. In my term, I also talked about a multiannual perspective, which I have associated with the National Council of Ministers. I also asked the Secretary of State how he saw it. Does he agree that the three countries in the Kingdom will be given this multiannual perspective? I have seen in the documents that there is going to be a conference. I thought it was summer 2021. Maybe it's being delayed because of corona. But that seems to me to be an important time to discuss poverty, public health and the rule of law, all these elements, together with the countries. Perhaps the element of slavery and colonialism, which Mr Recourt has so impetuously put forward, can also emerge there, of course with cultural sensitivity. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying one thing that I have not been able to discuss. We celebrated the opening-up of marriage here in the Netherlands on 1 April. That's where all kinds of people were interviewed, including from the islands. They said to us: "It is a real shame that we, couples of the same sex, cannot marry on Curaçao or Aruba. We must then go to Bonaire, when we want to have equal rights and we must also be entitled to them according to the ruling of the Supreme Court." So my question to the Secretary of State is: what influence can the Netherlands exert, so that equal rights will be truly equal rights throughout the Kingdom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u252	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u253	Mr. Chairman. I particularly appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State first started his reply with the connection with the Caribbean, in particular the connection with people. He immediately raised the vulnerability of the current situation. That's done me a hell of a job. I think it's good for the relations in the Caribbean, too. Mr. Chairman. Like Mrs Gerkens, I have noted the following: the social minimum for the BES, the benchmark, housing, electricity, the Internet and the adjustments that need to be made there. What has already been achieved is not enough. We have to keep doing that. That's one. I have also heard him say that the free allowance, which makes it possible in these municipalities to make better choices, must also be increased. I have also noted concerns about new opportunities to strengthen earning capacity. I have made comments on agriculture and sustainability in agriculture, and on labour market reform. That's all in the package, but I think it's gonna have to be fixed. AJV didn't make eight recommendations, it made ten. I have noted that there will be a return to that. Mr. Chairman. We, as parliamentarians, have also heard the criticism about the speed of the recovery operation and the action that has responded to the hurricane. I am pleased that the Secretary of State said in all honesty: "We should perhaps have completed the expertise earlier, including with us. We were probably a little positive. It's not that we don't want the World Bank anymore, but at least we know that, when something happens again, we'll get some more expertise." Mr. Chairman. All my colleagues have congratulated the Secretary of State for the honest answers he has given and for the energy and commitment he has shown for the Caribbean, in that part of our Kingdom with which we are so connected. Thank you very much, on behalf of the CDA Group too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. I call Mr Van der Burg of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u255	Mr. Chairman. I will not start with a compliment to the Secretary of State, but with a compliment to Mr Rosenmöller, because we are having this debate, because he has almost continued to engage in this debate against the main current in the country. It has been extremely good that he has done so and that this has led us to have this debate, not only because it makes me feel greatly enriched, but also because it has sent a signal to the three countries and the three BES municipalities, in this case or the six islands, that it is important that we are talking to each other. One of the arguments I had to say to Mr Rosenmöller "do you have to do this?" was: we'll talk to a outgoing secretary of state. But, yes, the mistake I made was that we didn't talk to "a" missionary secretary of state, but to this outgoing secretary of state. He has enriched us in an exceptionally pleasant, deep, committed way with his knowledge and skill. That too is worth a compliment. What I found most interesting in the debate were the moments, both in the first and in the second term, when Mr Rosenmöller was standing here and the people at the interrupting microphone were standing there. Because then our dilemma came up very well. Nothing negative about the inhabitants of Italy, Greece or Spain, but we feel a different commitment to the inhabitants of our three sister countries. That brings to light the dilemma that was raised in the debate between the people at the interrupting microphone and Mr Rosenmöller. Because we want so much: we want things so much different, better, more beautiful. Actually, we're just trying to get involved. But we are limited by the autonomy of the three countries, more precisely because of the autonomy of the four countries. For what we may with them, they may with us. We're not here yet. In many debates, we are still going to talk about the content, whether it is the fight against poverty, the support of refugees or all the other things. At least this debate has laid a good foundation and shown unity. For there were several contributions, but there was clearly spoken in unity. In my view, this has provided a good basis for the content debates. I would like to expand that, as soon as the weather is possible, with our colleagues on the other side of the water, so that we can have the conversation with them, preferably physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u256	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. I call Mr Schalk of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, thanks to the Secretary of State for replying and the way in which that happened. I think I told you twice today that I've never been to the Caribbean. I understand it's warmer there than in this room. There was a fresh breeze through this room today. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has made it clear that the countries in the Caribbean must be able to bear autonomy. I spoke to him for a moment about whether they want to and whether they dare to. He found that the political will is there. I have not yet heard whether he has also met the political mood that is sometimes needed there, even in order to choose your own autonomy. In all honesty, as far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State does not have to try, for example, to change the marriage in the countries there, as Mr Dittrich has just indicated. I don't need that much. The Secretary of State has answered the questions surrounding the idea that small scale support is needed and he has indicated that there will be an implementation agenda per island. Can I ask him if we are also informed of this in this Chamber? I think that can help us to get even more insights, especially since we have not been there about the current state of affairs and the differences between the implementation agendas per island, so that we might be able to interpret that better. I have another question about financial support. In my view, the Secretary of State has distinguished between unconditional aid and conditional aid. He mentioned the amounts just before the break. I do not have it entirely sharp, but I understand that conditional aid was 750 million and unconditional aid was 71 million. That would be about a tenth. That's a very biblical thought, that of course you're giving something away. Then the left hand shouldn't know what the right hand is doing. But now that it's out in the open, the question is: is that about right, and is it on that biblical line? Mr. Chairman. I have one last question about the churches. The Secretary of State has equestrianly indicated that he was surprised by the relationship offered by the church-related organizations within the society there. Extremely positive. What does that mean in the future for the way in which the Secretary of State or his successor is properly in touch with it and uses it? Mr. Chairman. That was my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear statement. I've come to know him as a very passionate man. I am also struck by honesty, because I understand that the Secretary of State admits that when they were asked to sign the cross or not, the countries did not really have a choice. The heart in the right place is also important. I understand we all have a bit of a heart in the right place. My heart started beating when I read in the paper how the islands reacted to what happened in the summer. The same applies to Mr Recourt. But we all have a good heart for the people of those islands. And such a good heart that Mr Van der Burg even says: we want to get involved so badly, because it must go well for those people. And then you come to the question: we want to get involved, but how does that relate to the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands? Article 41 says: The Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten independently represent their own affairs. That is a basic principle, which we cannot ignore unless we amend the Statute. Mr Recourt has already said that the Statute may not be entirely modern. In the letter from the Secretary of State to the National Council of Ministers, I read about the procedures involved. For example, I read: "Working markets need to be reformed in order to provide opportunities for the large and growing group of outsiders in the labour market." That is what we think, and the Secretary of State thinks, and that is what the government thinks, but let's say that a parliament on one of those islands doesn't think so. Then who's in charge? According to the Statute, the people's representatives on the islands will be the boss, but as we see here, it is actually a dictation of the Netherlands. I also read: 'Tax reforms and measures are aimed at redesigning a robust tax system'. But what is a robust tax system? Who cares what a robust tax system is? Is a robust tax system including dividend tax? Or doesn't there belong to a dividend tax? I'm just saying. You can think very differently about that, if your memory is good. The text goes on to: this amounts to a fair distribution of income. If the people's representatives on the islands now say 'well, with the tax system as it is now, we think there is a fair distribution of income', do we, the Netherlands, have to join us or should we say: no, we do not think it is fair enough yet? It says that it contributes to a fair distribution of income. We are therefore interfering with the question of what we believe to be the right and fair distribution of income for these islands. Is that compatible with Article 41, with that autonomy? That's a political question. I would like to put it to the Secretary of State again in all intensity and intensity, because it has caused a great deal of pain, because it has been experienced as an infringement of that autonomy and thus as a dictatorship. That is the political question. Then I also have a legal question. I had asked the Secretary of State to reflect on the opinion of the Council of State on the COHO draft. You said you'd be here in a few minutes. But I would also like to ask whether the Secretary of State would like to reflect on the question of the legal limits of interference within the statutory principles. The Council of State says: "The starting point of autonomy of the countries and, in particular, the restraint which the kingdom government, and the Netherlands as the largest country, must exercise in limiting the country's own responsibility, is an important factor." In the footnote, the Council of State does not refer without reason to a ruling it made on a request from Curaçao, which had received a designation regarding the adjustment of the 2019 budget. That action was justified because the Council of State considered that there had been insufficient restraint. That is the legal question I would like to put to the Secretary of State: what does the government think of the degree of restraint which should actually be respected? And then we're back to that question of autonomy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u260	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said that he has learned a lot over the past three and a half years about this beautiful area, the parts of the Netherlands, at least from the Kingdom. I must say that I have learned a great deal in the past week. It was a pretty thick file with a lot of pieces. That means that at least I have learned a lot, including via internet media. Because if you are looking on Wikipedia for example, you can see quite a bit of history. I'd advise everyone to take a look at that. There is also what we should think about by island, also in the context of what I started earlier: guilt, slavery history and that sort of thing. In that sense, it is quite good to think about that. Mr. Chairman. I think I have made it clear in my speech that I was somewhat concerned, including the many questions and the many problems that lie ahead. I have made the suggestion that parliaments could play a heavier role in this, partly because the government is currently decommissioned. I must say that at least the Secretary of State is not acting as a Demissionary Secretary of State. He's going for it. That's very explicit. Again, countries have many questions and long for answers. The question is whether the government has sufficient power to actually solve these problems this year. If Parliament were to play a role, where could it help you? That's actually the final question. However, I would like to draw attention to the story of the residents, which I started with just now. There were still doubts about the process that has taken place over the past two years, particularly with regard to the participation of the population and the increased involvement of the people of Saint Eustatius. Apparently, that didn't happen. The Secretary of State said he's reporting on it. I am very curious about this, because this was a reasonable and reliable participation, and at least there is no case for it to have gone really well. We like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u262	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yes, that's the case. That's fine. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the extremely interesting debate. What I'm experiencing here is what you've attributed to me, but I always experience that when I'm in the First Chamber. In fact, you have said all this in different terms. It's about doing things together. It's about relationships. It is about constructive cooperation and always keeping the goal in mind. That is that military background of mine, that I always try to see that goal, although I have never learned to dance cords at the academy, where Mr Beuker has also been. I never learned that there, and I don't think I'm gonna learn that either. It is important, however, that in everything that is happening, I believe that Mr Schalk also referred to it when he asked if there was political courage. That is the case here in the Netherlands, and so is in other countries. Just at times when it's hard, if you think you're doing the right thing and you can convince others to do the right thing, you have to go through with it. I believe that's what Mrs Gerkens said. That was a nice slogan, by the way, now wrap it up. It is, because we have so little time. There are members of your Chamber who are much longer involved in the file, but I can tell you, looking back, that the past three and a half years have flown by, and that at the same time a great deal has happened. I'm not making up my will yet, but I was a little excited by your input on this, too. I stepped in neutrally three and a half years ago. What were you thinking in the front and what have you achieved now? We can say that much has been achieved in the meantime, but there have also been many problems. It's not like it's calmed down. There were natural disasters, there was covid. That just has a disproportionate impact on the islands. So against that background, the words "political courage" are easily said. In recent years, I have met people on the islands who, under much more difficult circumstances, have to do their job than we have. They have shown courage at crucial moments. I am not going to name these people here now, because then I might also forget some of them. But they are people whose names are now shooting through my head and where I think: they are just standing there, with the limited support they sometimes have. They are standing there to explain to their people, who may be dissatisfied, why it is a good thing to reform. For I would like to emphasise that reform was not just the wish of the Dutch Government, but that it was also the wish of the Heads of Government I spoke to. People see that you can't keep going on. I say to Mr Rosenmöller that I am also pleased that some of my statements seem to be too direct at least in their context. I am referring to the ruling on whether or not to bear autonomy, but also to the statement that it is a disgrace that you should distribute food packages in a kingdom that is potentially very rich and where that should not be necessary. And I'll come back to the comparison with Pourier. We've talked about that outside this house. You did not say it, but I feel it is a bit like we would have done the same with the Rhuggenaath government. You say no, and it is indeed a different situation, because Prime Minister Rhuggenaath, who is about to resign as Prime Minister, has done an incredible job of doing the right things; let me say that here too. We've had very good contacts with him and made very good appointments. He did so from the same conviction as mine, many others, and also from you. But I can't deny that in that matter, the picture was that the Netherlands was failing at the crucial moment. I cannot deny that this still plays a mental role in the relationships that exist. That is something to be taken into account, also in the context of Mr Recourt's remark. Will the Netherlands comply with its agreements or not? Thinking about that question has been with me many times over the past three and a half years. "You say this, but are you going to?" I thought, "Of course we're gonna do that, or I won't say it." That's just the assumption behind it. Mrs. Gerkens was wondering... I have to get my papers in order; of course I don't have my administration back in order. Well, I wanted to answer her question about the public sector and the De Graaf/Van Raak motion. I'll get back to you on that. I liked Mrs. Gerkens' explanation of "excuse me, I am Dutch." I've done that before, and that works, by the way. Because Mr Rosenmöller thinks that he should be able to discuss things here, and I say that in a good relationship you can discuss a lot. So that relationship is crucial to finally being able to say that you disagree. I've been through such moments over the past few years. In addition, you gave each other a hand before covid, and you said: okay, we may not agree, but we do respect each other's opinions. I have already indicated that I want to look closely at what has been said about Saint Eustatius. I just need to correct something. I said there were townhall meetings. I was sure they would have been. They have been there, but in times of covid it was of course more difficult. There have been Facebook sessions, but I think that could be a bit more intense, especially with the experience we have now. I promised earlier that I'd come back to that. I fully agree with Mr Beuker's comment on a Caribbean solution to Caribbean problems. It does not always have to be a Dutch solution, but the problems are there and must be resolved. In that context, I can report to you... that question of yours was included, too, about the integrity room. You were wondering what happened to the integrity room on Saint Martin. The integrity chamber has started its work and has now issued several opinions, one at the request of the government of Saint Martin. That was about giving policy or, rather, accepting gifts. As a result of covid, they have not yet been able to launch the campaign widely to publicise their task, including among the population, but this will be taken up as soon as possible. As far as your five-d's are concerned, I have already said that I fully agree with them. You were glad that there were no restrictions, but I have to say that if you do on this dossier, you will not get that far. You have to think about opportunities. There are, remarkably, a lot of them. If everyone wants to think out of the box, they can do it. Over the past three and a half years, I have experienced a lot of things that have never happened before, of which we thought both on the other side of the ocean and on the Dutch side: how are we going to solve this? In the end, fortunately very often, almost always, you come to a solution. The big problem we have here is time. Time is our enemy in a sense. The moment you don't deal with the problems quickly and allow them to continue, they are rarely solved by themselves. In general, they only get worse. Mr Recourt has once again made a plea for reflection on the Statute for a European Parliament and Council. I have already said something about this in the first place and about the relationship and cooperation. In that context, he mentioned the dialogue history of slavery. He's in here somewhere, too. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I should've just asked for a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u264	You can still do that, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u265	Now everything's mixed up, but it's gonna be okay. It's getting less and less. This is a dialogue group that would produce a report in 2021. That was planned for 1 May 2021, but this is now expected for the summer recess. Conversation tables also take place in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. The dialogue group will make its own choices about the exact content of these discussion tables. So before the summer recess you will be notified. Mr Dittrich spoke of terra incognita. That's it. It was absolutely an unexplored terrain for me, where I have experienced, as many have experienced, that once you come into contact with it, it will not let go. That says something about the nature of things. I saw Mr Van der Burg almost looking forward to a new portfolio. I think he found this debate interesting and it is only the question whether Mrs Jorritsma can still keep this portfolio after her absence, because exactly what happened to us all happened: once you get infected with it, it will not let you go. I shall return to Mr Dittrich's questions in a moment. They were in the pile, too. I'm gonna answer that in a minute. Thank you for the comments made by Mrs Oomen. The same applies to Mr Van der Burg. Mr Schalk spoke of this political courage. I'd already appointed that. He just wanted to make sure the sums he mentioned were right. Those are true, but are they based on the biblical line? That's a real coincidence or providence. At least I didn't do it with that intention. Moreover, these amounts are, of course, fluid in some sense, because both, both unconditional aid and conditional aid, are still increasing over time. These are the current amounts. As for those church organizations, I was surprised. Again, because I also know from my own environment how the micro works, but I just had no idea how it works in the Caribbean parts. I have come to the conclusion that the church plays an incredibly important role in the daily lives of many people. Again, with respect for the separation between church and state, I think the following. In the situation we are now in, the Church plays an incredibly important role in terms of social commitment and support for people, but also through their networks that can now be used to help people dependent on food aid. You will have to check for yourself whether I or a successor will use it. If it were me, I would say yes, but of course I cannot speak for a possible successor. Then Mr Nicolaï. We all have a good heart for the islands. I think that could be a very nice summary of this debate. I think that's true, too. You can differ about the direction and that is allowed, but a certain degree of passion is conditional. If your basic attitude is the same, which is that you think about everything you do about what it means to the ordinary people on the islands, then I think you already have a very large degree of overlap. Although there is a great tendency to go into all your questions about COHO in detail, I would like to continue the formal procedure and now, despite the temptation, I do not want to engage in that debate. Firstly, because, as has been said, I am still talking to the countries. So what the government's actual response to the Council of State's opinion will be is not clear at the moment. I can't say that alone, let alone the Dutch Government. This is a matter for the four countries, and that conversation is taking place at the moment. I can tell you that the question of autonomy has been addressed in detail by the Council of State and that it should also be given a good place in its work. The question is to what extent one enters into the autonomy of the countries and to what extent one must exercise the necessary restraint when meddling in domestic affairs. However, just that example of the robust tax system, just where the reasoning begins and ends with regard to the extent to which we prescribe what should be done. We're assuming that the current tax system, which is exactly how it works, is different. Then there are Mr Raven's questions. A lot of learning? Yeah, everybody's about to start. There's still a lot ahead of us. Go on with it. Maintain the eagerness and commitment to this subject. You ask where parliaments could help. Well, by that commitment and by talking about it. The worst thing that can happen is that the subject, like this, would not be discussed in parliament, because it is de facto dead. So it is obviously not important or everything is going well, but the latter is probably never the case, so then it is obviously not important. So from the fact that we talk about this regularly, I conclude that there is not only in word but also in action involvement of parliaments. As mentioned above, the IPKO plays an important role, but also the parliaments that debate it with their own governments. Then I come to the second-term questions and the remaining questions that had already been asked in the first term. Mrs Gerkens has asked whether the burden in public care is now evenly distributed. At the moment, they are not evenly distributed. That is also why it is now up to the countries, in the context of these reforms, to define how they can be distributed proportionally. This is not prescribed from the Netherlands, but it does ensure that the systems are in balance again. Mr Rosenmöller has asked whether this is something I can do, or whether it might be up to a successor, with regard to the planning of the National Law COHO. First of all, of course, it depends on how quickly there is a new cabinet in the Netherlands. Secondly, it depends on how quickly we can react with the countries. The ambition of the current planning, but I say this with all the reservations, is to submit the proposal to the parliaments before the summer, first of all the House of Representatives. The estimate is that this could only be discussed after the summer recess. Mrs Gerkens asked what was going on with the Van Raak motion on the division of responsibility. I think I've already answered that question in the first term. In the autumn of 2019 I had discussions with the prime ministers of the countries. The countries have responded positively to the request to discuss this, but it has not yet been possible because of Corona. Hopefully we can start a working group around the summer. Of course, this also depends on a number of things. So there are elections in Aruba again. There's always something like that. We, too, of course, have had elections. They were planned, but the ones in Aruba were not, at least: they were not planned for June but originally for September. I do not know to what extent that will have any effect, but this motion is being implemented. I'm telling you. Mr Dittrich asked what influence the Netherlands can have to ensure that equal rights, in this case that partners of equal sex can marry, are equal rights throughout the Kingdom. I am prepared to discuss this issue with the countries. If I had more information on that now, I would have said so. But I don't have any more information than this right now, so I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u266	Then we'll write that down as a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u267	I think that's a good idea. Mr Raven wondered whether there had been some sort of zero measurement at 10-10-10 when determining what a real amount would be for maintenance, for example, of infrastructure and delayed maintenance. On the basis of the division of tasks of the public body-reich, an assessment was made in 10-10-10 of the resources involved in these tasks. As far as I am aware, there has been no real zero measurement of late maintenance. Actual expenditure is now much higher than that initial estimate, for example in the field of education and care. The maintenance of roads is a task of the public body. The basis for this is public funding. However, we have added that 5 million to the Infrastructure Fund in a structural way, plus the fact that there were reserves in the public sector, at least on Bonaire. They are now being used to actually build these roads or to improve existing roads. Mr Dittrich asked about the position of the library as a centre for innovative development. I think there is no doubt that libraries are very important for this. In the Netherlands, too, we are now working on these Digital Government Information Points, where people in these libraries can have access to ask all kinds of questions they have. In fact, that's some kind of public-service window. On the basis of the report of the Committee on Childcare Allowance, it is, I think, a very important element: how can the citizen be connected and maintain sufficient contact with the government? Public libraries, such as those currently in existence, focus on the classic function of lending books. They are not yet sufficiently equipped to function as a learning and development centre. The libraries in the Caribbean Netherlands are lagging behind if you sell that against how libraries operate here. Your colleague in the House of Representatives, Mrs Diertens, has also drawn attention to this in the past. The public body doesn't have any money for it at the moment. The evaluation of the Library Act has shown the need to strengthen the library system in the European and Caribbean Netherlands. This is also given as a point of attention to a next cabinet via the OCW-line. 'Cause that's not BZK, it's OCW. Mr Dittrich's question as to whether the Kingdom Conference is already planned or whether I would be prepared to organise it. There is always readiness, although I think that at present the priorities of the countries are such that I am not going to fill it out for them in the short term. I think it is important, as I said earlier in reply to Mr Raven's question, that the contacts you have at parliamentary level remain open to the maximum. I do so myself with the contacts with the government and with the public bodies. Those lines are very short. Then you notice that, when you know the people, it all goes much faster and more natural. If it turns out that there is enough enthusiasm for this, I would be happy to respond. But of course you have to do that with four countries together. Mr Raven had another remark that he did not notice that I was expelled. I must honestly say that I do not feel at all expelled, but I am, of course, and must respect that. The way in which we are putting this into practice is no different for my fellow Members, except that we do not come up with new plans and matters that go beyond the horizon of this cabinet. The beauty of this portfolio is that many things have already been agreed in advance and that every day there are problems that need to be solved. Actually, I don't have much of that missionary status. Nor do I see what I would like to do now which I cannot do, also because there is a great deal of support in both Chambers for the initiatives we have taken to support the countries. It is precisely because of the crisis situation, I would almost say, that this does not depend on the status of a cabinet. That's lucky for the countries and for me. It's important that we can just keep going. Mr Rosenmöller's motion, I believe, is Rosenmöller and others, but I have not seen that, of course, Mr Rosenmöller's motion also calls for us to look over the horizon. I can't say anything about that for a moment, because this is really something for forming parties. Mr Nicolaï's first-term question on the implementation agenda in relation to autonomy. I didn't take this question entirely. The implementation agenda has been established with the agreement of the countries themselves and is often based on plans that countries themselves already had. The answer to the question of whether this affects autonomy is, as far as I am concerned, no, because these are agreements that have been agreed with the countries. For all the more fundamental questions relating to the Consensus Act, I would refer you to the forthcoming debate we are going to have on this issue. Mr Schalk asked whether the First Chamber could be informed about the implementation agendas. In the letter of 30 March last, I have already informed your Chamber of the main features of the implementation agendas. The Aruba implementation agenda is attached as an annex. In the next quarter, mid-July, I will send an extensive report to the Lower House and to the Upper House. Then I think I have answered all the questions. If not, I would recommend that we do so and then I will take care of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u268	I don't see any more interruptions. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-eerstekamer-7.u269	I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I thank all Members, I thank the Secretary of State and I thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
