ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin. We're going to have the debate about foreign espionage on mobile networks. I'll take a look at the contestants. I'd like to meet with you to allow three interruptions. I don't see any response, but we're just gonna do that. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2009, researchers at the request of KPN are looking at risks of unwanted interference in the telecom network. They're writing an alarming report. Huawei personnel can eavesdrop unauthorized, uncontrolled and unlimited mobile numbers from KPN users, from KPN buildings in the Netherlands, but also from China. And they can do more. Mr. Chairman. Safe and confidential communication is a foundation of our society. It's a fundamental right for a reason. You have to be able to trust that no one listens when you're making a phone call. That is essential for journalists, for researchers, for human rights defenders, for companies, and I can continue to do so, because it is essential for all of us. If companies and researchers are unable to speak freely about their innovations and new knowledge, if critical journalists and human rights activists cannot feel secure over the phone, then a basis for our society will disappear. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is aware of these risks and whether she is taking the appropriate measures to resolve the vulnerabilities quickly. Mr. Chairman. At my request, the Secretary of State sent us a letter in June outlining what has been done and still needs to be done to make our telecommunications network safer. But there seems to be a hole in this résumé of the Secretary of State. Since December 2019, the Secretary of State has already been empowered to give an indication of how to exclude untrusted companies from critical parts of the telecom network. However, the Secretary of State had not yet done so when the Volkskrant published its article in April. A few weeks later, we heard in the committee debate that the decisions containing those indications had just been sent. Therefore, I cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State did not take action until the Volkskrant published and asked questions about this at Question Time on 20 April, so my question is: why did the Secretary of State wait 15 months before she sent the decisions? Mr. Chairman. The most important question is, of course, when can society expect us to be able to communicate safely and confidentially again? I am disturbed that a lot of information has been declared confidential and that I sometimes find out more through the newspaper, for example about compensation, as in this morning's article of the FD. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: what deadline has it set for mobile network operators to clean up the network? How do we, as a Chamber and as a society, know whether this clean-up has been carried out on time and properly? Is compensation offered to mobile network operators? And can the Secretary of State disclose the distinction between critical and non-critical parts of the network and whether we are building sufficient security? Finally, Mr President. I would like to have an extensive exchange of views with the Secretary of State on what we can do as the Netherlands and Europe to reduce dependence on non-European tech suppliers, but I hope to do so at another time, because there is not enough time for that now. Perhaps one of my colleagues will be able to make a sneaky start with that tonight, so I will make the invitation. I look forward to the answer to my questions by the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u3	Thank you, Mrs Leijten of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u4	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, which concerns technology, backdoors, espionage, major interests, human rights interests, business and trade interests with China, I was wondering why, in the name of heaven, for our infrastructure, which is so essential for our daily lives, for our country's security and for the communication we have, we depend on private companies that can also be owned by states that we say are at great risk. That has grown historically, of course. The telephony market has become a market, but the technology has the demand "are we organizing that in the right way?" Actually, I caught up. The technology, whereby we trust things and share things that can be seen by others, with all the risks that come with them, is not at all so safe. My question is, can we fix it now? The Secretary of State can all identify things and extract certain organisations or companies from certain developments. Think, for example, of the roll-out of 5G. We have already said that we no longer want Huawei to play a role in this. But why don't we do it ourselves? Why can't we, as a country in the European Union, set it up ourselves? Are there any ideas about that? Are there any examples in the world where this is done, I ask the Secretary of State. The dependence of private parties on critical infrastructure is not always safe. We have also talked many times about state secret documents. Where are they kept? This happens with an organization that has now been taken over by a British e.g. We have asked questions about this. D66 has often asked questions about this. Then the answer is always: no, it is still safe, because it is still in the Netherlands. But are our state secret documents still ours in the end? We do not necessarily need an answer to that today, but it does show how we may have gotten into a situation where we really need to develop a vision. Perhaps that is in line with Mrs Van Ginneken's call from D66. Where do we think the boundaries of public and private guarantees lie? Where should we possibly catch up and do things ourselves? I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State. We see that the digital society is no longer going away. It's only gonna speed up. Until in the capillaries of care, education and our own contact: it is everywhere. In this way, the role of the government is, of course, also present. The government is partly responsible for protecting all of us. That may not have been really developed in all these developments. Where are you and what are you supposed to do? So I'm asking the Secretary of State if she's willing to make such a vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u5	Mrs Leijten refers to the introduction I gave. However, I think it is important to emphasise that this was not about whether we should be putting parts of the telecom infrastructure more into public hands, but about the idea of making ourselves more independent from technology suppliers from outside Europe. Well, at least I'd like to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u6	But then my answer would be: if you want to cut it that way, you might now be making a problem of Chinese state-owned companies, but it can of course also be an Israeli company associated with the Israeli security service, or an American company that we do not really want our data to be in the hands of. We have a big and broad debate about the influence of the big technological companies on our lives, on algorithms and on what they offer, but underneath is the question of the SP: what do we do for ourselves in public and what do we do for private? I see where we stand: everything is private, everywhere. There are a lot of subsidies going to make it safe, but if you have a secure contract partner and they are then taken over, you have no control over it. And then what happens? Then you will come to the question that D66 has also asked in the past. That was your predecessor, Mr Verhoeven, namely: what are we doing, for example, with Fox-IT? That has now been taken over by a foreign party. In addition, crucial information from our State may be in the hands of... it's about state secrets, so it has to be in a safe, that's a digital safe. But are you sure that's gonna be okay? So that's why I widened it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my colleague from D66 said, we're not standing here for nothing. We are talking here about the conclusions of the report for which this debate has been requested. I will quote one: "The findings of the internal report were so explosive that they feared the fate of KPN Mobile if they leaked." The report states: "The survival of KPN is seriously at risk because licences may be withdrawn or government and business will cancel their trust in KPN if it becomes known that the Chinese government can uncontrolledly tap mobile KPN numbers and shut down the network." Every time I read that sentence, it scares me. I believe that Mrs Leijten is right in saying that digital infrastructure is a utility and that digital connectivity is a human right. This calls for a very strong government that is willing to protect its citizens. It is also perfectly normal that we do not allow foreign powers to monitor our ways. 'Cause you see it already? The government of another country that knows exactly how many cars drive our roads, who's in that car and where they're going. It's kind of weird if we all knew that as a government ourselves. However, we give the governments of some countries access to our digital highways. We show them who approaches and what our companies do. It is therefore logical that the regulation improved a few years ago and that our mobile providers should be resilient to foreign espionage by 2022. Can the Minister tell us what's going on? Are these companies really resilient in practice? However, the PvdA wonders whether it is not much more logical to completely ban technology from companies from countries that we do not trust. To stay in the highway metaphor: even if we come up with rules, it is unacceptable to have the highways monitored by powers we do not trust. Even if there are rules to it, I don't want a foreign government to know where I'm going. In recent years, the government has better protected some exits, but Belgium goes one step further. Those companies of powers that we do not trust, for example, are not welcome in the port of Antwerp. In the United Kingdom, Sweden and Spain they go even further. There, companies of untrusted powers are completely excluded from the digital infrastructure. How does the Minister assess the steps taken by these countries? Does the Minister not think it would be better for certain companies to be completely banned for our safety purposes? And what would be the consequences of that? On this point, the Labour Party is also considering a motion. Of course it is not possible to do everything yourself as the Netherlands. It is very important that digital security is guaranteed throughout the EU. In Europe, we must be able to offer a good alternative to the market power of, for example, Chinese tech companies, so that we are no longer dependent on companies that we do not trust in places where security is crucial. Are you prepared to do so through you, President-in-Office of the Council, to advocate, in a European context, the possible exclusion of companies and countries that we do not trust in crucial areas in our digital infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u9	Then I'll go to the next speaker. That's Mrs Rajkowski from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you call, you don't want your call bugged. What you discuss with each other is private and should remain private. So if you're on the phone with your friend Jasmine, or with family, or if ministers are calling each other about important issues like national security, it's important that this stays private. In the Netherlands, we must be able to count on good telecommunications networks so that we are securely connected. All telecom providers in the Netherlands are working on this. In fact, our Dutch networks are among the best, safest and most innovative networks in the world. We should be proud of that. However, what we are discussing in the Netherlands can also be interesting for people from other countries. We have companies in the Netherlands that have such specialised knowledge that it is unique, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the world. Knowledge that is very interesting for others, for example China. Mr. Chairman. We must protect our Dutch telecom networks from evil external influences. We need to protect them from state-of-the-art threats. We are warned of this every day. Countries are interested in our knowledge. We do very cool things in the Netherlands with very smart people, who not only innovate the world but also give a boost to the e.g. the Netherlands, which we all benefit from. In addition, there are countries that want to harm our strong democracy. Some think that this is not so bad and that these are ghost stories, but unfortunately, the news about the 2010 report of Huawei and KPN and previously Telfort also makes the fear of listening to them well founded. So we should not be naive and think that no one is interested in our telecom networks. In recent years, the VVD has called for a number of measures in debates on 5G. A number of steps have been taken to make the network safer. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. The main question now is: are we in control and do everything we can to minimize the chance that others can listen in? I have a number of proposals for this. In 2019, the Economic Security Task Force carried out a risk analysis and looked at how vulnerable our telecommunications networks are to abuse technological suppliers. I want to understand the vulnerability of our networks after new measures have been implemented. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State for a new risk analysis when all the new measures have been implemented. The second is: what if we shut down the core of our networks for people who have evil intentions and perhaps for specific parties, but the rest of the network is in the hands of those same parties? Then maybe the critical component is secure, but we're still dependent. It's exactly that strategic dependency that we're being warned about. In other countries, the RAN part is seen as a critical network, not in the Netherlands. RAN is the link between the network and the phones, so antennas and base stations. So if all the big telecoms players play their RAN only with one foreign party, will we not become too dependent again? Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Perhaps this is a good point to take along too, should the task force resume its new risk analysis. Mr. Chairman. Then end-to-end encryption. This is an important development that keeps our communication ever safer. This is gonna change the eavesdropping, if not almost impossible. What does this mean for how people with evil intentions still want to enter and get new information? At what points will the network become interesting? Are we protected from that, too? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to our national security, it is our intelligence and security services such as the AIVD I know that it is covered by another minister who cooperates with our telecom providers. But what does this cooperation look like? If the AIVD finds that company X can't do anymore, everyone goes to company Y and later it turns out that company Y can't do anymore, then who's responsible? What is the difference between government and business together? Mr President, my final sentence. I have now made a number of proposals to see how we can make our network even safer, precisely so that we can remain strategically independent and protect our companies with unique products and high-tech knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u11	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u12	Thank you for the input of the VVD. A clear story in itself, but I lack a bit of an answer to the question of what is the responsibility of the private sector in this matter. I myself do not go so far as to think: you have to put all that infrastructure in public hands. We can't actually do that either, audience, I don't think, at the level you'd like. But you can see, and that is part of the VVD policy, that the enormous competition that we have fostered between telecom providers has led to marketing departments growing, but that we are cutting back on technical expertise and thus on the ability to properly assess what financers are providing, what are the gaps and how we can better protect ourselves. Does the VVD recognise this and what responsibility would it like to invest with the market players in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u13	When it comes to telecommunications networks, our market players are also responsible for enabling us all to communicate safely through their telecom networks. I think they do a lot of things about that, too. At the time when a telecom network... Maybe there's a tender and there's a party: hey, that's interesting. Perhaps a country is behind this, perhaps China is behind it, that thinks: if we come at a very low price, a low price, then we win the tender. The question that then arises is: if someone tries to enter at a low rate, do the telecom providers know what reasons are behind it? It's not always so... That's what I meant by company X and Y, not to mention names. Devices currently in certain systems may need to be replaced. But it's not like when they were ever bought, everyone thought: oh, but China is behind it or some other country, but you know, it's cheap; we're going to buy this one. Those telecommunications networks don't think that way. I don't really know where this question came from. I am convinced that our telecom providers will do everything in their power to provide as secure a network as possible. Because the moment it's not safe, they also have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u14	I'm surprised the VVD doesn't understand that. The VVD wants to promote competition. We're auctioning frequencies. We want to get money out of that, even as a government. But we also want them to compete well in the market. In the VVD's view, the Dutch want the best technology at the lowest price, but that also leads, of course, to a certain behaviour in the purchase of equipment by those telecom companies. If you want it to be safer, then the VVD should also be willing to accept that prices are likely to be slightly higher. If you want to guarantee that quality, that safety, then you need the technical know-how and also the capacity to properly assess it. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u15	Yes, thank you. I think we agree on that in the sense that the lowest price does not always mean that you are the safest. For example, look at Facebook. Everyone thinks, "Oh, that's free." That's not free; you only pay with something else. I think it is a good thing that we are bringing this naivety to the fore in the debate. For this kind of vital infrastructure, the lowest price is not always the best price for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u16	Then I'll go to the next speaker. That's Mrs. Van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our 11-year-old Jip came to sit with me last Wednesday. Tears in the eyes, because she was laughed at on TikTok. When certain movies opened, she heard a loud smile through the film, a bit The Jokerish. She was sad about the laugh, because she felt laughed at. I always feel a little sad about her tears, but I actually felt laughed at, but then for another reason. This was clearly an intruder capable of hacking through all the security systems and laughing at us with all our good security intentions. This was again a proof of how far one is in terms of intrusion and how relatively simple it is. Mr. Chairman. Spying, eavesdropping, infiltrating, sabotaging, it's of all times, but it constantly takes on other forms. It requires us to do everything possible to be one step ahead of our opponent. We used to be looking for the man in the raincoat who on a rainy evening left a secret message under a bench in the park, nowadays we are fighting against a much less visible enemy who tries to enter our mobile networks via digital backdoors. Less visible, but not less harmful to our society, citizens and businesses. The reason for this debate was the message that Chinese Huawei had unlimited access to KPN's network in 2010. A case from a number of years ago, but still very topical. The company is not excluded from the critical parts of the 5G network for nothing. During Question Time on 20 April last, the State Secretary indicated that Agency Telecom is investigating the KPN case. Is this already there, and if not, when is it coming? Central question during this debate: are our mobile networks, their critical parts, currently sufficiently protected from foreign, but also domestic espionage as far as the CDA is concerned? Given the confidentiality of much information, an answer will probably not be forthcoming, but I would like to point out a number of things which are very important to us. Because security for our mobile networks has been the focus of the CDA for a long time. The many motions tabled by my predecessor, Mrs van den Berg, on this dossier show this. A motion that is crucial in the light of this debate is the Van den Berg/Bruins motion from the legislative consultation on the Unwanted Control Telecommunications Act of 20 April 2020, which asks the government to consider where the sector is still vulnerable after the adoption of this law and whether additional measures are needed. How has this motion been followed up, I ask the Secretary of State. In protecting citizens and businesses and securing our mobile networks, government and telecom providers should be each other's allies and work well together. The latter need to invest heavily at the moment to secure a network, including by removing parts that were originally bought in good faith, but subsequently banned by the government. They could claim damage compensation. Is that right? We are also receiving signals that the threshold values in the disadvantage compensation framework are so high that telecom providers are de facto not eligible for disadvantage compensation. That's right, we're asking the Secretary of State. When it comes to securing our mobile networks, the focus is often on the telecom networks themselves, while the role of cybersecurity in the use of apps and mobile devices is much less focused. Actually wrong, because if the Chinese app TikTok can secretly and widely collect and trade information from children, then all alarm bells must really go off. The CDA finds this worrying and advocates further research into the vulnerabilities of app use, both among children and among adults, and where this can be improved. I'd like a response. The last point I want to make, and it has been said here before, is that about strategic autonomy, or rather the lack of it. Over the years, the Netherlands and Europe have made themselves too dependent on American and Chinese technology, allowing the company Huawei to get a job in our market. Indeed, the CDA advocates strategic regional industrial policy, including reshoring, which limits our dependence on third countries. What steps does the cabinet take in this area? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u18	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have already been asked. I agree with Mrs van Ginneken's term in this respect. I note, however, that the report we are talking about is already eleven years old. Those are almost dog years when it comes to telecoms and new technologies. Actually, that was almost 77 years ago. That's how fast these developments are going. I also have to say that in the years after that I have been to KPN. During that time they also had a top-notch cybersecurity team. That was one of the top three in the world when it came to tracking down possibilities of hacking. So there is a great responsibility for the companies themselves, much more needs to be done, but there is also a structural problem. And that structural approach that we have been promised does not come off the ground. That also indicates one of the providers. I'm asking the Secretary of State why. What I am also wondering is why we are giving little confidence to this information, where other countries are much more open about what is, for example, critical. They just give us definitions. What do you want from a company like Huawei not to deliver? When you talk about the other two suppliers, Ericsson and Nokia: they involve quite a lot of their essential parts from China. It's just too much dependence. That is why it is important that we work towards autonomy in this area, greater diversification. My group would like the Cabinet to also investigate the promotion of open RAN networks, which will allow the involvement of several producers in order to get 5G of this type of business off the ground in the future. It's a long way from that, but if you want to keep up with these developments, you need to be a little more proactive when government happens than it is now. I hope the Secretary of State will take steps in that direction. When it comes to these kinds of developments, I also think it is important that we learn more from the countries that are at the forefront here. This concerns the United Kingdom in particular. Is that where we're going? Do we ask them how they do this? Is that what we're learning from? Or are we all trying to reinvent the wheel again? The Cyber Security Council stresses that it is also important for us to think more proactively about how we can promote standards that we consider important, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the European Union, to become standards that are being followed globally. Here too, we must act more proactively. These include more focused research and development, more targeted public incentives and more targeted telecommunications industry policy. That is a plea that my group has made for a long time. We have for years warned of the role of Huawei. We also see that a previously adopted motion that we tabled with the VVD on the mapping of dependencies is being carried out quite badly. The commitment will then be to broaden the structural approach we are applying in the telecommunications sector. But there is still no structural approach in the telecommunications sector. I don't have much tangible evidence that we're going to step into this as a government. I would stress, however, that I think it is not just up to the government. It is also up to the market players, but they are facing increasing competition. They also make choices that do not necessarily promote our security. If you really want to do that, that means that there are consequences and that you have to accept them as a Dutch society. This means that you don't always get the best technology at the lowest price and that you sometimes have to pay for the security and privacy that we find so important with each other here in the Netherlands. I wish the Secretary of State every success in answering her question. I hope she can convince the Chamber that this structural approach is really taking shape, that it will also ensure that it is followed and that it is examined whether this follow-up is being implemented in practice. I hope that we will get reports on this and that we will be much more involved than we are now, and so will the public, because citizens also want to know about our telecoms and its security and whether our privacy is secured in terms of assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u20	Thank you, Mr Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is, of course, partly about how we can prevent espionage via foreign tech suppliers in the short term. At the same time, the Scientific Council for Government Policy indicates that full digital security does not exist and that we cannot 100% prevent it. I wonder how the Secretary of State sees that. Mr. Chairman. We can take steps to prevent espionage on our mobile networks as much as possible, but we also need a healthy dose of reality here. Because replacing foreign tech suppliers with European tech suppliers does not, by definition, make our mobile networks safe. Indeed, many European tech companies, including Ericsson and Nokia, also have parts of their equipment produced in China in collaboration with Chinese state-owned companies. If the Chinese government wants to build backdoors on our mobile networks, it could do so on this route. In order to increase European autonomy, we will therefore have to bring production all the way to Europe. I wonder if the Secretary of State intends to do so and, if not, what are the risks and how do we mitigate them? Who takes the lead in this? Mr. Chairman. It is also time to consider the crucial companies for the fourth industrial revolution primarily as European companies rather than as Finnish, German or Swedish companies. This also requires a certain commitment from the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State see the need for a European industrial policy? Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so at European level? At present, the US seems to see the strategic need of these companies more than the European Member States. The US even tried to acquire a majority stake in Ericsson last year, while we almost let it go bankrupt in 2017. Mr. Chairman. There is no overview yet of what the crucial European companies are for the fourth industrial revolution. In fact, we don't even have a map for the Netherlands yet. When the drama surrounding the hack at DigiNotar slowly unfolded in 2011, no one was sure how important that company in Beverwijk was for the Netherlands. My question to the Secretary of State is what it is doing to get an overview of the most crucial Dutch tech companies in the context of cybersecurity. The EU is currently carrying out an inventory at European level. I wonder what the Netherlands is contributing to this. It is, of course, important to get an overview as soon as possible, so that we know which companies we need to protect from non-European takeovers and competition. Finally, we need to see how we're going to use this technology smarter. What information do we share using networked technology and what information is certainly not? We need to ensure that every organisation consistently monitors digital vulnerabilities, performs patches and updates consistently, and makes regular backups. Staff need to be trained extensively in cyber security. This is labour intensive and requires enormous investment. The 95 million that the government has drawn out over the last ten years is a slap in the face of the 833 million that the Cyber Security Council considers to be minimally necessary. What are the steps the Secretary of State is taking in this? Following what Mr Van der Lee said about the United Kingdom, how does she intend to learn from Estonia? After all, they have become the frontrunner in the field of cyber security with a digital government in a short time. Is the Secretary of State ready to work for a European 6G strategy within the EU with a view to the future? Because it seems that we will not have the desired lead role in 5G, but we cannot afford to miss that boat as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u22	Thank you, then we have had all the speakers on the side of the Chamber and we will suspend until 7:40 p.m., after which the Secretary of State will reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u23	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the security and integrity of mobile telecom networks, and then in relation to the risks of espionage from state actors. We have, of course, had a debate here in the context of oral Question Time in which a large number of the questions that have been raised today were also discussed. At the same time, I have always said that there are certain things that I simply cannot share with you in public, because they affect national security. We have a solution for that in this house. Then we can hold a confidential briefing. On May 18th, there was such a briefing to discuss with you what the risks we are running, how that goes in practice and what critical parts are. So that was also the issue there. What I have heard from a large number of you is the concern about this type of activity and about what it means to our economy and our society. I think we all agree on that. You really have to do your utmost to decorate everything in such a way that you minimise the risks as much as possible. It is in the interests of our society and our economy that you can assume that the mobile telecommunications networks you use are as safe as possible. Mr Dassen was the last speaker and he referred to that. You'll never get it 100% safe. Guarantees cannot be given here either, but we will do everything in our power to ensure that it goes as safely as possible. This starts with the duty of care laid down in Chapter 11a of the Telecommunications Act. It provides that providers must take appropriate technical and organisational measures to manage their risks. This duty of care was incorporated into the law in 2012. This means that the suppliers themselves have a great responsibility of their own. Mr Van der Lee rightly referred to this. They are also responsible for their implementation. They have the best view of their systems and they know the risks they face on a daily basis. It follows from this obligation of care that providers should define their risks and appropriate measures in a plan. The Telecom Agency shall supervise those plans. It looks at what these plans look like and if research is needed, then it looks at how that works out. One example is the investigation currently being carried out by the Telecom Agency in connection with the article in de Volkskrant, which also prompted the debate during oral Question Time and which is referred to again today. That investigation hasn't been completed yet. So I have to inform the Chamber about this at a later date. I'm gonna do that, too. What have we done these past few years? What actions has the Cabinet already taken and what actions are still being taken to combat the risks of espionage from state actors in mobile networks? I sent a letter to the Chamber on 15 June at the request of Mrs Van Ginneken. I haven't been able to say everything in that. This has to do with the fact that matters cannot be shared publicly when it comes to company confidential information or national security. The measures outlined are also based on information provided by our services. On this basis, for example, it has also been decided which parts have been identified as criticisms. We in the Cabinet simply do not make any announcements about this in public. This can give an insight into the level of knowledge of the Dutch intelligence and security services, which we consider undesirable. In order to take you as well as possible into that consideration, I can imagine that you just want to know. So we have these confidential briefings. Our collective awareness of the potential vulnerability of mobile telecommunications networks to espionage risks from state actors through technology providers has increased significantly in recent years. In the letter of 1 July 2019 on measures to protect telecommunications networks and 5G, the AIVD and STIVD established that infiltration of service providers by state actors facilitates espionage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u25	Maybe I'm too impatient, but the Secretary of State tells us things that we've already heard through the documents. When I hear that story again about what needs to be confidential, I want to know why the British do it differently. They have clearly defined what is unreliable and what is critical. They have published a long list of abbreviations for specific parts of the network that specific providers are not allowed to provide. Do they take very big risks? Do they offer access that we cannot offer? What explains the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u26	That is a question you must ask the British Government. There are also countries that don't do it. And besides, with the fact that this has been published, you don't know what's not being published. Each country makes its own assessment. This is the balance that the Dutch cabinet makes. Because I understand your concern, we also offer technical briefings in which you can all get this information, in which you can ask: what is a critical part and what is not, and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u27	I'm in the fortunate circumstance that I couldn't be there, so I can't tell secrets out of it either. I wasn't going to, but it's the combination that concerns me that there are countries that are more transparent than we are and that at the same time we hear from telecom providers here that they still have very few signs of this structural approach. So things are obviously happening in private that nobody knows about, not even the target group, namely the telecom providers who should get their safety in order. Then I think that, from the point of view of our monitoring function, we Members of Parliament should ask for greater transparency and clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u28	Is there any structural consultation with the providers, as you found in that letter from 2019? Oh, yeah. Of course, we've been talking to each other extensively lately. A general measure of governance has been taken. There is a ministerial arrangement, which has now been notified in Brussels. Decisions have been taken to provide providers. As we do in this country, we do so in consultation with the providers. "The structural consultation," as it is called, in which we establish at the beginning of the meeting "well, in the letter of June 2019 it was said that we would have structural consultations with you to monitor what is going on, and we will do so in one room with all the providers together, the NCTV, the Ministry of EZK and the National Cyber Security Centre" has not been there yet. But that is because, between February 2020 and April 2021, we have constantly talked about this general measure of governance, the ministerial regime and the decisions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u29	Unlike Mr Van der Lee, I was able to attend that technical briefing. The Secretary of State states that the necessary shares have been shared, but I do not think that is enough. It is not just a question of informing the Chamber, but also of informing society about the high risk of our telecom infrastructure. I think they're entitled to that. The Secretary of State keeps saying: there are things I cannot share in relation to national security or company confidentiality. However, as far as I am concerned, it does not suggest that, for example, the date on which a letter was sent to telecom operators, the date on which telecom operators should have their place in order, would threaten national security. I realise that the Secretary of State has a further follow-up to this response, so here is the invitation to answer these questions in a more concrete manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u30	Wherever I can open things up, I do. But I hope you understand that it is precisely in the interests of the Dutch citizen not to provide information which is detrimental to national security. That's not to try to be secretive, but that has to do with you saying what you do know and saying what you don't know. And that can then be taken advantage of again. I myself do not like to be unnecessarily secretive, so you can count on me to do that. But I do have to put it very precisely when it comes to this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u31	It is only a year and a half since I proposed to the Secretary of State for Finance that the risk models and algorithms used by the Tax Administration/Applications should be made public, so that they could be tested for legality. I was told: no, it is not possible for the sake of the State! It's been a year since they had to be taken out of the air because the Dutch Data Protection Authority said they were discriminatory. By the way, we still do not know where that was at. I am concerned that it is not up to the Secretary of State to say what cannot be shared with the Chamber in the interests of the State. How is she gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u32	There has been a technical briefing, in which the SP group was not present either. I do not want to say that the SP Group does not think it is important, because I know how busy the agendas are. That is why I am once again offering to hold such a technical briefing, in which you can be present and ask all the questions. In such a confidential briefing you can then get answers to your questions. But I simply cannot share it here, also because it is not directly my responsibility. To do so, you must engage in the debate with those responsible for the administration. It is not for me to say here things that we in the Cabinet have found to be national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u33	Thank you. I see Mrs Leijten for a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u34	This Secretary of State has a lot of experience with confidential briefings and how they muzzle you with them. In fact, an interesting book has been written on how this affects our rule of law. That book is called a social contract. I think we should get rid of this as much as we can. I was just asking how we can decide together what can and can't come out, because we have to say goodbye to the culture of 'what we don't want to share, we make it confidential and we do so in a confidential technical briefing, and we put the MPs on the chain'. I would like this Secretary of State to think about how, together with the Chamber, if necessary with independent experts, she can see whether it is really necessary to keep this confidential, precisely because of the question asked by Mr Van der Lee about other countries, which deal with it differently, and precisely because we have all asked, so all the groups that participate, whether you can tell us a little more about the strategic choices that are being made. It's not good enough to declare all that confidential anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u35	Of course, you have issues about policy balances, and issues that affect national security. And you have issues involving company confidential information. Business confidentiality is also one of the grounds on which you are not allowed to provide information. There are companies involved, who then just raise their fingers and say: that is my property; you cannot share that. Or: if you share that, it harms my position. I am therefore very willing to discuss this with the Chamber. We've got a week and a half left in the Chamber debates. I am very prepared to organise another technical briefing in the first week of the recess, if necessary, if everyone can hopefully, in which you can all be present. I am very willing to look with the Registry at a time when we can organise that. And then you get all that information. You may, but I cannot now provide you with information that we in the Cabinet have found to affect national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u36	And that's what we're talking about air. That's so bad. The MPs who do know shouldn't say it. Because then it is immediately said that they leak or that they don't follow the rules, and we can't say: ho, but wait a minute, there are things we just want them to be public. I would find it so valuable if this Secretary of State were to look up the edges a little bit. No one here is waiting for information that would threaten our position as a Dutch State or our Dutch companies. No one's asking for that. However, we ask for the information that enables us to test, including with independent third parties, journalists and scientists who are watching, whether we are making the right choices. That's what this is about. Mrs Keijzer knows that very well. She is a very experienced Member of Parliament and a very experienced Secretary of State. Try thinking along that line, because we're standing here talking too much about air. In my view, this is less necessary than proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u37	We're not standing here talking about air. We are here to discuss the measures taken by the Cabinet to work on the integrity and security of our telecommunications networks. In the letter of June 2019 you can read a lot about this. In the letter of 15 June 2021, in response to questions from Mrs Van Ginneken, you can read about this. Again, I am more than willing to hold another technical briefing. Then we'll find a date for all of you. Because I know how busy you are. I think it is a good thing that you are also talking to your group chairmen on this issue. Because they're still together... I always forget the official abbreviation. It's never so neat to say committee-sneaky. But that's the CIVD, I think. It is, isn't it? That one. Well, in it are the group chairmen in confidence to talk about national security and related issues. It is simply not for me to say more about this now than what we have established in the cabinet, which does not affect national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u38	I actually wanted to say: proceed to the next point. But I still see an interruption by Mrs Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u39	The next point I would like to make is a moment. I don't think this is enough anyway. I think that the Secretary of State is covering all our critical questions a little bit with warm promises to brief us again in a confidential session. But the essence of what this is about leaves them unanswered, namely that society must have, maintain and gain confidence in our mobile telecom infrastructure, and that that requires companies, scientists and tech experts to be able to watch what is happening here. Again, a lot of what is confidentially shared is not for me to explain to society. I hope that the Secretary of State will stop dangling society and do more to make things public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u40	Thank you. The Secretary of State hasn't finished her story yet. I'm giving her the floor to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u41	No, Mr. Chairman, not by a long shot. I do object to the words of the representative of the D66 Group. Because it's not like we're leaving society to espionage. One hundred percent guarantee it won't happen again, I can't. Mr Dassen rightly said that. But we have been very specific about what we can do to take action. And that's a lot. Mobile network providers will be required to take additional technical and organisational security measures, e.g. specific requirements for third-party access to telecommunications systems. These requirements are included in a ministerial arrangement. It has now been notified to the European Commission. It is expected to enter into force at the end of September. Does that mean that providers will only work with them? No, of course not, Mr. Chairman. They're not crazy. They have been subject to a duty of care under the Telecom Act since 2012. In their investment decisions, they naturally take into account the demands they know will come from the cabinet. They have recently been obliged to use only parties other than the suppliers mentioned in the Decision in the critical parts of their product and service networks. And yes, it has taken some time to establish it, I say to Mrs Van Ginneken. But this also applies: when they were sent, of course they didn't hear it for the first time. This is part of the discussion, the structural consultation as I said to Mr Van der Lee. They would, of course, be crazy to go into business with the company that is not included in the list that we have established with each other. In addition, this method is... Cybersecurity isn't something you say we've done this, that and that, so now we're done. Especially in the light of technological developments, this is about every time looking at what information the services receive and what consequences we have to draw from it. This method has been consolidated in the Economic Security Task Force and is, of course, carried out in a structural process in the same way. For example, we remain adaptive to new developments, with risk assessments being carried out each time. Mr. Chairman. The CDA asked in a number of motions by Mrs Van den Berg to involve them in the steps. So they are. These motions also called for a European coordinated approach to the integrity of 5G networks and for non-technical vulnerabilities, such as influences of states on suppliers, to be included in the risk analysis in line with the European approach. At the time, in December 2019, I actively advocated a European coordinated approach in the Telecoms Council. That was not a matter of course at the time, but we saved that as the Netherlands. It has led to a toolbox established at European level. In the geopolitical context in which this issue is taking place, I therefore agree with the importance of pulling up and aligning Europe where it can be done. The toolbox includes both technical measures and non-technical measures, such as excluding high-risk suppliers. The measures taken by the Netherlands are in line with that toolbox. The technical requirements are contained in the ministerial regulation. Mr. Chairman. All in all, at least as far as I'm concerned, we're doing everything we can, based on the information we have now. We have a structural approach to look at every time: are we still up-to-date? Is there anything else that might be necessary? If so, what then? Mr. Chairman. The Agency Telecom's investigation into the KPN infringement in 2010 is expected. We expect it to be ready by the end of September 2021. Of course, I will inform you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u42	You have an interruption on this point by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u43	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I have one more question. Does the duty of care also require every provider to report this to the supervisor proactively as soon as he discovers something that is a risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u44	I do not know exactly, because the question is: what then is an infringement? Is it very big, or very small? Can you act on it right away? I would like to return to that question in the second term, to see if I can give some more explanation. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked to me. The question from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Mrs van Ginneken spoke in 15 months, but it has been longer since we sent the decisions. As I have just said, it has taken time to determine with each other what is needed, but also to determine replacement periods. In doing so, you need a balance between replacing as soon as possible due to national security and setting a feasible time limit to maintain the continuity of the service. To put it bluntly: telecommunications must of course be able to continue and not fall out of the sky. In my view, the time limits chosen strike a balance. The deadlines have been announced to you again in the technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u45	For me, this is another example of the net not being quite able to grab. I hear the Secretary of State say that the decisions were sent longer ago. At the same time, in response to the article in de Volkskrant in mid-April, the Secretary of State indicated that the decisions had not yet been sent. In the committee debate she indicated that they had been sent shortly before, so somewhere between April 18th and May 18th they were sent. When I count from December 2019, I still come to more than fifteen months. So I don't quite understand the deadline the Secretary of State is counting on. I would very much like to hear a specific date on which those decisions were sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u46	I counted as of June 2019 and then you have a little over fifteen months. I have explained to you the reasons for this. I have also explained to you that this does not mean that they did not take measures until the decisions were taken. They are, of course, responsible companies. They're not crazy. I don't have the date of shipment ready here, but I also think it's important to know why... Well, "why" sounds so accusing; that's not what I mean. But what is the reason Mrs Van Ginneken wants to know? 'Cause if I know that, I can see if I can do anything with the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u47	I'd love to answer that question. I would like to know in order to determine whether the Secretary of State has made sufficient progress in resolving the problem during that period. As I said, I experience a hole in the resume when I read the letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber on 15 June. Well, I realize this isn't an application, but you usually want to see a hole like that explained. That's what I'm looking for. I think that's what we all need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u48	Now I get the hole in the resume. It's true. It's been at least 15 months. The exact date I do not have ready here, but again, that is absolutely no hole in the resume. Because at that time we were trying to get Europe on the same page; we have been working on this. I just told you. A general measure of governance has been taken and adopted. A ministerial arrangement has been worked on. In a conversation with the providers, it has been established where the critical parts are and where measures need to be taken. We talked about replacement periods. So at that time, we really worked hard on security and integrity. Indeed, between the deadline of the letter of June 2019 and the decisions is a year and a half, but that does not mean that you have done nothing at that time, quite the contrary. I just explained what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u49	Finally, Mrs Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u50	I think I'm gonna stop looking for a specific date here. I fully understand that the Secretary of State is not prepared for the exact date. It was about getting all the way up to where we are today that I wanted to get clear. It has not become clear yet, but more important is how the problem will be solved. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to deal with this in a very specific and concrete manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u51	The decisions have been sent. The replacement periods are shared with you in a confidential briefing. Actually, I don't have much more information right now than that. As far as I am concerned, I have shown that we are working very consistently on the integrity of these networks. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of the VVD Group: are people and systems controlled when working on critical parts of the vital infrastructure? This is one of the requirements set out in the Ministerial Regulation, which I refer to in the letter of 15 June 2021: people working on critical parts of the telecom infrastructure should be given background research. This also applies, of course, to the fact that a self-reliant provider does not wait for that ministerial arrangement to be established, because he has a duty of care. Again, they would be crazy to risk something going wrong there at some point, because then they have to explain why they waited for that date. Of course you don't. Here too, the integrity of the networks is taken extremely seriously. Let's see. I have answered all these questions in my answer so far. Then Mrs Kathmann, who asked me whether it is not just better to ban certain companies altogether. We have a risk-driven approach. We assume current threats, actual information from the services and interests to be protected, and then look at what measures risk can be addressed. This has therefore led to decisions and ministerial arrangements. It is a structural approach and we will continue to do what is necessary. It is also somewhat false safety to say: well, these companies are no longer and then we are safe. It just doesn't work that way, because then there's another company or another state actor who wants bad things. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore very good that we have put it into practice in this way. Mr. Chairman. I was asked by the CDA group about the disadvantage compensation. In order to compensate for the disadvantage of public decisions which are in themselves legitimate, the doctrine of rights to compensation shall apply. The starting point is that anyone who suffers from such a legitimate competence or public task should, in principle, bear this disadvantage. Only disproportionate damage exceeding the normal entrepreneurial risk shall be compensated. This has always been the line of EZK and so is the doctrine of disadvantage compensation. The threshold shall be determined on the basis of a certain percentage of the company's turnover or costs. So it's not an absolute amount. Due to the particularity of the measures, I have set the thresholds for disproportionate costs significantly lower than in other disadvantages compensation pathways. To the extent that the costs exceed this threshold, they will be compensated as compensation. For the rest, this type of decision by the public authorities can ultimately also be reviewed in court. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to my next folder. I'm going to see if I've answered these questions in the previous story. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have. This is a question from Mrs Rajkowski. In the discussions we have with companies, services, the NCTV and other stakeholders, it always comes back to that structural process. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of digital autonomy. This is a debate about espionage in mobile telecommunications networks. In view of the order of this sitting, I shall therefore confine myself a little bit, but I would like to say a few things about that. We are an open economy, where everyone is welcome to trade. However, within the European context, we have come to the conclusion that this is on our terms. That is why, for example, a complete side step by Timmermans has been included in the Green Deal that if you are going to impose requirements on your own business because of sustainability, you should also impose them on companies from outside the European Union. This also means that you have to pay attention in procurement to the fact that companies from third countries which are subsidised by the public authorities cannot be far below the price of European companies. This also means that the Act on Unlawful Control of Telecommunications, which has now passed through both Chambers, states that not all mergers and acquisitions in the telecoms sector are acceptable. This also means... That was a debate earlier today, in which Mr Amhaouch tabled a motion to see whether the Netherlands can continue to join the Important Projects of Common European Interest and especially the projects that see on the cloud and on micro-electronics, for example chips. We are an open economy. This has led us to a great deal, but we are now taking some steps to see more precisely whether we are not too dependent on others and whether we are allowing companies here on our own markets too easily when they do not have to meet requirements and conditions that European companies do have to meet. This is a balance. You need to think about where you're gonna put the line. Mr Van der Lee spoke about this. European companies use parts from third countries. If we say "we close the gates and everything will be fine," it might just be that essential parts don't come in here anymore. It is also good in a geopolitical context to remain a little dependent on each other. That keeps things tidy sometimes, too. Not always, but it helps. As far as I am concerned, I have answered these questions. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten made a speech which I recognize and recognize as a real SP argument. She asked me whether I should not even be a vision of the question that emerges from this discussion: should certain tasks not be the responsibility of the government again? It's a very interesting debate, but I'm a Demissionary Secretary of State, so it's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u52	You do have a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u53	I agree with the Secretary of State that it is not black and white. There is no simple solution, but the realization that we need to diversify more has been there for a number of years now. What remains is very clear and concrete steps towards a much more active industrial policy that is not only technologically neutral, but also in which choices are made. As a government, you must not solve everything, but you must ensure that new companies are created in the wider European Union that can cope with that competition. What surprises me is that, when it comes to it, the Netherlands chooses the importance of the open economy and trade rather than making those substantive choices. The Secretary of State is going to say 'I am a missionary', but when the cabinet was missionary, I already expressed this criticism and did not make those choices either. I hope that the Secretary of State has moved on in her thinking and that she hopes with me that the new cabinet will make more choices. That is necessary. Otherwise we will not get any further in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u54	Well, Secretary of State, answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is also out of order, but, of course, we make choices in innovation and top sectors policy. That's what we do. Choices are also made within the framework of the National Green Fund. We invest in important topics and in key technologies "industries" is the wrong word for determining the earning capacity of the Netherlands in the future. I'm a Demissionary Secretary of State, but I was very happy with the motion I was just talking about if it were to be adopted. This would show that the Court also sees the development on those IPCEE's cloud and micro-electronics. I just can't take any steps now that mean new policies or ask for new money. That is only the fate of a outgoing Secretary of State, who has quite some opinions, but you know that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u56	I see Mr Dassen walking to the microphone for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u57	I have a question about European companies that also produce in China and often also with Chinese state-owned companies. The Secretary of State says we're an open economy, we're trading and we have to deal with this. My question, however, is: what are the risks you see there? What are the mitigating actions? Who's got the lead in that? In short, are a strategy and a vision for how we deal with it in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u58	Yes. We sent a letter, I think, at the end of last year on the manufacturing industry. We are now going to create an action agenda on that, to see what you can do here too, to prevent you becoming dependent on essential elements. In this sense, of course, we learned from the corona crisis when we came to the conclusion at some point that we needed protective equipment here, but they were not made here anymore. I do not know if Mr Dassen means that, but his question was quite general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u59	The demand was specifically intended for telecom networks and the components that are made for them, partly by European companies in China.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u60	I don't understand where Mr. Dassen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u61	Mr. Dassen, would you like to rephrase it again? Maybe we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u62	Part of the network or parts thereof are made in China. This is done by European companies there, but often by Chinese state-owned companies. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she sees risks and how those risks are mitigated, specifically on that network, i.e. for telecommunications.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u63	That's why I talked about the IPCEI Cloud and Microelectronics, which you could translate as chips. Those are the issues of the future. How do you make sure that on those important parts of our digital society you can do something yourself and are meaningful yourself? ASML and XP are two big players of world significance, partly based in the Netherlands and I am happy with that. At ASML, chip machines are made and that company has grown because we once invested in Philips, which threatened to fall. That's the occasional feeling I get when I look at that IPCEI discussion. How do we ensure that we do not have a horrible idea of the next ASML outside Europe and do not make these products here at all? Then I'm still patriot enough to see if we can keep it a little here in the Netherlands. This is also good for employment and for economic growth. In general, I see what Mr Dassen is sketching and we are also looking at parts of what we can do in it. IPCEIs are an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u64	An interruption by Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u65	I am going to build on that gem of a question from Mr Dassen, so all the credits to him. This is gonna make me think. What I think Mr Dassen means is that we have now identified the vital parts of our digital infrastructure. In certain vital areas, we do not want interference from third countries and certain tech companies. Well, we've got a list for that. That's the European toolbox. But that is also a bit of a sham safety, because most European producers have their factories in Shenzhen and they often work together with those Chinese tech companies. How are we gonna handle this? As long as the digital manufacturing industry on those vital parts is not in Europe, but in China, we have found that we do not want that interference on those vital parts. That is why we say that these other producers are not allowed to do so, but the European producers are actually doing the same thing, because they make it in China. How do we deal with that danger? Do we have a plan for this, European or national?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u66	This is not the solution to make everything we use, in the Netherlands or perhaps even in Europe. These are international production chains where interdependence exists. As I said, that's not always bad. That is one side of this discussion. The other side of this discussion is: how do you ensure that in Europe I am a Dutch State Secretary and in the Netherlands also maintain certain production capacity and facilities? This is a process that you are constantly looking for, where you are also dependent on business and, for example, business climate, wants to stay here. That's that side of it. Then, of course, we have the risk-driven approach within the framework of the Economic Security Task Force, which I mentioned at the beginning of this debate. This is because every time, on the basis of information and intelligence from the services, we look together with companies to see the risks they face and, if necessary, to come up with new necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u67	I have one more question, because I like the answer, but not quite. The question is: do we know enough about these threats and what are they? Because in the letters you have sent and in everything that has been discussed at the tables, including with the telecom parties, there has been quite a lot and a lot of definition, but not really the threat. The production is in China, but on the other hand we don't want it. But it's just a fact. Then what are the threats from the fact that those factories are there? How do we ensure that these factories are safe and that production is safe? I would like to take stock of the security issue that we have now as long as a lot of manufacturing industry is not in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u68	This question comes to me. I'm going to flatten it. I apologize if: will the government go into factories in third countries to check how the hardware is put together? It can't be. What we can do, and that is what the services are doing, is to keep an eye on the risks we are running and what espionage activities there are. We've talked about whether I can share it with you, but that's something that's being looked at every day. That is what this structural approach is about in conversation with the NCTV, the National Cyber Security Centre, EZK and the providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u69	This raises another question for Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u70	In addition, at the time of the production of parts in those countries, do we know at all? Do we even know where parts come from? Because we can do anything about security, but if we don't know where the parts come from, that's a bit of a cowardly measure too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u71	Yeah, and yet... I've got Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I'm sure there are people among you who have a Samsung or an Ericsson. Do you all know exactly... excuse me? A Huawei? Oh, my God. Do you all know exactly what's in there and where that comes from? No, you don't. In addition, there is also a need to make a difference. Mrs Van Dijk's contribution was about Jip, if I have heard correctly. Yeah, it gives you goosebumps. It gives you goosebumps. Then you really think, "What's happening to me here?" At the same time, effective infiltration is, of course, much better organised through networks than through apps with individual citizens. To this end, we should keep a close eye on the privacy of our clients, as well as on the AP and citizens, who realize what they click on when they download an app on their phones. That responsibility is, of course, behind this. But that it's 100% safe anyway, I look at Mr. Dassen every time you can't reach him. I am not going to repeat myself, but what we are doing is monitoring the risks every day in different ways, at different levels, so to speak, and what measures are needed. Mr. Chairman. I have now answered these questions in my general speech and in the interruptions. Then I come to Mrs Rajkowski's question about end-to-end encryption in order to further enhance our security. Encrypting communication, encryption, is of course an important method to safeguard confidentiality and integrity of communication. I don't have to tell you that the cabinet agrees with that. In the context of cybersecurity, knowledge development and innovation, a roadmap of cryptocommunications is developed public-private. On the basis of this roadmap, business, science and government will work together to develop future-proof cryptocommunication tools in the light of technological developments, such as the quantum computer. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee asked me about diversification, which is important. He simply said: avoid becoming dependent on one or two companies. I can see that, sure. That's a good subject to keep an eye on. How do you organize that with each other? Again, of course, that is precisely in the light of what Mr Van der Lee himself has said, that this is also in the interests of companies themselves. You don't want to depend on one supplier, because for starters, it can ask what it wants. But don't even think about what happens when things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u72	This raises another question for Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u73	Yes, because my question was a little more specific than that. The UK Task Force has strongly advocated promoting open RAN networks. This also leads to more diversity. They have even said: establish a concrete ambition; by 2025 at least 25% of the network must have been provided by smaller suppliers or open technology. The British have allocated £250 million to stimulate this. My question is whether that is something this cabinet, or the next, would like to explore. I understand the challenge. You can't go to China and look at all those production facilities. That's right. It is important to identify all risks. That's right. But it is also necessary to work on diversification in practice. Others have focused policies on this. I don't see that in the Netherlands yet. Would the Secretary of State at least like to explore that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u74	That open RAN is a way of achieving that diversification. The benefits and their risks are now being analysed at EU level. We, as the Netherlands, are actively involved in this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u75	You look at the maps and then Mr Dassen runs forward for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u76	I have a very brief follow-up question about that open RAN. I believe that there are still many different risks involved. This network is partly built by Chinese state-owned companies. At least, at least the standards are set. I wonder when we can expect that report from the European Commission here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u77	I'll get back to that in second term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dassen also asked me for an overview of the most essential tech companies. We continuously identify vital processes, which include companies and which technology is important from the point of view of assessing investments, mergers and acquisitions. Sensitive technology falls within the scope of the investment test of the VIFO Act, the Safety Test Investment, Mergers and Acquisitions Act. This will soon be presented to the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. I was also asked how we increase the digital resilience of companies. I've got a whole line here for me. In any case, this year the National Cyber Security Centre will publish simultaneously with the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands, which was today the Handreiking Cybersecurity measures, which describe important measures that organisations can take. There's a brochure Cyberspionage. It provides organisations with tools to increase their resilience. Information can also be found on the website of the Digital Trust Center for companies. In addition, we are now working to make it legally possible for the Digital Trust Center to be designated as an OKTT, allowing certain personal data such as IP addresses to be shared. We take steps to make companies resilient every time. Of course, they always have to do it. I have answered this question, too, in my opinion. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more folders. Well, that's easy. The first is Mrs Leijten's question about the vision of the boundaries of public and private ownership of telecommunications networks. I've already answered that. I do not think that is satisfactory for Mrs Leijten, but it is as it is. I have also been asked to think about making global standards that we consider important as the European Union. With increasing digitalization, it is of course important... Well, "increasing digitalization," I think society and the economy have been digitised for a long time. It is important to see which technical standards are needed for this. We, as the Netherlands with similar countries, are primarily asking for attention and support at EU level, but also with third countries are working internationally to support standardisation proposals that can best support our innovative development, preferably according to our values and standards. We have a watchful eye that matches standards that we support. This concerns, for example, freedom, privacy and secure access to services and applications, not to mention human autonomy to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u78	Then I'll look at the room. Are you ready for the second term, if desired? I see nodding. Mr. Dassen, I see you have another interruption. One last interruption, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u79	I asked a few other questions. One of these questions was about what we could learn from Estonia. After all, Estonia has become the leader in cyber security in a very limited period of time. They have an entire digital government and are really ahead of the rest of the world in many areas. I'm assuming we could learn a lot from it. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at this and how she will take action on it. I would also have asked a question about the 6G strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u80	The digital government is also really a different subject from the one that is being discussed today in this debate. In addition, the State Secretary of BZK is responsible for this. I think it's good to have the debate with him. Then the 6G. We are having discussions about this, of course within the European Union, just as I did before 5G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u81	I see Mr Dassen shaking his head in answering the first question. Maybe he can clarify the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u82	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's not about the digital government. It is precisely the part of cybersecurity that Estonia is in the forefront of. I only mentioned the digital government because they're way ahead of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u83	What I personally do, moreover, is talk about this with colleagues from the European Union in the Telecoms Council. In addition, we learn from each other. I also see that Secretary of State and Ministers from other countries are asking us how we are doing here. We think it is perfectly normal that we should be in a structural dialogue with the ministries, the NCTV, the security services and the telecoms providers to discuss the risk profile, what measures may prove necessary each time and then take them. This is something that other countries can learn from again. I understand that Mr Dassen is a fan of Estonia. I don't know exactly what they're doing there other than us, but I'm always willing to see if there's anything there that's even smarter than how we do it. Then I will really be the first to see if it can be applied here. But I hope that in my comprehensive speech on all the measures we are taking, I reassured Mr Dassen that we are really doing the best we can. And, of course, Mr Dassen is very welcome at the technical briefing that I have also offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u84	I'm glad to hear the Secretary of State is open to that. If I can, of course, I'll join the technical briefing. I have another question about 6G. It is good that steps are already being taken in this regard. But I am curious whether this will come back to that technical briefing, or whether we will be informed in another way about the steps that are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u85	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u86	That's what we're doing. If that leads to proposals, I will inform the Chamber. We simply agree that we are looking for a date with each other on which 15 of the 18 groups we have can go. Well, I guess that's gonna work. If Mr Dassen is unable to do so, he will receive a personal briefing from the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u87	A personal treatment. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u89	Thank you. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken of D66 for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was an extensive exchange, but I also have to say that the questions I asked about security in cleaning up our mobile telecommunications network have not been sufficiently answered. I think our society should expect more clarity. That's why I have two motions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intelligence and security services have for years been warning against the risk of espionage via the mobile telephony network;]] [[Whereas companies, scientists, journalists, human rights activists and all other people in our society should be able to communicate safely and confidentially;]] [[Whereas society has a right to know when the mobile telephony network will be secure and confidential;]] [[calls on the Government to publish and indicate the period during which mobile telecom providers should have cleaned up their network and whether compensation is provided to mobile telecom providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u91	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intelligence and security services have for years been warning against the risk of espionage via the mobile telephony network;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the Chamber to know whether the right to secure and confidential communication has been restored in time;]] [[calls on the Government to audit and inform the Court of Justice immediately after the date on which mobile telecom providers have to clean up their network, whether the networks have been adequately cleaned up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kathmann and Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u93	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u94	Mr. Chairman. It has not become a very technical debate, which sometimes avoids the fundamental question: when you talk about technology, you no longer talk about why. At the same time, it has become once again a vague debate. We have asked a lot of questions: what are the strategic choices that we all make and how can we control and supervise them? But that will be dismissed as confidential. We may have a problem, but this problem is bigger and wider than just this Secretary of State and this subject. Next Monday, we will also be discussing it with the coordinating director, as it is called, the main manager. The SP has already put forward a proposal that will now be examined by both MPs and experts and the government as to what state secrecy is, what cannot be shared and how it is considered. It is my firm belief that the government cannot decide that alone. This is simply not how our Constitution works. Furthermore, does the Minister, or the Secretary of State, who knows for the future? I'm going to a next cabinet when it comes to vision. Now I know which two parties are cozy enough to write together. I do not have very much hope for a vision, but perhaps the spokesmen will hear it and give it to them. 'Cause I think it's time we did it. If the government is not going to do it, then the new Digital Affairs Committee will certainly do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u95	Then I'll look at Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u96	Mr. Chairman. I share Mrs Leijten's view that this is a difficult debate. We are here with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who I believe has done everything in her power. That is why there is such a beautiful European toolbox. On the other hand, we're just talking about our national security here. This is not an economic issue that is just about open markets, but it requires a strong government that intervenes to protect citizens. As the Secretary of State himself said, there is an incredible tension on that. The Labour Party recognizes this tension, but we still want the Netherlands to take a step further, although I also acknowledge Mr Dassen's comment. Anyone who says "dude, we're gonna ban some tech from third countries and then it's safe" has butter on his head. There is no such thing as 100% safety, and a lot of technological manufacturing industry in Europe is taking place in those countries that we are trying to ban. The Labour Party does think, although 100% safe does not exist, that you should always want to strive for the optimal variant of safety. Influence in our digital infrastructure by countries that we do not trust is simply not one of them. But I share the Secretary of State's view that it is difficult to draw up such a list. It's gotta be dynamic. You can't say "we're gonna keep it from happening," because then a new company was set up again and that's not gonna work. So it's a dynamic list, but we should want it. In fact, it is the same steps that a country like Belgium is taking. It says, "That toolbox is here, but we're gonna do it a little harder." Those companies are simply not welcome, for example in the port of Antwerp. But also take a country like Spain, which does the tech from third countries that we don't trust. That includes two motions, one a little further than the other. I'll read them to you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u97	Yeah, this is totally out of control again. Uptempo!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u98	Very briefly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that companies from countries that we do not trust provide technology for the Dutch digital infrastructure;]] [[noting that European allies are preventing companies from ensuring (digital) security;]] [[whereas European allies who do not completely exclude companies do so, for example, when it comes to critical infrastructure;]] [[instructs the government to ensure that companies from countries that we do not trust no longer have access to the digital infrastructure;]] [[instructs the government to ensure the phasing-out of companies from those countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u99	Then a slightly less far-reaching one, saying the same thing in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to identify what is needed to prevent these companies from using the digital infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned by a number of people. It was a rather difficult debate because, on the one hand, it concerns the Secretary of State's portfolio but, on the other hand, it also raises hundreds of thousands of other issues, such as security, how to stay ahead of competition and how to guarantee services for our citizens. It's complicated. A subject raised by several Members is confidentiality. What do we bring and what don't we bring out? I thought I heard a promise from the Secretary of State. Yeah, of course I'd like to talk about what's confidential and what's not. I think we should broaden that discussion. We shouldn't feed it and then stop it again. I think you should repeat her regularly, because you can see that over time we deal with it differently. I asked a question about the apps and the mobiles. The Secretary of State already indicated: she got goose bumps. It may not directly touch this debate, but I have prepared a motion on it, because it is just a topical issue. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that telecommunications are vulnerable to espionage, eavesdropping, infiltration and sabotage;]] [[Whereas the focus is now on measures to protect the safety and integrity of mobile telecommunications networks, while the role of cybersecurity in (the use of) apps and mobile devices is significantly reduced;]] [[Whereas improper use or through "backdoors" in popular, commonly used apps such as the Chinese TikTok allows malicious people to enter the lives of people, including children, to collect, trade or use personal information against themselves or others;]] [[Whereas the Consumers' Association and the Take Back Your Privacy Foundation have filed a claim against TikTok for years of illegal collection and trading of user data;]] [[Calls on the Government to analyse the role of cybersecurity in (the use of) apps and mobile devices and to identify risks and vulnerabilities in addition to the steps taken and planned in the letter of 16 June 2021 (2021D23601).]] [[calls on the government to pay explicit attention to how children could be better protected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also thanks to the Secretary of State for the answer. I share that it is a somewhat complicated debate. The supervisor's investigation on the occasion is not yet available, the cabinet is demissionary and we actually all have wishes. Proper wishes, because I am not reassured and, frankly, nobody should be. We must remain vigilant in this area. I also think that we agree with each other on this point. However, I would like an answer to my question, which would answer the Secretary of State in the second term, whether it is part of the duty of care that the providers, if they encounter things, should also report them proactively to the supervisor. We need to keep a finger on the wrist. We can't do that as a room right now. That's what we have others for. But we do need to have a guarantee that this interaction will take place. On one point, I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the diversity of telecommunications infrastructure providers can enhance the resilience of the telecommunications network;]] [[Whereas the development and use of Open RAN technology is rapidly increasing, for example in the United Kingdom, the United States and Japan;]] [[Whereas it is important that European companies continue to be involved in this development;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the use of Open RAN technology could be promoted in the Dutch telecoms network and its advantages and disadvantages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van Ginneken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u102	And I also hope that European research will soon be accompanied by policy recommendations, probably by the new missionary cabinet, and that this motion can be implemented in this way. I'll keep it on top of that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u103	Thank you. Mr Dassen does not need a second term. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Ten minutes? Then we'll come back to you around the clock of nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u104	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the remaining questions and the assessment of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u105	Mr. Chairman. The question I was asked in the first period by Mr Van der Lee was whether there was a duty to report incidents. There is. Providers of public electronic communications networks and services should report a security or integrity breach to Agency Telecom when the continuity of these public networks and services is significantly interrupted. From a certain size and, of course, in situations where there is a 112 loss, they must therefore be reported. So that's towards Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Dassen van Volt asked me when to expect the European report on the analysis of opportunities and risks from open RAN. That's the end of the year. Mrs van Ginneken asked me when the letters containing the decisions were sent. I didn't have the date of that. But that was shortly after Question Time, on 23 April this year. I think those were the questions. I'll get to the motions now. The first is the motion-Van Ginneken c.s. requests that the time limit for mobile telecom providers to have cleaned up their network be made public and indicate whether compensation is provided to telecom providers. I have to discourage this motion. The first concerns business confidentiality and state secret information. So I just can't share that with you. With regard to loss compensation, I can only answer this after the application has been made by the providers and has been decided upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u106	I still don't understand why the Secretary of State can't announce that term. I still don't hear any explanation as to why that date is such a problem, so it's still a bit of a ghost game. I would very much like to discuss with society, with journalists and with experts whether we can live with a certain period of time when our mobile telecommunications network can be considered safe again. I believe that transparency can be given precisely in the interests of national security. So I have the impression that the Secretary of State does not serve here. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u107	What am I not sharing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u108	Excuse me, then I'm not entirely clear. I was talking about the deadline for mobile telecom providers to clean up their network.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u109	That's right. I thought I was listening now that I didn't share that it's important for society to have confidence in these networks. I thought, what have we been doing here for the past two hours? Fortunately, that was not what Mrs Van Ginneken said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u110	That's not what I wanted to say. And I'll take a look back to see if I might have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u111	It's probably with me. That's why I'm gonna ask you right away. Well, at least that's out of my system right away, so that's fine. 'Cause I think so, of course. We've made decisions. There are measures to be taken by the providers. Privacy is a great asset, also for the fraction of D66. This is often about personal data, but of course also about company confidential information. I can't share it. That is also one of the grounds on which you cannot be public in the context of public administration. Besides, you have state secrets. I just can't do that. I hope that Mrs Van Ginneken, who was also present at the technical briefing and heard exactly how it all works, will simply want to see it. Otherwise, she must have a discussion with the directors who are about the AIVD and the STUDY. These are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Ollongren, and the Minister of Defence, Mrs Bijleveld. I simply cannot make it more beautiful, but let us not pretend to each other that this cabinet has not taken the right measures, because I do not hear Mrs van Ginneken say that either. Well, at least I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u112	You can see it, Mrs. Van Ginneken. Appreciation hasn't changed. That's all the judgment's got to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u113	In the motion-Van Ginneken c.s. in piece No. 145 asks the Commission to carry out an audit after the date on which mobile telecommunications providers have to clean up their network, whether this has been done adequately. This one I'm gonna leave Judgment Room. Agency Telecom oversees the implementation of the Decision and will check that it is implemented. In her motion in part No. 146 Mrs Kathmann instructs the government to phase out companies from countries that we do not trust from the digital infrastructure. I advise against this motion. I have explained in detail how we are going to achieve our measures. That's based on risk analysis. In her motion in part No. 147 asks Mrs Kathmann to map out to the government what is needed to prevent companies from using the digital infrastructure. I also advise against this, also in the light of the way in which we have shaped our approach. It is not a question of a priori banning companies. Then I come to Mrs Van Dijk's motion from the CDA on the TikTok app. That's the motion in part No. 148. We also shared it in the first term: when you hear that story from Mrs Van Dijk, you get a little goosebumps. Of course, the Dutch Data Protection Authority also investigates privacy. Only, the problem of espionage and possible sabotage of mobile telecom networks and state actors is not the same as the safety and privacy of children when using apps such as TikTok. They are both relevant, but not directly linked to each other. Information from intelligence services on espionage and sabotage of state actors is an important driver to focus our capacity and address perceived threats. For security and privacy, especially of children, we strongly focus on a wide range of measures and measures, including appropriate legal safeguards for cybersecurity and privacy, public-private cooperation initiatives and information and monitoring. I have also indicated this in the first term. As mentioned above, the AP investigates apps and privacy. The European General Data Protection Regulation therefore applies. At the moment, we are continuing to negotiate within the European framework of the e-privacy regulation. Colleague Minister Dekker for Legal Protection, at the request of member Ceder, undertook to inform the Chamber this autumn about the possibility of increasing the protection of children's personal data. In short, a lot is happening. The cabinet will continue to work on this. For me this means that I can say to Mrs Van Dijk that this motion strongly supports the policy and that I can leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 149 by Mr Van der Lee. He asked me to investigate how the use of Open-RAN technology could be promoted in the Dutch telecoms network and what its advantages and disadvantages would be. It is an interesting development that sees the diversification that is important. An analysis of the risks and benefits of this Open RAN is under way. The result may contribute to the Union's joint approach to security of 5G networks, including through the further development of the so-called toolbox for 5G security. We're actively involved in that. I therefore see this motion as a policy support, for which I am grateful, and I leave it to the Chamber to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-29-tweedekamer-37.u115	The votes are next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the members and the messengers. I wish you a good night.
