ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue the two-minute debate on the situation at the Avicenna College. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The reason for this debate is indeed the abuses at the Avicenna College, where directors have caused a mess. By the way, these are administrators who are planning to open a new school in The Hague, which seems very undesirable to me. But the direct reason for standing here is a broader interest of students and teachers. As early as 2019, the Minister indicated that he was working on a bill that would allow the inspection and the minister to intervene more quickly in the event of abuses in schools. This has also been asked for in Chambers. I've done my homework and I've come across no less than eleven motions asking for a broad answer on this subject. But in recent answers from the Minister, including in a written consultation, I came across the following. The Minister says that, given the outgoing status of the cabinet, I will leave the decision on the submission of this bill to my successor. That seems to me to be a very bad thing. This is not in the interests of pupils and teachers. Students are entitled to good education and teachers are entitled to a safe working environment. I believe that every opportunity should be exploited to tackle poor governance in education. This bill is exactly what gives us the tools to do that. In my opinion, therefore, there is no reason to allow this to depend on the missionary status of the cabinet. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the worrying developments within the Avicenna College case call for adequate opportunities for the Education Inspectorate and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to intervene;]] [[Considering that in June 2019 the Minister reported to the Chamber to work on a legislative proposal extending the administrative tools in order to be able to intervene more quickly in schools if, for example, serious or long-term neglect of caring for the citizenship mandate or the safety of pupils;]] [[noting that this bill has now been prepared by the Ministry and is ready to be dealt with by the Chamber;]] [[Considers that all possible ways of combating bad governance in education should be exploited and that this legislative proposal provides additional tools for achieving this;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the Enlargement Bill to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paul, Mr Peters and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mrs. Westerveld will waive her contribution. Then Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The Avicenna College plays an important role for many people. After a period of unrest, the relative peace has now returned. The board responsible for the abuses is gone, the interim board has done its job and there is a new governance. How will the Minister work with the new board to prepare Avicenna College for the future, so that the children there get the education they deserve? Mr. Chairman. Incidents are often used to pull an arsenal of measures out of the closet or to sweep the entire Islamic education system through the mud. We read that the Minister is preparing a bill for more powers to intervene in schools, which is already possible under the current law. I would like to know from the Minister exactly what the added value of that bill is. Mr. Chairman. Founding an Islamic school is a fundamental right. A lot of people in the country need such an Islamic school. I talk to them a lot. And what I see is that, through stigmatisation and political opposition, that right is sometimes frustrated. VVD groups in municipalities sometimes sue to the Council of State because they necessarily do not want Islamic school. And parties in this house, such as PVV, FVD and JA21 simply want to ban Islamic education. As far as DENK is concerned, Islamic education is a valuable addition to the Netherlands and should not be frustrated with this fundamental right. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify and remove bottlenecks in the provision of adequate Islamic education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, just to understand the motion. We have freedom of education in this country so that parents can set up a school themselves. We dealt with a law in this Chamber about a year ago when Mr Van Baarle was not there; I also know that there are still a number of bottlenecks which will make it even more accessible for groups of parents to set up their own school. I would like to ask Mr Van Baarle what he means by this motion. Does he now make the government responsible for offering Islamic education in this case? How am I supposed to read that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	When I speak to many people in the country who would like to establish an Islamic school, I notice that they are dealing with forms of opposition. We can give some examples of this. For example, the local VVD in the Westland has gone to the Council of State to make an Islamic school impossible. They didn't do that with the arguments "they don't meet the standards," but with the argument "we just don't want Islamic school by definition." That happens in many more municipalities. I would like us to normalise this discussion with each other and make sure that these kinds of misdemeanours, misdemeanours, are no longer raised and that people can simply use the right they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mrs Westerveld, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	So if I understand the motion correctly, Mr Van Baarle wants the government to map out what is now happening throughout the country to counter, as he calls it, parents who, for example, want to establish an Islamic school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yeah, that's right. 'Cause I'm getting these signals a lot in the country. I talk a lot to people who are on the board of a foundation that wants to establish an Islamic school. When it comes to setting up an Islamic school, they experience from the municipal and political side that there is a magnifying glass on it and that there is fear or opposition. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	Before I give Mrs Paul the floor, the following. I am quite right to be reminded, because we have just discussed this with all the chairmen of the standing committees of the Chambers, and we have a rule in the new Rules of Procedure which states that you cannot actually speak here if you have not taken part in the previous debate. The same applies to Mr Eerdmans, whom I am about to give the floor. So I haven't been sharp myself. It has been a written consultation in which only Mrs Paul has participated. She therefore has the right to table a motion. So you're getting out of here, Mr. Van Baarle. I say to Mr Eerdmans that this rule must be applied more strictly in this house, and that starts with me. I just wanted to make that clear. Mrs Paul, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not want to react at first, but the fact that Mr Van Baarle uses the frame that the VVD would be for Muslim basing twice forces me to react. Just as Mrs Westerveld just pointed out, we are in favour of freedom of education. This means that anyone who wants to work with education from a certain point of view can do so. We do not care whether it is an Islamic school, a Catholic school, a Protestant school, a public school or whatever. It doesn't matter. At the moment when there are abuses, we intervene everywhere. We are calling for attention to be paid to this and we are calling for action from the Minister. That's what we did at Cheider, a Jewish school. We did that when strict Christian schools forced young people out of the closet. In other words, the frame that the VVD or that I would be in favour of Muslim basing is far from me. Actually, I don't want to hear that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	We do have to deal with a situation of desperation. I'm looking at what the VVD does locally. There were local groups in municipalities, for example the Westland and Amstelveen, which indicated that the municipality should not authorise a school, just because it is an Islamic school. In Amstelveen the argument was given: the municipality has something better to do than to start an Islamic school. That is a form of political opposition that I dislike. I do not want to say that Mrs Paul personally has a discriminatory political view, but I can see in the local VVD that Islamic education is being obstructed. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs Paul has a very brief reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I'll be very brief. Thank you to Mr Van Baarle for at least correcting it towards me. I would therefore like to invite him not to raise local incidents to some sort of general image, because I do not think that is the case. I know the VVD groups in the country well enough for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	But, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, we're not going to have this discussion here now. Mr Eerdmans has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thanks for the flexibility, Mr. Chairman. This was indeed a consultation before the elections. That was a moment when JA21 had not yet appeared in this beautiful house. Mr. Chairman. We know the predecessor of the Avicenna very well in Rotterdam. That was the Ibn Ghaldoun, well known outside the city for large-scale subsidy fraud and, of course, for the final exam frauds. The counter is now in four Islamic secondary schools in the Netherlands, all four of which are in opposition. Next to Ibn Ghaldoun and Avicenna, these were the Islamic College in Amsterdam and the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, which we discussed here on Tuesday night in the debate on the NCTV. All four chaos, all four failures and two are now closed: that is the state of Islamic secondary education in the Netherlands. They themselves make sure they're in the spotlight, Mr. Van Baarle. They don't need us there. After Trouw's research, the Islamic College Amsterdam was declared the worst secondary school in the Netherlands. I don't make that up, and JA21 doesn't make that up. That's just the facts. That school was closed in 2010. Then in Rotterdam we also have two Islamic universities: the IUR, now renamed the Islamic University of Applied Sciences, where a hate leader regularly calls for violence, and of course the Islamic University of Europe, which is now bankrupt. That is the state of higher education on Islamic soil. Good. I will now confine myself to the Avicenna College, where the Minister is threatening to intervene in order to prevent further damage in the Netherlands. In order to prevent this damage from being caused to Dutch education, I have two motions for resolution. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Avicenna College, under the responsibility of SIVOR, was in unprecedented chaos and conflicts;]] [[having noted that an application by SIVOR for the establishment of an Islamic Vo-school in The Hague was unexpectedly approved in April 2020;]] [[Whereas it is highly doubtful whether this application would have been approved under the new Law more room for new schools;]] [[whereas SIVOR is now reconsidering the plans for this new school;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to prevent the arrival of a SIVOR school in The Hague or elsewhere in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-473]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	I am very interested in the Minister's response. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Avicenna College was in unprecedented administrative chaos due to the involvement of (interim) board members and members of the Supervisory Board and the Participation Board of SIVOR and Avicenna;]] [[Whereas this has caused damage to the world of education;]] [[calls on the Government to use all possible means to prevent those involved in these abuses at the Avicenna College from taking up positions elsewhere in that education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. There are questions. Mr Van Baarle. I would ask you to put it briefly, because we are already running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Eerdmans does a hate speech towards the whole Islamic education as such, but he does so on the basis of lies. The AIVD has examined the entire Islamic education and found no problems. The education inspection examined the whole Islamic education and found no problems. There are even promotional studies that indicate that Islamic education is an addition to social participation. And yet Mr Eerdmans is here to fill in. My question to Mr Eerdmans is: is it not that Islamic education is not the problem, but that you are the problem with your biased politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	Look at the facts, Mr. Van Baarle. Am I causing the large-scale fraud? Am I organizing the administrative chaos? Do I, or politics, organise that the minister should intervene and that students are the victims of messing, chaotic governance within those schools? Are we the cause of this? Did JA21 close that school? Did we bankrupt them? The chaos is completely due to total incompetence within the boards of those schools. That's what it's about. Why it happens is a question for me. But it comes back and is a repetitive pattern. We also see it in the university world on an Islamic basis. It's not going well. You can't brush that away or stick your head in the sand even further? This is a big problem for the Netherlands. I think we should make sure it grows even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr Van Baarle, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	This is the politics we are used to from Mr Eerdmans, with a lot of bombabaria calling a number of incidents and then projecting it to an entire group, to a whole faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Did you find Ibn Ghaldoun a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr Van Baarle is asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yeah, did you think that was a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	I think we have standards of decency in this country and may I speak for a moment, right, Mr. Eerdmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	If you'll keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Eerdmans always has the same policy, namely to mention incidents and then to project them into an entire group. He wants to strengthen the supervision of one religious group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	That kind of views, looking at people based on religion, we know from dictatorships,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Van Baarle...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	...from countries like North Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	...your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	As far as I am concerned, Mr Eerdmans must be put under supervision in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	Look...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	Before you start, for a moment, Mr. Van Baarle: I have already been able to give you the floor here. You've been able to file a motion. Then we are not going to have a two-minute debate here. It is not called a two-minute debate for nothing. In fact, there has been no debate, because you did not take part in the written consultation that preceded it. I will give you the space now, but if I ask you three times to ask your question, you are not going to ask a question, but you are going to have a full debate with Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr President, thank you for your support. Given the emotion, I may have been a little overexcited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	Yes. It's only 11:00. We've got a whole day to go and it's warm, so let's keep it quiet. Mr. Eerdmans, very briefly, because I think you're also warmed up by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	Sure, I'm warmed up good. We're in the right flow. Mr. Van Baarle would be right if we had 100 Islamic secondary schools in the Netherlands and four would have been stranded by chaos. Then we'd say 4%. This is about four high schools. Those are also the only four Islamic secondary schools. That is why I asked Mr Van Baarle if he thought Ibn Ghaldoun was a success. Do you think Avicenna is a success? Do you think the Cornelius Haga Lyceum is a top school? You may find that, but then you really stick your head 112 meters in the ground. Maybe that's exactly where you're orienting yourself there, somewhere underground. Because the facts are completely different. This is the track record and unfortunately we have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	There are more questions. Mr Van Meenen, on the motion, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Because we are here in the Lower House, not in the city council of Rotterdam. There you can say something about the quality of the local schools. But if you are already concerned about the quality of schools, here should be the main task: how do we make it better? And don't... forbid where it's not good. Because very soon we will not have many schools in the Netherlands, and not just Islamic ones. That's point one. Two, let me ask you about the first motion. Because if I listen to him correctly, Mr Eerdmans actually says to the Minister: do not implement the law. We have here a law, discussed with each other, that goes in, which is called the Law more room for new schools. It gives the rules that schools have to comply with in order to qualify for foundation. Does Mr Eerdmans actually say in that motion that it is nice that there is a law, but for a moment, Minister, for that category of schools, you must do everything to prevent them from starting a school through that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	No, we are saying that under the new law it would be very doubtful that this school would be awarded. We do not think that it seems to have been properly tested. Therefore, it is also stated in the recital that it is very doubtful whether it will fall within these new rules. So we think it is a very problematic foundation, SIPOR, where known problems have arisen. Therefore, the request not to set up another SIPOR school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	But why don't we go crazy and just stick to the law here? That law prescribes exactly what needs to be done. Fortunately, it is not up to Mr Eerdmans to decide which schools should or should not be set up in the Netherlands. We have a very orderly law for that. I think, for a moment, that the appeal made by Mr Eerdmans in his first motion is simply directly against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	I'm asking the Minister to go into that. It is also a question for Mr Eerdmans, but apparently he does not see it that way. That's okay. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	We don't think it's crazy to keep to the law, you think that's crazy, but we don't, that's part of it. I think it's a problem if... the law doesn't say the word SIPOR. It's about whether this application falls within the law. That's the question I'm asking. Maybe I can talk a little bit. We find it doubtful whether this track record fits within the Law more room for new schools. That is the question to the Minister; you are absolutely right. That's where the question is. We would say: go to the utmost to prevent us, as with all the previous cases I mentioned, from stepping into the swamp of administrative chaos around a SIPOR school.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	Okay. Mr Van Meenen was challenged. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	So it's about... Look, if it was a question to the minister, fine. We can all ask that. But this is not a question, this is an appeal to the Minister to do everything in his power to prevent that school from getting there. And then I say, that's against the law, it's not up to us to do that, it's up to the minister to relate through the law. That law also sets quality standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	Here we go later...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	If what Mr Eerdmans says here really is true, then that school will not be there either. But let us not decide that here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	The Minister is going to give his opinion on this. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen. We have discussed new schools several times here in the House of Representatives. We talked about quality standards for schools. We have dealt extensively with this minister a number of times about laws, how do you ensure that schools are set up, that they do have to meet a number of quality standards? We've also talked about abuses. We have already asked the Minister to make a law on this in the Chamber so that we do not have to deal with incidents that we do not know exactly what is going on. That's a special figure in the Chamber. My question to Mr Eerdmans is: what requirements according to the Law more space for new schools does this foundation not meet? What's the content of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	It's not a call not to apply the law. The point is that we have a problem with SIPOR. We do not have a problem with that law, that law is fine, which is exactly like this kind of school, you would say, not to show such abuses. So it is precisely that law that is being applied to this application. Our doubt is in it, and to this end we call for it not to be put down to SIPOR but to another, but at least not to continue to cause problems in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mrs Westerveld, I would like to move on to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	One more question, Mr. Chairman. Because of course the application was made under the older laws and regulations. Even so. Then Mr Eerdmans asks here: apply the new laws and regulations to an application made for them. I don't think that's good governance. I ask him what, according to the new law, with which we agreed, exactly are the criteria that this foundation would not meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	That is what the whole debate has been about: that these rules have been tightened up and that the application must therefore comply with them. That's exactly the point. You say the application was made on the old base. We are afraid that if you do not look closely enough at this new Islamic high school in the Netherlands, in The Hague or elsewhere, we will end up in the same problems. I'm very curious to see if the Minister is in the same position as you and if he can take away our concerns. Otherwise we will see no good in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	That's what we're gonna hear. Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I'm looking at the minister. Can you get on with your answer right away? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Paul, who took part in the written consultation and was the first to express her contribution. I will also respond to the others later, although this is, in part, a bit of a debate on the subject. In particular, Mrs Paul asked for attention to be paid to the legislative proposal on the extension of inspection instruments. We also use it in the official language: not to prevent abuses, but to use it when there are situations that do not comply with what is agreed in our laws and regulations. Sometimes that can be very small things. It can also be very big things sometimes. We've been through a lot of things in the past cabinet period. This can be done more quickly, because in part it is simply shortening the deadlines. Of course, we are doing this very carefully in our rule of law, but this care may also be an obstacle to action if we find that we really need to intervene. In June 2019, I did indeed discuss the main points with the Chamber. After that, we got to work hard. There's a law now. The law has come back from the Council of State over the past period. We need a little more time to carefully incorporate the opinions of the Council of State into the legal texts. During this missionary period, this has to go past the cabinet again, so that's why it takes some time. Our assessment was that this cabinet period is no longer going to work. I don't remember when I wrote it, but it's been a while. We then lived on the assumption that there might be a new cabinet by the summer. I believe that we can now really consider that assumption as an assumption and that it is probably not going to happen. So I myself am now working hard to process the texts of the Council of State carefully. Then it goes through the cabinet. That's not gonna work before the summer, because we're doing it really carefully. This is important legislation. After the summer, so after the recess, we will try to get the law to you as soon as possible, so that we hope he can also be treated quickly. I would like to make it clear that this is a law in which we look very closely at the instruments of inspection and simply want to give a little more scope to act more quickly if necessary than with the current instruments and time-limits contained in them. Dan Avicenna. With the current law, we were able to get out of Avicenna's way, also because the people involved in the school have explicitly sent out help questions, I would say, and have also given us room to support. I kept you informed in detail at that time. We never talked about how that went after that, so I think you were satisfied. That has been really intense, but because there were people in the school who realized that they couldn't do it on their own and that they needed help from outside, for which they have given room, they finally managed to get things back in order and get rest in the school so that lessons were given again. Improvements have also been made in the past year. In the end, all kinds of people have also left and new people have come back for that. Mr Van Baarle asked me how I would work together. I just do that the way we always do in schools. That is, of course, also through the inspection. Of course, we have contacts with this school and of course we are monitoring whether the construction that was needed has started. I can give Mrs Paul's motion of censure Chamber, but I have already promised you that we will continue to work on it. We're still missionary, and we're still there. I'm still very motivated to do my job, including for this law. I myself was very much in favour of working with this law, but it has to be careful. I can give the motion judgment Chamber, but you can also give me on the color of my eyes which is also coincidentally blue... believe that we will just keep working on it. When the law is done and the Council of Ministers has passed, we will send it to you. By the way, it is a joint law of mine and my colleague Van Engelshoven, because there is also an MBO aspect to it. We're in this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mrs Paul's motion in part No. 470 gets judgment, Room. I see Mr Van Meenen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	It's basically already...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	I would like to make a comment on this. The impression the motion gives is indeed: until now too little has happened and now we are going to call on the Minister to give gas. The Minister literally says: it is not; I was already doing my job. That is so far, but here we are also clearly linking up with the Avicenna College, as if that is the only problem we are solving in the Netherlands. And that is the reason to speed things up. I do not think that is the right idea, so I would really like to give the Minister a reconsideration. It's just an unnecessary motion. And the line we've agreed on here is that you don't make unnecessary motions to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	That happens very often by a lot of rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	I know, and sometimes there's no blood flowing out there, but in this case...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	Okay, a response from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	...hearing it pretty closely in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	A response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	As far as Avicenna College is concerned, I have made it clear that we can get away with the current law, also because there were people in the school who threw out a helpline. If that hadn't happened, we would have had a problem with this school. In the early period of August, we would have run out of time. Then we would actually have had a bit of the situation we had at the Maastricht VMBO. Then it will take a very long time for you to do what is necessary to ensure that this is our objective of course to ensure the continuity of education. Fortunately that was not necessary here, but it could have happened just like that. If this Chamber and the First Chamber consider it appropriate in their wisdom to make the bill law, we'll put a little more in the toolbox of the inspection in order to act. Sec is of course the question: will you continue with this law? I just made a promise here. If Mrs. Paul wants to do that with a motion, it's up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Van Meenen, your point is clear. You don't agree, but the motion gets judgment Chamber. I would like to hold off on giving the floor to Mr Eerdmans, because I would like to hear an opinion on the three motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	I can do it quickly now, Mr President, because the other discussion is quite interesting, but it does rise a little above this. I would ask Mr Van Baarle to go back in legal history. I have been the Prime Minister, even once, who has had to have a place and has also given an indication of what happened around schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	So you're dissuading the motion in part No. 471.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	We are following this, of course. When situations occur, they are reported. Then we'll perform when we need to. We also sometimes have discussions with local democracy. Westland has meanwhile become a very special case, but we just perform. Within the framework of the Law more room for new schools we monitor the development. This is just part of it. I see no reason to do this very specifically for this group of schools. It's just part of it, so I'm gonna dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then the motion to part No. 473.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	I would like to say to Mr Eerdmans: we live in the rule of law and we have laws that people can invoke, even if, for example, they want to establish a school in this case. SIVOR has used the legislation we knew and has fully met the requirements we set. They have not yet used a specific application. It's between them and the congregation now. They have legal room to start a school. It's up to the city now. If SIVOR wants to start, a year before the foundation has to apply to the municipality for accommodation. They haven't done that yet. If they don't do it before August 1st, another year goes by before they start this school. I also have the impression that they first focus on Rotterdam and make sure that it is really good again, also quality, in order. But that's how it works. I found it quite interesting to hear Mr Eerdmans speak so enthusiastically about the Law more room for new schools. That law was dealt with for your presence here, but JA21 colleagues in the Upper Chamber voted against the law at the time, although under another flag. They liked the old law better. I don't know if this new law would have had any other effect on this application. They were assessed under the old application and the new law will not enter into force until 1 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	You're dissuading the motion in part No. 473?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	I advise against this motion. And "function elsewhere," where have we heard that before? That motion, in part No. 472, I also advise against it. We cannot impose some kind of ban on people from working. I once had a very extensive discussion with the representative of the VVD. It can't be done. It can't be done under labour law. Of course, when people apply somewhere, they are asked to send in their CVs. Then you're assuming that the school they're applying for is doing some research. That could be reason for some schools to say: that is not so convenient. But it's really up to those involved to work with it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	A law determines many situations, so I can't vouch for the total of that law if you look at how the First Parliamentary Group of JA21 voted. What matters in this case is the test on the application. In my words, if you've messed up, you won't get a chance to start a new school. That's it. I think the question was quite right. It has now happened according to the old law, but we don't know how the new law would stand with SIVOR. In other words, and you say that also in the answer: it is very much the question whether or not they would have passed that test. I think that's dangerous, because then we're going to have a school set up within a city border, where perhaps a new mess will arise. On the basis of the new law, we would reject it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	First of all, it remains speculative, because this application was assessed on the basis of the old law. I think the Law more room for new schools is an excellent law, precisely because you judge it much tighter on the front. At the moment, the law on citizenship is in the First Chamber, on which they are going to vote next week. That will also be part of the key on the front. I hope that this law will pass, because that can be part of new reviews right from 1 August. But in this situation, the legislation as it was at the time has been used. Then you cannot say as legislator: we have changed the law now and we are going to withdraw your application. I know, also from the long past that we have had together, that you are very legally educated. This won't last in court, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to bring the bill to the Chamber. I'd like to see that. I tabled the motion from the context of and triggered by the Minister's remark that it would wait for his successor, a missionary minister, to come. But given the snail flow of the formation, I have to see it in that context. We're withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	I thank Mrs Paul for this generous act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Since the motion-Paul c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	Then we have come to the end of this two-minute debate.
