ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now proceed to the order of the day on this beautiful and warm day, although the temperature here in the room is still quite good, I think. A warm welcome to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and not to mention Media. Welcome to all my colleagues. We will begin with a two-minute debate Elaboration of the new Parental Contributions Directives with the first speaker, Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A while ago, we discussed a beautiful initiative law by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld. This is about the fact that, although schools can ask for a voluntary parental contribution, it can never lead to children not being able to participate in school activities; let me just say it in my own words. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, which states that certain categories of schools, e.g. bilingual schools, can still ask for parental contributions if they meet a lot of conditions. Then, as a club of schools that offer this, they must agree on a code to ensure that children whose parents cannot afford it can still participate. Under those conditions, they can do whatever they want. That was, in my view at least, at the heart of the discussion of that amendment. That has become part of the law. Then a reality emerged that seems to differ from what my intention was at the time. You can now see schools that are going to quit those activities out of some kind of fear, schools that don't know how to handle that code or even start a code, schools that just stop offering and schools that just go on with the current practice. In short, in my view, the law does not yet have the result that we intended to achieve at the time. That is why I would like to call on the Minister here, and I do not have a motion to discuss this with all these profile schools and to find a way out of this impasse with them. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise in a nutshell what our law is doing now. The law tabled by Mr Kwint and I more than a year ago, which starts after the summer, does not abolish the voluntary parental contribution, but does stress the voluntary nature. The parental contribution was already voluntary. Schools also had to communicate this in the school guide and give it to parents. That didn't happen everywhere. But our law prevents schools from saying that children can't go if their parents can't pay that contribution. We did that because exclusion does what to a child. You'll just be that kid who can't go on the school trip or who can't participate in that Easter celebration and who has to do another activity. Mr. Chairman. We are already receiving a number of messages from teachers who say that their school board has said: next year we are not doing extracurricular activities, because that law has entered into force. I think that is very premature. In my view, it is precisely the intention that school boards should talk to parents about the voluntary parental contribution and its purpose, and they can do so very well. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to discuss it again with schools that it is very premature to say now that the law has entered into, so we are removing all school activities. I don't think that's necessary at all. Mr. Chairman. In the Minister's response, we also read that the distinction between not wanting and not being able to pay cannot be made. I think that is a very clear response from the Minister. I think it's very undesirable for school boards to decide when someone can or can't pay. That also seems to me to be a violation of privacy, so I was pleased with the Minister's clear response in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can make it quick. I would like to endorse what Mrs Westerveld said about the Minister's explanation. I myself do not have a motion or a proposal and the Minister does not have to organise separate conferences and so on. I would appreciate it if, when he talks to school boards, I am referring above all to the secondary school boards, and he also takes it into account that there are a lot of schools that prove every day that it is perfectly possible not to exclude children when parents cannot pay the parental contribution. I'm getting the same e-mails that Mrs Westerveld gets. Honestly, I do occasionally mind the ease of some school boards to use the law as an excuse to do nothing at all before a law enters into force. That law doesn't go in until after the summer. A school board has no idea how many parents are willing to pay the parental contribution. My estimate is that it's a pretty cynical picture of most parents, if you as a school board assume that everyone's gonna stop paying massively. I would like the Minister to be able to give examples, for example, of the education authorities that have been saying for a long time: we do not accept this exclusion and we always have everyone with us, regardless of whether they pay or not. I think teachers and parents, who are now often confronted in the participation structures, for example, with a somewhat alarmist school board that says "no, it really can't be," are better armed with arguments and with figures when they can show: boys, this can really be done; let's at least try it before we immediately stop all kinds of fun things. I would appreciate it if the Minister could take that with him in his regular consultation with school administrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr Kwint. Then we'll go to Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I read the initiative law last year, I wasn't an educational spokesperson myself. I loved it and I thought: nice, it's about time. We, as CDA, have therefore voted wholeheartedly in favour of this. But we do see the same problems that we see from the weather, especially at profile schools. Mr Van Meenen tabled an amendment on this last time. At least there is some discussion about how we should do that. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government indicated that it was unable to implement the Van Meenen amendment adopted in relation to the profiling schools;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that educational provision is not distorted if profile schools are no longer able to offer their specific programmes because of the adoption of the initiative proposal of Kwint and Westerveld;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention to the impact on parent contributions at the profile schools and the impact on the maintenance of the specific educational offer of these schools in the review of the Kwint/Westerveld initiative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Paul.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35063-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Hoop, PvdA, has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, one in nine children grows up in poverty. That's thousands of classes full. Often they don't have a school trip, no sport, no music lesson, no tutoring class or can't even celebrate their birthday. Some children also go to school without breakfast. That's indigestible. Therefore, more needs to be done against child poverty and additional educational activities must be accessible to all children. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the initiative of GroenLinks and the SP. But we actually think that it could go a step further. The Labour Party believes that there should be a ceiling on this voluntary parental contribution. Because we, like the proposers, are wondering to what extent that is voluntary. Already in 2017, Joyce Vermue and Jasper van Dijk made a motion on a limit to the voluntary parental contribution. In November, in our written contribution, we expressed our opposition to the exclusion of children whose parents do not want to pay. 'Cause before you know it, parents are gonna have to go to school with a paycheck. That is not the intention in a country where schools are financed by the public. The Minister replied that he was not in favour of this, because he had the idea that a maximum amount of voluntary parental contribution could create an upward pressure, which would then become the norm. We really do look at this differently. That is why we are tabling a motion today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that high to very high so-called voluntary parental contributions can seriously reduce school choice, thereby damaging the equality of opportunity and strengthening segregation in our education;]] [[Considers that less wealthy parents should also be able to send their child to the school of their preference;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the voluntary parental contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35063-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have an obvious question. I have a lot of sympathy for it, that's obvious. In dealing with the initiative proposal, I myself quoted a school here in The Hague, Het Open Venster, where a voluntary parental contribution of €10,000 per year is requested to this day. I think it's clear that that's not the border you're trying to reach. But the question is, of course, how does that limit, if we were to do this, come about? What is the Labour Party thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	We believe that this should be done in conjunction with the various schools. You can think of an average, but the principle is that the outliers you mention are going out. It's up to the Ministry and the schools to figure out what that limit should be. But I think this can really help to get those outliers out; that's the purpose of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Sounds a little to me like talking to the turkey about what we're having for Christmas. If you want it then it is not better that we just determine what that limit should be: €50, €100, I say what, clear amounts, question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Question mark. Answer: I don't know the averages exactly. But I think it would be very good to look for that. I'm also curious to see what the Minister's thinking. We also find it difficult to assess what is acceptable to one parent and not to the other. So we really need to look very carefully at what is a reasonable limit. I find it difficult to mention an amount of money here and sit on that chair. I think it would be very good if we were to get that right, together with the schools, and then set a reasonable limit, precisely to get those extreme outliers out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Hope. Then I'll look at the minister. Can he respond immediately? That's the case. Then I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think I'll get the second motion in a minute, but I can get started. Mr President, through you, I would like to thank the Chamber for its input in this two-minute debate, which builds on another debate, where I actually had only a minor role as an advisor and where Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld were the ones who defended their legislative proposal. I was able, on behalf of the cabinet in the direction of the Chamber, to say that we gave the Chamber a favourable opinion. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint have made clear what was at the heart of the bill. I, of course, went back to what we exchanged with each other during the preparation. It is clear: no distinction is made between cans and wills, voluntary is voluntary. A parental contribution may be requested, but at the time when a parent indicates for any reason that one does not want to pay that parental contribution, the child or the children of that parent concerned may not be refused to participate in activities, whatever those activities are. That could be anything. The most striking thing in recent years was of course that children were sometimes kept away from Christmas dinner. That's incredible, but it happened. They were exceptions, but it did happen, even on school trips or with the additional offer of a school. Of course, we are also simply responsible for the normal supply, for which we are also financed. There was then a discussion, in particular between the Chamber and the initiators, about the profile schools and the additional offer, including bilingual education. There was an amendment by Mr Heerema and the then CDA spokesman, Mr Rog. They wanted to make an exception for these schools, so that they could make a distinction. The initiators were clear, but so have I. I've spoken out on that. Of course you can't do that. You can't just make an exception for one part. That's gonna be a mess. I actually literally took that word in my mouth, but I came back to it a little later, because it was interpreted too widely. Then you get a very weird and difficult situation. Do you have to work with receipts, or do you have to have access to parents' finances to see if they really can't afford it if they say so? In short, you shouldn't go down that path. Then you shouldn't vote for the bill. If you want equality of opportunity that is voluntary, you have to consider that aspect in your final judgment. Mr Van Meenen, as we know him, has, of course, tried to find a way in between. That is Mr Van Meenen. That's how I met him. In his amendment, he said: I understand that. In fact, he literally said that he couldn't and wouldn't. He was very clear that he did not want to go on the path of receipts and such. Give the profile schools that have united the space to create their own codes and come up with their own solutions. I have indicated that I approve of his amendment. By means of the amendment, a can-be clause has been introduced into the law, which literally states that the Minister of Education, if necessary, will be able to intervene, adjust or, whatever you wish to call it, by means of a ministerial regulation. Mr Van Meenen was very clear, not in my direction, but in the direction of the initiators. He explained this in his own language in the debate. He said: the minister could possibly impose additional requirements on the scheme if it gets crazy or if a draft code is really contrary to the intentions of the law. That was a literal quote from the debate. I would just like to say to Mr Peters that there is no reason for me... I'll come back to your motion later. I'm actually kind of positive about that. But the first assumption is wrong, namely that I would not want to implement an amendment. That's hard to do anyway, because that's part of the law. That's out of the question. The amendment is deliberately intended by Mr Van Meenen as a possibility clause, in case it gets crazy, of course these are not the provisions contained in the text of the amendment, or if a draft code is really contrary to the intentions of the law. That is the explanation given by the applicant. The amendment has been adopted. It is sometimes said that people suffer the most from the suffering they fear, because the law has not even entered into. And indeed, we are now seeing movements of schools that are already in advance removing from the additional matters they want to organise, because this law is coming. I agree with the authors, who have now said, on behalf of their group, that this is far too premature. Before I came here as an advisor, I did a little research of my own. This has also been done in the direction of the Council of Ministers. I'm deliberately saying "research," because it wasn't very wide, but it did give an indication. The result of the research was that most schools were able to get away with this and understand the law very well, precisely because of the equality of opportunity. They came to the conclusion that if parents would still be asked to continue paying, the parents would simply intend to do so. I have agreed with you that we will carry out an investigation, that we will monitor it carefully in the coming period and examine how it is developing. We'll do that from August 1st, when the law comes into force. Mr Van Meenen's amendment is very nice, because if necessary we will even have a legal basis to intervene, and I quote 'if it goes crazy'. I will raise this again at your request. We have already communicated very well and widely in the direction of schools how the law is. You've seen that, too. I do not think there is a word of Spanish here either, as far as some people can understand it, but certainly in bilingual education it should be possible to do so. But we communicated that clearly. Of the code of bilingual education, it is clear that it is simply not in line with the law, because there is still a distinction between cans and wills. Part of the scheme seems to be for those who are unable to pay. That distinction simply cannot be used. In fact, I have the impression that their code was already ready before the supporting information was at the schools. So I will talk to them and make it clear that this is just the line and that, of course, we will continue to follow it well. That brings me to Mr Peters' motion on item No. 16. I would ask you to say that you are deleting the first observation, which is really annoying, even for the cabinet. Because we are not implementing an amendment. If that were the case, Mr Van Meenen would have spoken quite clearly here, as we know him. The fact that we have to follow it and that we also have to include this part in the evaluation was, by the way, already planned, but perhaps it can be reassuring to say that again through the motion. If Mr Peters does so, I can give this motion a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	Of course, I do not want to be annoying in the direction of the Minister. If it helps... It doesn't bother me anyway. The VO-Council really sees it differently from the Minister's explanation. So what's going on? We'll find out later. But if it helps, I'll just take that sentence off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	I do not have the impression that the VO Council sees that differently. Anyway, that could be a valuation difference. The VO Council also knows that this is the explanation of the law and that schools will have to abide by it. Then let's get on with it in the next few months. Your motion underlines the need to do so in a very targeted and specific way, particularly when it comes to the provision of profile schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	The motion will therefore be amended and then be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yeah, then she gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	And the motion in part No. 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	I would like to say to Mr De Hoop that it is precisely this law that took out the sting, even when it comes to the amount of the parental contribution. For this law this discussion would have been in place, but not anymore because of this law. If a school determines the parent's contribution, she'll have to do it in consultation with the mr. That's what all the sections are involved in. Just leave that at that school level. It is true that there are some outliers upstairs, but most schools are about the same level. But the most important thing, and that's why this law is so good, is this. You know that I was intrinsically very motivated to say that from my advisory role. It's such a shame we couldn't go to the First Chamber to do that again. The aim of this law is precisely to prevent such high amounts from being applied for, which is a threshold for people who cannot afford it. Then this law is very clear: it is therefore necessary to allow these children to participate in the activities associated with these contributions. Now that we are in the process of properly implementing this law and including education in it, I am not going to start another discussion on the level of the parental contribution. If you're being very honest, it's actually an out-of-date discussion, because this law is just law now. Just let it go on August 1st. The signatures have been signed to the king. The applicants have received proof of this. I think that's over their desk, too. Nicely framed. Now get to work! So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	The motion in part No. 17 by Mr De Hoop is therefore not recommended. I shall give the floor to Mr De Hoop first, with the request to be brief, because then we shall proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	I really understand the idea of the initiative and we fully support it, but I have my doubts about the voluntary nature of the initiative: isn't that pressure sometimes generated? I really think that such a limit can have that normalizing effect. The Minister revolves around it and says that this strengthens the triggering of that higher contribution. I think that this would just be a good signal and that it really cooperates and helps, precisely with the initiative. We can differ on that, but that's what it's meant to be. It's okay if the Minister thinks otherwise, but I really think it's important to set a limit and add an amount to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	That is clear, but it was also clear from the little debate I had with Mr Van Meenen that it is quite difficult to say: this is the amount that should be the limit. It also just depends on the additional offer. That can be a very nice offer that costs quite a bit but with which beautiful things happen, with which everyone can participate with this law in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	I also see a very clear separation between the Kwint/Westerveld Act, so I shall just mention it, which regulates that you cannot be excluded from activities and the proposal that the Labour Party is now making. In the meantime, however, the reality is that a parent contribution of this kind is being requested at one kilometer from here to this day. Then I think: that is not at all about whether or not your children are excluded from the activities, whatever they may be, that you do for €10,000 per child per year. That's really about a threshold for accessibility. I just became a grandpa again. I can already see that my granddaughter is moving to The Hague and that the parents then come to that school and say: by the way, we are not going to pay the parent contribution of €10,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Van Meenen, your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	...but we do want to be admitted. Of course, that's not gonna happen at all. So we do have a point here that is actually about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	It's definitely a point. But through you, Madam President, first of all, he was a grandson, wasn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yeah, sure. Oh, didn't I tell you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yes, I do. Congratulations. Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	It's been a week. I'll send you the photos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	I've seen it before. Congratulations. I think it's just important to say that it's fairly arbitrary to say what we should go for. Because even €5,000 would be half of this extreme situation for people is already a very high amount. For some, this even applies to €500. So you always have a discussion about the height. Again, that's just solved with the law now, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Van Meenen, really...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	No, no, no, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	I shall suspend for a few moments and then proceed with the next two-minute debate.
