ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. The next item is the first term on the government side. We were on the side of the Chamber yesterday. A lot of questions have been asked. I want to meet with the MPs: eight questions or comments. You are free to give your own direction on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u2	Then I think we can start, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that the eight interruptions I spared yesterday are still open. I asked yesterday to give a few examples of the energy bills. I hope to receive it in writing as soon as possible, because that is going to be quite a jumping point in the budgetary cycle. There are energy companies that now charge €1,40 to €1,75 for a cubic meter of gas. The price this year is around €0.75 to €0.85. This means for many households plus 60% or plus 100% in the gas account. That can be €100 to €150 per month. All the purchasing power plates and all the energy plates are completely destroyed, let's just say. So can we also receive that information in writing as soon as possible? Then it could be part of what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. Then he can also answer the questions asked immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u5	I'll do that before the introduction. We understood that question very well yesterday. There is a lot to say, even in the debate later, about this energy bill, what that means and how the cabinet intends to relate to it. Mr Omtzigt also asked a very specific question yesterday. He has indicated very clearly: be careful what you take and what you don't take in those pictures, because if you don't look out, you get a distorted image again. That is also well understood in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There it has been said: can the Minister of Finance, given how specifically these questions have been asked, ask the Chamber to allow the Cabinet to do so in a very specific way? Then that will be ready for next week's debate, because at the moment that is simply not available. With your permission, that would be my answer. I will say a great deal more about the great impact, on which I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt. Even if you don't always have those purchasing power cards at your disposal, but just look at what this might mean, what its causes are and how the cabinet wants to do it, the impact is great. I would very much like to answer all this, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs has simply said that we cannot deliver them at this time, certainly not with this specificity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u6	What debate are you talking about next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u7	I thought there was a debate next week, but I have not verified which debate that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u8	There are debates next week, but whether there is a relevant debate is the question. I shall first give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u9	I am of course so confident that when the Ministry of Economic Affairs says that there will be a debate next week and it will be able to deliver those documents next week, I repeat that here. But I'd be happy to verify that. I think the essence of the matter is that they need extra time to do so properly. They expect to be able to land here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u10	Next week. I think the most important thing is that the information requested is there next week. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u11	I am a little hesitant, because I would, of course, prefer to have that information as soon as possible. That's why I didn't ask for all Nibud household records, but just three or four to have a central image. I don't know what debate is next week, but that could be me. I am trying to follow all the debates now, and that is really impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u12	I looked it up. It is the climate and energy committee debate of 14 October, we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u13	Mr President, I think so too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u14	I'm just looking at what other debate that costs. I'd like to get those pictures right. Then we'll come back to exactly what's in there. Indeed, I hope to hear from the government what the direction of thinking is and whether the government can offer any comfort. I do not want the government to make up for the last penny, but I do want people sitting in an old drafty Vestia apartment with only glass not to go down absolutely through the ice. Those people are gonna lose $1,000 a year if it stays that way. I hope that something can be said about this, because you will not be able to do so with the €50 that is now in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u15	I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u16	Do I have to respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u17	Well, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u18	I just want to underline that I will be reporting to you tomorrow anyway from the AFB in the cabinet. I will stress once again that the Chamber wants this for next week. But again, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is already in progress. I'm really going to try to say some things about the energy bill as best I can. In order to reduce the expectation a little bit; as a cabinet we said last Friday that we really need fundamental reflection on this. We want to solve that and we want to look at it with the most involved directors, but it is not that I am here now to serve that solution. I ask for some understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u20	In the cabinet, it has gone wrong with the purchasing power plates on energy, I think I remember. So I can see why they're trying to figure that out. I do have a bit of a procedural problem, namely that the General Financial Reviews is traditionally the last moment that you can move between budgets and talk about purchasing power. There will probably be a committee debate on climate and energy next week, but it is no longer about whether we pay 1, 2 or 3 billion extra to compensate for the energy bill. That is what this debate is for right now. So I would like to know that from the Minister of Finance. The Chamber must vote today, probably late tonight, on all motions. Oh, we'll vote on Tuesday, but we can table those motions today. Is that what we want or what we don't? That is this debate. Or are we going to continue the Financial Reviews in a few weeks on this point, the purchasing power? What else are we doing? We cannot say every time: information is still coming and there are still committee debates. We need to decide whether a few billion more should go to purchasing power support. I think that's what it takes to keep people's energy bills affordable. That is what this debate is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u21	Maybe one more fact, if I may. We're going to vote next Tuesday on the motions. We are not going to vote on the amendments and the budget until we have had all the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u22	That is certainly true, but it is used here that if you want to cover things outside another budget, submit your proposals to the Financial Reviews and then discuss them with the Minister of Finance. Of course, you can always table amendments, but yes, you will no longer have a debate. This is a pretty big thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u23	I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that you would normally like to take this route. What is avenging here, of course, I wanted to say something about that in the first place, but that is the next thing I want to say. If you turn back the clock, three months, two months, even a month, then this wasn't a theme you read extensively about or you thought "this is about to go completely wrong." One of the things I am surprised about is that the Secretary of State has also recently discussed this in Europe, where many have supported it, is how quickly this problem has become enormous. So normally I would also say 'let's do it all here', but my suspicion is that the cabinet will still have to do some kind of intervention here, especially if it is a more structural problem. But we just don't have that around today. Moreover, I would like to add that although it is an urgent problem in the very near future, it is not a problem for which you must necessarily have the solution today rather than next week or the following week, because of course it affects the energy bill in particular from the next calendar year onwards. So as far as I am concerned, we should have the debate now. I heard the room right. I also feel that, at least at the highest level of abstraction, it is being looked at in the same way as in the circles of the cabinet. My proposal would be that we take that back or at another debate. I would, of course, also like to be at the disposal of us, if we had to re-examine this in a wider debate, to re-appear for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u24	Finally... The microphone is not working. Finally! I accept that proposal. I would like to suggest that today we simply take the second time and also put forward motions, but that we take the debate back when the proposals are there, because this is going to have major purchasing power implications. Then we can do a third-term financial review at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u25	I'd be happy to be at your disposal for that. Thank you, by the way, for my microphone always works. Let's combine that somehow. I would add that the longer we talk about it, the more of the gunpowder I have already shattered about everything I was going to say about the energy bill. But that is more in the category of expectations management.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u26	I'll see if there's any support to add a third term. I see there's no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u27	Or a separate debate, but that's up to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u28	Or a separate debate, but the proposal is a third deadline. Let me see if there is anything new to add to what has already been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u29	The request to the cabinet is to send the letter we are going to receive for the energy debate well in time, so that we also have time to take it. A letter comes in five minutes in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u30	I'm gonna kick the Minister and the Secretary of State for EZK even more than I planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u31	Mr. Snels, anything new?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A third term General Financial Reviews is fine. Mr Omtzigt asked for an insight into what it means for households. That letter must therefore contain all the directions for solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u33	Yeah, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u34	... including the way we handle VAT. So we can really come up with a solution for all households in the Netherlands. That's one. Two. I think this should be done a little soon, because people are already dealing with a very high energy bill. Can we do that in two weeks? Can we get the letter in the autumn recess? What's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u35	I would like to separate two things. I think it is really necessary for the Chamber next week to ask Mr Omtzigt to have specific purchasing power cards, at least a few, in order to have an insight into the discussion. That's the first thing. That is what the cabinet said, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs said: we can deliver it for next week. Two. That is also in a hurry, but I would just like to take a moment to see how quickly we can deliver this: is there a broader understanding of how big this problem is? What are the factors that affect it? What are the factors that we can then influence ourselves? What part do we expect it to be incidental? What are the pluses and the minuses of a solution like France that has chosen? That is actually what we have been told: we are going to do it now; but if the price is expected to fall again in the summer, then we will keep the citizens' energy bill at the same level and we will finance it in that way. What are the pluses and minuses of that? What are the pluses and minuses of a completely different type of surgery? How do you ensure that it is especially fair and just for those people for whom a few tens extra are really a big problem, knowing that it is much less a problem for some others? So how do you make it fair to those who get hit hardest by this? I think we have all these questions to take with us as a cabinet and as a chamber. I don't want to commit to those two weeks. I'd like to take that back in the cabinet tomorrow. But if we agree on this now: I am going to the Minister of Economic Affairs or to the Secretary of State, I do not know which of the two writes the letter asking for a procedural proposal to be included in that letter with a timing on how we want to get back to it as a cabinet. If the Chamber likes it, it can be exchanged or discussed in next week's debate. If the Chamber does not like it and has to do it faster or else, then the Chamber will also have the opportunity to discuss it in plenary or in committee. Is that a solution, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u36	Perhaps I can add that, on the basis of the letter, we will then see what the desired form is. Are we doing it in a third term, or in the budget EZK or SZW? Well, that'll be up to your room for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u37	I'll leave that entirely up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u38	But I think we should first know the schedule from the cabinet and then it is up to the Chamber to decide what budget or a third term it will be discussed. Can you agree with that? I've been looking at Mr Omtzigt. Then Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u39	Mr President, I agree with that. We are now paying a great deal of attention to the purchasing power picture, but I hope that the letter will also address two other issues, namely what this means for certain sectors of the economy. And if there's still a geopolitical component to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u40	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u41	Then we can look here at how we discuss him, but I didn't want to leave it unmentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u42	Absolutely. In that letter we will also take into account the extent to which stocks here are a solution, where you have to distinguish between high and low-caloric gas and whether this also offers options or opportunities to take a faster step in the field of insulation, for example, or whether it is not really a solution at all. There are all kinds of aspects to it. Mr Omtzig is right to mention the geopolitical aspects. Of course, we're all wondering that. What does this mean? Where did this come from? And have we been extradited here to regimes that have been said many times, including in this Chamber, that we do not want that? All this must be included in the letter, but it must be included in the second letter and not in the first letter with the purchasing power cards. I see Mr Snels nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u43	I understand the motion for a resolution tabled by the Minister of Finance, but since there is a cabinet meeting tomorrow, is there a need for a letter of formal notice or is it possible to do so next week? I understand it's complicated, but then we have autumn recess and people are already in trouble. It's urgent. If you can do it sooner and you don't need a court letter, that's my preference. But if it takes more time, we'd like to hear it as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u44	Yeah, absolutely, but I do want to be realistic. I want to do whatever it takes. The first concern of all of us is not so much what this means to us as politics, no, what this means to the people at home. That must also be the driving force behind speed in combination with care. I suspect that we do not know when the debate is, Mr President, but I think it will take more time next Tuesday to choose a really well thought-out solution as a cabinet. So I am really going to insist on that, because otherwise the Chamber would rightly say: that is fun and fast-paced, but with the emphasis on flanning together. And we don't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u45	Maybe I can sum it up like this? There will be a letter from the government next week on this subject. I believe that the idea that it is important that this is a good and careful letter is borne by all Members. Then we'll see when it's being treated. Well, that's up to your room. It may be possible to examine, through the committee, what consultations that debate can take. Can I summarize it so briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u47	First Mr. Heinen, who had been standing for a while, and then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u48	I also see colleagues looking a little hesitant. In my view, the point is that there are no procedural, formalistic blockades here to work on possible solutions. Whether that is a third deadline or whether we are turning a debate into a note-taking meeting, we can just look at that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u49	That's very nice. There will also be a budget debate on EZK and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u50	Mr President, I would like to give you something. We have to look closely at what we are dealing with as the Finance Committee, because that question has already been asked in the last debate on Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. We have also been asked why the strategic stock is low in relation to other countries and it has been said that this geopolitics is so important. But that's how we get... In that sense, let us, as colleagues, also see what we are for on earth. In the Committee on Finance, that is purchasing power and so on, but we should not assume responsibility from other committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u51	Yes. Finally, the Minister, and I think that we have exchanged enough about it. First, the Minister may comment on this and then Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u52	Mr President, I just wanted to say... I understand Mr Nijboer's dilemma, to be honest. It is not the case that I have been very bored over the last few months, weeks and days, but if it is necessary to combine this with the responsibilities of the people of EZK and of Finance, and this requires a third term, I am obviously in a position to do so. If it can be solved there, that's fine. But I'll leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u53	Yes. Mr Alkaya, SP, and then Mr Tony van Dijck, if there is anything new to add to what has already been exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u54	Mr President, if we make bad agreements here, we will have to deal with them later. Now it is presented as an option, but Mr Nijboer's point is that we can only move between budgets if we treat them in that way. There is no doubt that we are discussing it today and that there will be a third deadline, and not that we will do it in the individual budget, because there are fundamental objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u55	We haven't decided yet, with your permission. We've decided that we're looking at the letter and that we're looking at it on that basis... Otherwise, I have to make the proposal for a third deadline. I think we have now agreed to look at the letter and then see where it can best be handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mr President, I simply made an order proposal and the Minister was sympathetic to it. He has nothing else to do with it, because if the Chamber decides, he will be invited, but he was benevolent. You're making a completely different proposal. I have proposed to keep a third term of AFB if, under that condition, there is a transfer between budgets, because that is what the Chamber is for. I can't imagine you going to compensate on the energy bill if there's no money being spent anywhere: either it goes from one budget to another, or it goes through the state debt. Then it is also with the Finance Committee and that is just part of the Financial Reviews, everyone agrees on that. In that case, and that is what is going to be the case, there simply needs to be a third term AFB. I think everyone agrees on that, so we can just agree on that. It doesn't belong in a committee or a notebook meeting, it belongs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u57	Yes. I'll see if everyone agrees with a third term. Well, we'll have to deal with that procedurally. I see no one is against it. Then that's the deal. In my view, the Minister had already promised, but in the end the Chamber is about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u58	Of course, I was only hoping to inspire those Members who might have doubts about Mr Nijboer's proposal. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u59	Okay. Then I suggest... Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV, and then we start with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u60	Mr President, I have another proposal, namely to make the second deadline next week, and then to put forward concrete proposals. A third term, the recess, letters, another commission... It's urgent now, now there's uncertainty for people. With €900 the bill goes up and that just needs to be compensated. Last week it was 500 million. With one motion, 500 million were cleared. Okay, so the energy bill only goes down 40 euros, that's a second. But last week it was possible and now it has to be with letters, other committees and debates. If the Minister says 'give me a few more days to come to the Council of Ministers with a concrete, good proposal', then we will do the second term next Tuesday; also fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u61	Thank you. Now I'm going to be procedural. I think we just agreed on a third term. There's a majority for that now. There is a majority in favour of that request. I am going to put your proposal in the middle, because that is how it should be: is there anyone who is in favour of the PVV's proposal to do the second term at a later date? Just a forum for democracy. That does not mean that your proposal has a majority. The proposal remains for a third period. I now give the floor to the Minister. We shall begin by answering the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u62	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck was very angry at me about his order proposal, but that will be a misunderstanding. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to start with a few introductory things. I have often argued here that, given how our state law works, it is not logical to find too much of the various contributions, but I must say that I am sure I am doing so on behalf of the State Secretary, which, in addition to the major substantive issues, we were also gilded that Tinbergen, Pen, Machiavelli and others came along. Elsschot also came by, and the Millions note as "the mud of the earth put on paper" was a formulation that someone is going to frame in the ministry. In any case, that has impressed us very much. Mr. Chairman. A few introductory remarks on my part, and then I'm going to tell you how we think we're cutting up the debate. On the one hand, the Dutch economy is remarkably good one and a half years after the start of the corona crisis, as I indicated at Prinsjesdag. We owe this in the first place to the enormous resilience of all entrepreneurs in the Netherlands and to the resilience of society itself: people who have joined forces, people who have stood up for each other, people who have just really screwed up. That's been amazingly helpful. In addition, it seems that the aid packages, which are certainly unprecedented in Dutch history, have proved to be quite effective in maintaining trust but also in actually helping entrepreneurs and maintaining employment. If you add all this together, the economy is actually recovering much faster than we expected before. The planning agency predicts an economic growth of 3.5% next year. There are more vacancies than the unemployed. The number of bankruptcies is historically low. Recent revisions of the CBS show an even higher growth than reported in the Millions Note. If you add all this together, you realize that public finances are also significantly better than previously expected. Of course, it is much worse than it was a year and a half ago, but much better than expected. That's one way. There was rightly a great deal of attention to the other side, also in the Political Reviews: these figures say very little about the individual situation of people. This applies in particular to those who have lost a loved one, those who have been seriously ill themselves, those who have lost their jobs and those who, although they have retained their jobs, are struggling with the financial and economic conditions they are personally in. That is quite apart from the horrors of the murder of De Vries and everything we have seen of misery abroad. Mr. Chairman. Although a outgoing cabinet is normally reluctant to deal with policy areas, we have actually taken exceptionally strong steps ourselves during the August decision-making process, assisted by the Chamber during the APB. It is not often that, in August, decisions are taken on an interim basis, let alone on a missionary basis, for so much money. It is also very rare for the Political Reviews to re-create this much. But my impression is that we have done that with each other because we believe that the issues where that money is going cannot be postponed. That is apart from the fact that in many of these areas larger investments will still be needed, so I am moving forward on what some people will probably be asking for in the near future. Think about safety, think about the housing market, think about the climate, think about nitrogen and so on. Mr. Chairman. It is already a privilege to exchange views with your Chamber on this course of action. Here's what I want to do. First of all, I want to say something about the economy and then about public finances. Then I am going to say something about the third point, the broad prosperity. Then I have a lot of other subjects in the category varia. Of that we have already done the energy bill for a large part. There are also climate and a number of other loose themes. Of course, the Secretary of State will address their own policy areas, which are well known to the Chamber. I am going to make one comment in order to make the expectations at the front realistic. The cabinet is deep in injury time, actually deep in injury time of the extension. So I have no escape from saying in a number of very relevant cases that Members of Parliament are going to put on the table that that is up to the formation parties. The good news is that these forming parties are here by now. Mr. Chairman. I have already made a few preliminary remarks on the economy. I do not want to repeat this, but Mr Hammelburg asked about the need for investment in, among other things, education and innovation for economic growth. I very much agree with him that attention to these policy areas was, is and will continue to be, as this is extremely relevant to long-term economic growth. In addition, there is also an important task in the field of greening the economy. At least, in my view, you have to achieve it to an important extent through innovation. By the way, with the support of a broad majority in the Chamber, this cabinet has taken great steps on this issue, including through the Growth Fund, on the assumption that increasing the cake is one of the best things you can do with each other: make sure you have more exposure to places where economic growth takes place and thus invest in knowledge development, infrastructure and innovation. Mr. Chairman. Then I think there was a question from the Forum for Democracy about what to do if inflation continues to rise. Then the ECB can adjust its policy to maintain price stability, but it is not up to me to reflect on that in detail. Members who have been members of this Chamber for some time will recognize that. It was also asked what I think of Mrs Lagarde's remark that rising inflation would be temporary. What are the clues? In my view, it has indicated "but then I shall have a moment to talk to her about the fact that the current inflation pressure is mainly temporary, because the high inflation rate is mainly driven by temporary factors, such as higher energy and commodity prices, which we have just talked about, and temporary bottlenecks in supply chains. But I would like to leave this at her expense, even because she is talking about it and has more knowledge of it and I do not have a glass ball at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u63	It is completely incomprehensible to us how the Minister can get rid of this by saying: that is what the ECB is about. As we argued yesterday, inflation is a huge problem. Today there was again in the news that it has been highest in a year and a half. And that doesn't even include house prices, even one of our questions. So I'm just gonna ask that question again. Why does the CBS ask for house prices to be included in the inflation rate? But apart from that, it's a huge problem. Pensions can be affected, as can our savings and everything else. Then you can't just say, "Let's sit back and watch how things go." You must then make a plan and pass on scenarios of what can happen if inflation continues to rise and we do not get out? Do we have to go back to the guilder to save our prosperity? You have to think about that, don't you? That's in the Dutch interest, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u64	Mr President, the debate had just begun as relaxedly. Actually, I was only in question two in the block of Van Houwelingen. The questions about the guilder and so I have all to go. But I really do think that the ECB is going to do this. Mr Van Houwelingen said: yes, but it is a big problem, so do you have to deal with that? I must point out that there are many major problems in the world that the Dutch cabinet is not or very limited about. We have made the agreement, by intercession of the Netherlands and Germany in particular, that the ECB should play a completely independent role, because we, on the contrary, felt that central bankers should not constantly interfere with all kinds of things that they are not about. That is part of the Dutch tradition and that is something I would like to maintain. It is also true that another parliament will eventually be able to agree with it, and that is the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u65	So you're pulling your hands off. You don't take responsibility. You are putting it all back with the European Commission, in this case, of course, with the Central Bank. And you say, let's see how that goes; let's see how that ship goes off. But we have huge problems. Do you at least acknowledge that? Inflation is on all sides and there is no exit scenario. Perhaps you will get to that later in the other answer, so I'll hear about that later. But you can't say... Don't you have a backup plan, nothing like... anything like...? In 2012 that was still there. Do you recognise that in 2012 there was a plan to go back to the guilder if things got completely out of hand? Do you have any plans for that? Can you give it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u66	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you again to talk through the chairman. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u67	That was a lot of questions at the same time. I suggest I just finish the block, because I come across the name Van Houwelingen a few more times. If we do not like the answers, we will undoubtedly resume the debate through the interrupting microphone. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Houwelingen asked whether I would recognize the financial problems of the European countries and individuals who have to finance a house if interest rates were to rise. In that respect, I agree with him. This is a subject that I have often referred to here and also at European level. One of the reasons why we are more positive about the debt sustainability of a very large amount of debt in the Netherlands and also in Europe is that the low interest rates are much less heavy on the budget than in the past. That is, of course, the curious thing. If you see what interest charges we now have on the budget for an amount that has, of course, only increased very much in euros in recent years, then that is really very small. I've given this example before. When I started as a Member of Parliament in 2011, it was an amount of 6.5 or 7 billion, I remember. That is what was said in the budget at the time, which was considerably smaller than today's. Now it's in the budget for an amount of "what's it? It's a little over 3 billion. So we live in a time with still exceptionally low interest rates. There's no guarantee that it'll stay that way. At the same time, most economists say that they do not expect that interest rate to rise dramatically. But if interest rates would increase significantly, Mr Van Houwelingen is right that this means something for governments, for companies and for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u68	The question to the Minister is: what does that mean? In the 1980s, interest rates were 2%, 3%, 4% and even 8%. Suppose it goes back to 5% or 6%. Those are normal interest rates. What does that mean for public finances? What does that mean for households, who are likely to be unable to refinance their mortgages? Did you think about that? Have you done robustness checks, for example? How do we think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u69	Of course, that has all kinds of repercussions. We've shared it with each other here before. You can immediately imagine that... let me go back in time anyway. What was the dilemma of a predecessor of mine, for example of Ruding, but also of Kok? The dilemma was that every euro you borrowed was incredibly expensive. So if you wanted to spend extra money, to invest or for the sake of consumption, that is an issue that we are going to come up with, then that would immediately be an additional burden on the next year's budget. That money had to come from somewhere. So you immediately had a discussion, and not only about what that meant for public finances in the long term, but also about cuts and burdens. Now those subjects are not away from the idea that we live in a time of free money and that it doesn't matter, I'd really like to throw away far from me and far from us, but the situation is definitely different. I therefore think it is logical that we should at least look at this in a different way. What happens if that interest rate increases sharply? Well, then I don't sign flags every few weeks and blink the Agency's pieces, which say it borrowed again at zero or below zero. No, then it just says that borrowing money costs money right away. You'll see that on the budget. These interest charges will then have to be financed at the expense of other cases. Unless you're gonna let the blame go on. That is the reality. And that, of course, is also the reality for households.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u70	Thanks for the answer. So the question is whether this is a sustainable reality. Let's say the interest goes back to 5%. You could have that passed on, couldn't you? Well, then we know what that means for public finances: that will be a huge attack on public finances. The Netherlands may just be able to make it, but the Greek debt will of course never succeed. At banks, we still have the stress tests. That's something you need to think about, isn't it? The point we want to make is that it is almost inevitable that interest rates will rise again, at least if you want to reduce inflation. So we're all stuck. Does the Minister see that? That was our speech yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u71	For the record, I did not say that I was excluding interest rates from rising. In fact, there are quite a few economists who say that it is likely that you will see something of an upward movement. Economists are not exact scientists, but it is still true that most economists agree that there is a longer-term trend towards lower interest rates. What's causing them? There are parts of it that we just don't quite understand yet. It also includes the component of an economy that is more of a knowledge-based economy than a capital-oriented economy. It includes the component of ageing, particularly in the West, but also in places like Japan. That is all part of the game and therefore we have a much lower interest rate than 10, 20 or 30 years ago. But there are no guarantees; Mr Van Houwelingen is right. He's now sketching the scenario where we're going to go to 5%. I can't rule that out, but I have to say that it is not the most likely scenario, let me say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u72	Indeed, there are many factors involved, but the most important factor will be that the ECB's balance sheet has been blown up by 4 trillion in a year and a half. I hope the Minister will acknowledge that. That's what we showed you yesterday. Isn't that the most important reason? Isn't that what the Minister's worried about? That's not sustainable, is it? He was able to see the chart himself yesterday. That line is rising like a rocket. Probably it's a lot of mess that's on that balance sheet; at some point it's going to have to be written off. The new money that is thus de facto created, of course, has a price uplifting effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u73	More generally, it will have irrevocable repercussions if you have borrowed relatively much at low interest rates and then swapped interest rates. I agree with Mr Van Houwelingen on this. Let me add one more thing. I am not saying that to reassure Mr Van Houwelingen, because I think he is right when he says that the problem is greater in other countries. The creditworthiness of the Netherlands itself is to some extent determined by where we stand in absolute terms. But it is also largely determined by where we stand in relative terms. What if something changes the interest rate climate? It is therefore very likely that the countries which now fall into the triple A category will still fall into that category. Why? Because the comparison with the different economies is an important element. And the Netherlands is one of the very few countries that consistently has a triple A rating. Mr. Chairman. Another question from Mr Van Houwelingen, namely whether I can guarantee that Dutch people can always pay in cash. He then asks about a subject that I have often dealt with, including in committee debates. I see Mr Alkaya appearing. He recognizes that, because I have often had an exchange of views with him on this. And I have very often stressed that cash, as far as this cabinet is concerned, is legal tender, that there is no plan to change that, that it is a means of payment that many Dutch people still rely on, that acceptance is also high, that it is a good back-up facility, at least in the future as I can foresee it, and that at the moment I have also reported this to your Chamber in July, chairman of the Dutch Bank, Mr De Nederlandsche Bank talks with the Social Dialogue Payment transactions, the MOB does not express an American opinion on a covenant of cash, precisely to ensure that cash will continue to function properly in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u74	In fact, even in the previous composition of the House of Representatives, the entire Chamber supported the SP's motion to keep it that way. I do not think that will have changed in the new composition. My question to the Minister is about the European Central Bank and the policy of the European Central Bank. And of course they're independent in that, aren't they? I mean, there are more independent institutions that need to be able to take their decisions independently of political interference. And I think a lot of parties support that, too. But that does not relieve politicians of the duty to be able to express an opinion on this, and also to exercise influence. So by having an opinion on this as Minister of Finance and proclaiming the Dutch interest in the policy of the European Central Bank, have you not right to undermine all that independence? That's gotta be possible, right? So I would ask the Minister of Finance to be more active in this, to outline the Dutch interest. For the Chamber has already done so: we have already sent a letter containing the disastrous effects of the European Central Bank's policy. And my question to the cabinet is: are they prepared to do so more actively?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u75	In extremely courteous terms, Mr Alkaya leads me along a slippery path, because he says: it is, of course, logical that the cabinet does not like it, but can the minister not agree with it? That's how I understand him, and I understand that in my own right. I also believe that it is up to the Chamber and parliamentary groups to express their opinion on this policy, they would need it. And I know that the Chamber has done the same. At the same time, I think that principle is very important. I think the principle is really important that we should be on a roll, because if we were to do so, I would not only do so, but each of my colleagues in the eurogroup would do so, and so would each of the Heads of Government. They would talk about this all the time, and then the Bank would become a game ball of political debate much more than it is now. And I really do see that sometimes in the short term that seems attractive if you want to get something done, but I think that the long-term damage to the institute is such that we shouldn't want that with each other, apart from the concerns we have about interest rates, inflation, so just more things separate from the role of the ECB, regardless of the things that we just see coming towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u76	My request to the cabinet was, on the contrary, an opinion on it, and be open about it. That doesn't mean you're compromising independence. That does not mean that you should be given the opportunity as a Member State or as a European Commission or something like that to influence that policy, to get control of it or something. But you haven't done that at the time you express your opinion; then you just show that you stand up for the national interest, the importance of the Netherlands. And I think it could be in a pretty innocent way. Look, my group is in favour of monetary policy. That's a good opportunity to have. At the same time, I note that the European Central Bank has gone on for far too long, and that monetary expansion has continued in times of economic growth. And if no one says that, if everyone says "they're independent, so they can just go on with that disastrous policy," well, they'll go on with it. Does the Minister see that this has made the possibilities that the European Central Bank has more and more rigid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u77	I think it is up to the central bankers and the Governing Board of the ECB to have an opinion on this. The moment the cabinet has an opinion, that's not an obligatory thing you have just as much fun for it. Then the next question, including from the Chamber, is: yes, that is excellent, but what are you going to do about converting that opinion into policy? And then you immediately ended up with that influence. What I do agree with Mr Alkaya, and that is what I believe is in his comments, is that the limits of ECB policy are found in the Treaty of the European Union. It states what agreements there are and what the ECB has to abide by. There is a judge who deals with this, not the Minister of Finance, nor the Minister of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u78	Thank you. Mr Azarkan van DENK and then Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u79	Looks like a small point about the cash and the deposit. I get complaints from many entrepreneurs about the possibility to deposit. There are also banks that have written letters stating that entrepreneurs will be charged €5 for handling one 200 note. That's frightening. That is, if I charge you very quickly, 2.5% for one note. Those entrepreneurs say, "But we didn't make that money, did we? That's from the government." In fact, it's still not theirs. Legally, they have it on loan. Why are they being charged for this high cost? Does the Minister have any regard for the needs of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u80	Yes, and Mr Azarkan is really getting a point right here. There are several aspects to this, which we have discussed here more often. It is about the point that Mr Alkaya has raised very often, about access to cash. I agree with you very much. I think there is also a very broad majority in the Chamber. It's the element of collapse, what entrepreneurs do. There is another branch in that, because on the one hand it is about how much you have to pay for it. The other side of the branch is Mr Stoffer's question, namely: where can you do that? That is also a very relevant question, because that is also about safety, that you should not drive tens of kilometres with a lot of cash in your back seat. I understand that entrepreneurs don't want that. So each of these subjects is now at the MOB. Access to landfill is part of that. The price of dumping is also part of that in my memory. I say to Mr Azarkan that I will check that specifically. These talks will be concluded this autumn. Then I'll inform the room. If there are any questions left, we can resume the debate on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u81	I would like to continue on the issue of monetary enlargement, which has actually led to a huge increase in the ECB's balance sheet. The Member of the Forum was right to talk about this. Mr Alkaya of the SP spoke about it. Left and right actually talked about it. I understand very well that the Minister says that he cannot make any statements about this, 'because the ECB, because it is independent'. But perhaps the Minister will be prepared to look, for example, at what that huge increase in money has taken place... because we agree that it has taken place. Four trillion in the last two years. What is it? Five, six years. 60 billion euros a month. That's been put in the house speculation market, among other things. Perhaps the cabinet is prepared to take a look at the effects of that monetary policy on the housing market and the price drive. Then you don't make any statements about it, but you might be able to point out some causes and consequences. Why is it so incredibly fragile? Actually, you're living with some kind of monetary time bomb.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u82	If it is placed in the color bath of the monetary time bomb, it becomes complicated to study it. Mr Van Raan understands that like no other. What I was about to say to him is that I would like to look at what the ECB itself has done about investigations. They may also be about where that money went. I could, of course, share that with the Chamber. Mr Van Raan's question to the Ministry of Finance: I think that is going to be rather complicated. I don't know if we're equipped to do that. Let me start by getting rid of the color bath, looking at what information the ECB has on this and sharing it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u83	If by "not putting the monetary time bomb in a color bath" the Minister means that he wants to disprove it or defuse it, I am totally fine with that. If the causes and consequences can be identified in a certain way without those qualifications, I think that is a very good commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u84	Yes, but I do want to be very specific, otherwise we are threatening to make wrong agreements. I would like to assure Mr Van Raan, and of course the rest of the Chamber, that I am going to investigate whether I will check what publicly available research the ECB itself has done on where the money from monetary expansion has gone. I would like to look into that, but I would like to examine it without prejudice, in any direction whatsoever, because it seems different in the exchange of views with Mr Van Raan that I make his thoughts mine, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u85	Thank you. First Mr Azarkan van DENK and then Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u86	Now I'm getting a little suspicious, too. I think it is a big deal for the Finance Minister to say here that we have pumped 3,200 billion into the economy and that we are going to see where that has gone. You can't explain that, can you? I see the Minister laughing himself now. He can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u87	Well, I was actually laughing at something else. I laughed at the undertones, at the enthusiasm of Mr. Azarkan. I would really like to see what information there is. I would not be surprised if the ECB did have this information publicly accessible. Then that will also help, not only for Mr Van Raan, because I think several Members want to know that, also given the interruptions and the comments. I think that is much more sensible than to come up with a perspective on some of the issues that Mr Alkaya asked for, which I understand very well from his political point of view, but what I, as the Dutch Finance Minister, think should stand for the independence of the bank, is not sensible. I thought Mr Azarkan was always on my side on that last point, but perhaps he left me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u88	No, certainly, on that last point, I am more on the side of the Minister than on the side of the SP, to turn that down ideologically, but I am looking at what the facts are. I think you can expect the ECB to look at it in the interim. There are important people who perform important tasks there. It can't be that we're not going to see where it ended up until after 3,200 billion have been put away. I don't think that's something I can back up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u89	Then I'm going to finish the promise, and then I'm going to put another one next to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u90	Then I'll come back!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u91	Mr Van Raan is now making the gesture that he does not want me to go to Mr Azarkan now, but they will have to solve that together. I really want to start by looking at what the ECB itself has done for investigations because, I suspect, the ECB itself wanted to know the impact of policies and where the money went. So I guess, but I'm not sure there's any information about it. I do not know whether that exists at the level of detail that Mr Azarkan is looking for. So that's what I want to start with. Then, of course, I can also look at what other information is available. I suspect there is some information that does answer that. I just want to watch out for people in the Ministry to give that question, because we are very limited to that. So what if I do those two things and get back to the room? If Mr Azarkan does not like it, then I know him well enough that he will start there during an AO or a debate. And I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u92	Here's what I'd like to say. We visited the President of the ECB here once and he had all kinds of figures. He then said that he had reduced unemployment in Europe by millions on his own, that he had reduced inflation tremendously, even 'close under two percent' as he so nicely put it. If it's going to be that kind of numbers, so in the sense of "we of toilet duck advise toilet duck," then I don't need that much. So I also ask the Minister if there can be any critical reflections from institutions outside the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u93	I'm now threatening to become some sort of mailbox for everything. I understood from the Chamber and also from Mr Draghi at the time what the appreciation of the discussion was afterwards. However, Mr Van Raan asked another question, namely where the money went and to what extent it had had an effect on housing prices, for example. That's how I understood him. That is a factual question which I hope I can also give a factual answer to. So I want to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u94	I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy and then to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u95	Mr Van Raan spoke of a monetary time bomb, which I thought was a good formulation. Yesterday, I pushed the picture I have here in my hand under the nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u96	I don't think your microphone is fully on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u97	Apologies. On that picture you see the very strong increase from 4 million to 8 million. That's not sustainable, is it? You can't look at it and think, "Well, what does it matter?" This is a huge problem, isn't it? This can't be other than fatal, can it? Then there's my second question. Does this not mean that backup plans must be put in place when the euro collapses, which is a matter of time for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u98	But there's something else going on here. I do not think it is a matter of time before the Forum for Democracy collapses, but it is the wish of the Forum for Democracy that it collapses. The Forum for Democracy is one of the parties that wants to end the euro. That's really different. I'm really an opponent of it myself. I believe that the European Union has great added value. By the way, with all kinds of looming errors, we chose the euro at the time. Many of those weave errors you would have preferred to solve at the front than during the road. Many of these looming errors have been solved, but there are still a number to be solved, think of the banking union and think of the capital market union. But there are more. So, of course, it is true that if you were to re-introduce the euro, you would have done so in a different way than was done at the time. At the same time, I understand that, given the state of the crop at the time. The generations after the introduction of the euro have tried to remove many of the looming errors. But I can't and I won't go along with the logic of "Oh, please, let's stop."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u99	That, of course, is not an answer to my question. I had two questions. Perhaps you could at least try to answer that. If you see that picture I distributed yesterday, is it crystal clear that it is not sustainable, to use that word that is so popular, not sustainable? That balance is totally blown up. This is gonna go wrong sometime, isn't it? Indeed, we are totally opposed to the euro, but apart from that, you should startle the apelazarus and think equally as a minister in Dutch interest: what exit plans do we have? So that's my question, two questions. Doesn't that scare you and don't you think "this can't go well"? And the second question: what are you doing about it? How do you protect the Dutch when things go wrong? You must have a plan for that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u100	Mr Van Houwelingen asks questions that are still in my set. I would be happy to answer all of them here, but perhaps it would be more convenient if I did it in the right order. If he does not have sufficient answers, he will undoubtedly report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u101	Thank you. There is also a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u102	When the first set is finished, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u103	That seems most sensible to me, but I dare not say that we work in cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u104	That's an infected concept, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, that did not come into being in the debate with me, but I know that this should not be the issue anymore. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer and Mr Azarkan also asked why this economic growth is not fully reflected in purchasing power. That is also an intellectually correct question. By the way, you have to take it last year. I myself found one of last year's fascinating things that we had to deal with an unprecedented crisis and a purchasing power that was at least more or less flat in the static purchasing power picture. That was, of course, exceptional. We have never seen such a crisis before and then a purchasing power that looks that way. Because we all remember the purchasing power cards from 2009, 2010 and so on. The good news is that the economic expectations are positive, that in the static calculations there is generally a very small plus, but of course we have already noticed with each other that very probably the gas bill is throwing soot in the food. So we really have some repair work to do there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzig asked whether due to the high public debt, I still see a way out of the ECB's low interest rate policy. That is a bit along the lines of the answers I have just given, but I would like to add a few more things. That is what Mr Omtzigt and I probably agree very much. I have just argued that the ECB is independent, that monetary policy should be shaped there, and that the ultimate arbitrator is the judge on the basis of the Treaty. However, in a broader sense, I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is essential for governments themselves to be able to accommodate any increases in interest rates, interest rates and thus increases in interest charges. That is something that countries really have to do themselves. It is therefore also necessary that countries, governments, take steps to ensure that they control those levels of debt, given current interest rates, but also taking into account rising interest rates there. By the way, Mr Omtzigt will immediately recognize that rising interest rates do not translate from one day to the next into higher charges, because much of that money is invested for a longer period of time, so you have a run-in period, but then you have the potential to give the problem a gift. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Omtzig also asked for Italy and collapsed without an emergency fund, without an ECB policy. For the record, I really want to emphasise, also because, of course, there is always a broader view of this type of debate, that a country that is leaving the euro is not in any way on the agenda. I think speculating on this is really unwise from my point of view. On the contrary, it is striking how well the euro area has survived the corona crisis and how relatively resilient it has proved. That does not alter the fact that there are risks; of course, Mr Omtzigt also points out that there are risks. That's why we report regularly to the Chamber, including those risks. The latest annual letter on the risks of ECB policy, I believe, was sent to the Chamber in May of this year. In December 2019, following a commitment to Mr Omtzigt himself, I sent the Chamber a much more comprehensive overview of all available risk reports. Mr. Chairman. I'd think that would bring me to the end of my first part. Then I come to public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u105	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u106	I am not a member of the Forum for Democracy, I really do not want to get rid of the euro, but I am very worried. It was never intended that the Central Bank now owns tens of percent of the public debt of Italy, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands, or holds tens of billions of shares, including shares of companies located outside the European Union. If Mr Hoekstra had followed the economy instead of rights, and he had said that the Central Bank had to buy shares from South African firms or something, he would never have gotten his bull. So the European Central Bank is doing things that no one really thought ten years ago: it was created for that purpose. No one. My question was whether there has been a warning over the past two or three years that if interest rates do not rise or if that European Recovery and Resilience programme does not come, Italy will be in trouble. According to this Minister, is Italy, Spain and Greece still able to finance themselves independently on the European capital markets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u107	Maybe I still have to say a few things about this, including what is striking about the crisis that is behind us. If you look back at the period in which the major European plans were announced by the Heads of Government, then the spread before that was actually relatively limited. They have become even smaller after those plans have been put on the table, I say out of my mind. What I found special, also because the crisis was unpredictable in any case but potentially also had very big consequences, was that the spread was so low and apparently there was relatively high confidence in the euro area. I have no further indication that it would have been otherwise. It is also striking that Mr Omtzigt will recognize that the emergency fund has not finally been used. The fund which was built up in the credit crisis has therefore not been used. Moreover, we have had a considerable discussion as to whether, under other conditions, you should be allowed to do so. I myself advocated, supported by a great majority in the Chamber, that there should be no improper use of it, no use other than under normal conditions. I think that is also wise, because that means that the pot of money is available for another time and for another type of problem. I do agree with Mr Omtzigt on the following, which was also contained in his previous question. Looking at the euro area, many countries still have a considerable challenge in terms of sustainable and robust economic growth. It goes together with a debt mountain that has increased further. If you add a changing interest rate climate to that, then the problem has, of course, become bigger rather than smaller. I agree with all of that, in a general sense. At the same time, it is true that there is much less discussion, much less concern about debt sustainability than about the credit crisis, also because the crisis is different and countries have managed to get out of that crisis quite firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u108	A specific question. Have there been any warnings that Italy could go bankrupt if there was or was not on the outside or on the inside? The answer could be yes or no. Two. Are Italy, Spain and Greece, in the eyes of the Dutch Finance Minister, currently able to finance themselves if the European Central Bank were to stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u109	I understand that they are yes/no questions, but that suggests that I would have those answers. I'm not the one who gets the first call when there's a problem with a country's creditworthiness. In fact, it is just so striking in this crisis that there has actually been very little to see from the spreads and that at no time has a country's creditworthiness been compromised. Nor is there any country that has knocked on the emergency fund. That is actually what the answer is. I'll add something to that. Of course, there has been a lot to do about the whole resilience package that we have accepted. It is very big money, it is very big money from the Member States, but if it were to be to save one of these countries in a situation where creditworthiness would really be under pressure, it would actually be too small again, especially if you spread it across all those countries. So this would not have been the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u110	If I only have eight, I'll wait, because I won't get much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u111	Perhaps Mr Eppink of JA21 will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u112	Yeah, I'll take over in the platoon. I have here a statement from the Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, the man of whatever it takes. That's what he showed me. He also did what he said in 2012, and that is why we have this huge debt. 80% of the GDP of the euro area is in the books of the European Central Bank. And what does Mr. Draghi say? We are not going to live up to that 3% standard, we are going to have a large budget, our budget is fundamentally extensive. It's both wide and expensive. So the Italians continue with 160% public debt of the GDP. Then what will the Minister say to Mr. Draghi? Mr. Draghi whatever it takes is blackmailing the eurozone to constantly contribute. In the future, we'll be much harder. In the past, he started. We know with whatever it takes what he is capable of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u113	These are really two very different things. One is what Mr Draghi has done as President of the ECB. Certainly at the beginning, but also later, it received broad support in the Chamber. Almost all experts agree that what he did, in particular at the beginning, was a good approach and has been stabilising for the euro area. There is more discussion among economists about the impact on the longer term. But once again, what he did in the first phase, many consider to be extremely sensible and very correct in timing. Then more generally about countries and budgetary rules and what I think they should do. In any case, I believe that countries should shape their economies in such a way that they have the prospect of sustainable economic growth. I have often argued here that sound public finances and agreements in Europe are, as far as I am concerned, a very important means of helping them, but not an end in itself. Although I think those rules are important and it is important for hygiene in such a company that you keep to agreements, I have never been religious in exactly that 60% or exactly that 3%. No, it's much more about whether your debt is really sustainable, whether your public finances are in order. This must be in order to be at the service of sustainable economic growth. Why do you want that? Because you just want to achieve as much well-being as possible for as many citizens as possible in your country. That's what politicians have to be for on Earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u114	Then there is economic logic. The Italian economy has not grown over the past 25 years, but public debt has grown enormously to 160% of GDP. Mr. Draghi says, "I'm going on, I'm not going back to the SGP not the party but the pact." I'm not going to stick to that anymore. And then what's gonna happen? How far can he go at all? He puts pressure on the rest of the euro area and is actually blackmailing other Member States, including the more economical Member States like the Netherlands, of which you are Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u115	I think that there too you should distinguish between the short and long term. I think I was the Prime Minister of Finance who said in the corona crisis that those budgetary rules would not make sense in the short term. Then they're not sensible and helpful. That was on my instincts. We also agreed that we would extend that agreement and now have to talk to each other about how long it should last. By the way, I agree with all the economists that we are now walking out of that crisis again. You will have a discussion about how to deal with it in the next calendar year and certainly in the calendar year after that. Then I would be in favour of taking up the recipe that is actually RRF's decision, which is reform, investing in those things that lead to economic growth and ensuring that public finances are better organised. The latter is true, quite frankly, for the whole euro area, but certainly for those countries that are most vulnerable to it. This is a task for the Member States. The Netherlands also has work to do there. We have our own tasks in the areas of reform, investment and innovation, and we also need to look at public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u116	I commend your optimism, but there has been little reform in Italy over the past 25 years. Draghi says: I'm going to do that now; I need more money for that. You'll get more public debt. When's that gonna end? Is there a light at the end of the tunnel or do you assume that there is a light to reassure everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u117	I do not have a cookbook for each of the other Member States of the European Union. Besides, I don't think it's me either. It is up to me, in general terms, to discuss with each other in the Eurogroup and in the Ecofin what is economic and financial wise for all of us. What responsibility do we all have and what responsibility do we have specifically for our own economy and for our own public finances? I understand the situation as it is. It's dramatically different from one and a half years ago. I would like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, Member States have a responsibility to return to that path of sustainable economic growth. I would like to say that I really agree with Mr Eppink that one of the problems of the euro area and of Europe was that economic growth is too low in many places. That is one of the things we have to look at in Europe anyway. We don't invest enough in innovation. The dynamic power can go further up. We are passed left and right by the Chinese and the Americans in terms of artificial intelligence. Europe spends 5% of the global budget and the other two 95% or 90%. Of course, that can't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u118	Of course, you have to think twice. Italy did not want money from the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, because it is subject to conditions, conditions for reform. No, they wanted money from the RRF, the Recovery Fund, and mostly donations, without conditions. As a merchant, you should think of that, and certainly as a financier and economic expert?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u119	I look at a lot of things. This is not just about looking at public finances, it is about looking at them as a merchant. That is why I have been arguing here in the Chamber for many years that these public finances are very important, but are at the service of sustainable economic growth. That is where the big task lies. I also agree with Mr Eppink that all Member States, especially those with a very high level of debt, still have much bigger debt levels than before the crisis. That's not something you've arranged from today to tomorrow. Of course, you would rather look at those Member States that are far above 100% than at those that are far better off than at the Netherlands. There are. Let's be honest about that, too. We ourselves are quite satisfied, even in this House, I understand that we have been below 60%. Most of the countries in Eastern Europe, our friends and friends in Sweden and Denmark, let alone countries such as Luxembourg and Norway, which are of course not members of the Union, all have a much better debt position than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u120	I'll ask one last question. You are referring to countries in northern Europe. As you know, Denmark and Sweden are not members of the euro area and do not have all these problems. We are in the same ship and when the Italians say: it doesn't matter, I'm going to do it anyway, because we are a big country and no one can stop us, yes, we are all in that ship! What are you gonna say? Then it is time for you to say: no, it does not go on like this!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u121	I noticed that those countries are in northern Europe, but I wanted to make a distinction, and that is, I think, also important here between... Or I think it is important to distinguish between the debt positions of those who do indeed have a lot of work to do, but also to recognise that there are countries that have a much better debt position than the Netherlands. By the way, this is SGP, and Mr Eppink knows this better than anyone else, not just for the euro area. This is the case for all Member States, including Sweden and Denmark. Norway is for all kinds of reasons and very different country, but has an admirable debt position, because it actually has no or almost no debt position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u122	I'm just gonna take over the position to drive in the wind in this sector. My first job is bond dealer, so I know something about ratings and default rates. The Minister says: there is no doubt about the creditworthiness of Spain and Italy, otherwise the spreads would have increased further. Well, that's because implicitly the market assumes that the business is covered, mainly by the German friends and the other Nordic countries. Because almost all government bonds issued by Spain and Italy are going straight to the European Central Bank. It is also true that if we really left it to the market, we would see very different spreads, I dare say as an old bond farmer. Another point is that the Minister said earlier in his statement that the Netherlands would retain that triple A status. We have lost him a few times in the past, 2013, 2015... and rating agencies also do not work so that they say: it's the best of the sausage. No, it's purely the chance of default and any damage. So ratings... even the United States don't have a triple A anymore. But I think that, and I am curious to know what the Minister thinks about this, that if we left the state loans from Spain, Italy and Greece to the market, the Minister would be going back on the spreads that would then increase to a little more financial and economic value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u123	The information density was high. I'm just gonna get a few things out of it. I agree with Mr Ephraim that these spreads would look completely different, but the European Central Bank would not be there. I think he agrees with me that although the ECB was there during the previous crisis, the spreads were considerably larger. So it is true that there was confidence in the whole system, which we are part of. I also agree with what he says about the rating agencies and the United States. But, of course, there is an absolute and a relative logic in that. If you're looking for bonds and you want to put a part of your portfolio in bonds that Mr Ephraim will immediately recognize, then you'll prefer to put them in what Mr Ephraim calls "the best of the sausage." This certainly also plays a role in the rating, see also how triple A countries are now in place and have been in front of it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u124	At the beginning of the previous crisis, these spreads were indeed large, because they were real at that time...Sorry, I have to put it correctly: because it was then taken into account that the euro area would fall apart. Now, in fact, the bail-out clause is a little overboard, the markets implicitly assume that there is just a bail-out and in fact we have gone a long way on that road with the RRF and all the other facilities. I wonder what the Minister thinks about that. We have often crossed swords, even in highly satisfactory ECOFIN debates, so he knows my views and I will not repeat them. But it is really a different situation than at the beginning of the previous crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u125	Sure. We really agree on that. We also agree that, in general, things have been priced in the market. By the way, my experience is that you have to say from those markets anyway: it is often in Dutch well in the ballpark, but it is not a point landing. That's one. Two. Those markets have shown in the past that there are very significant shifts when there is new information or new concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u126	I recognize a lot of what has been said, but from Volt we prefer to see other solutions. One of the things many economists agree on is that economic growth is much more important to steer, because the faster the economy grows, the smaller the size of the mountain of debt becomes relative. So you'd say problem solved. However, since the introduction of the euro, this has been left behind in the euro area. You can say that again. My question to the Minister is therefore to be on time to redefine the SGP, because that is also the advice of the Council of State. That would be Volt's idea, instead of looking at the sovereign debt and the deficit. Let us also look together at how we can better steer that the whole euro area continues to grow well, green and robust in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u127	I very much agree with that. That is exactly what I have repeatedly argued here. I hope that Mrs Gündoğan will recognize this from the committee debates that we have often had with each other. I think sound public finances are very important, but I have always seen them as a function of this robust, robust economy, which must grow and green up. I agree with her very much. We are now entering the second chapter of my speech anyway. One of the things you do have to do there is the rather complicated task of distinguishing between consumption and investment. We all want to do that, but in practice it is not so easy to make that distinction very clear. In fact, I expect that if I asked the Members of your Chamber here, they would describe many things as consumption that others say is an investment in society, or an investment in people. I will spare you what kind of dialogue we once had in the Council of Ministers about the second dessert in prisons. Was that a consumption or an investment? I won't mention who said what. People all look nervous about it. I won't tell you who the sender of this contribution was. In any case, that distinction is not so easy to make. The second thing that is not so easy is to invest it again with budgetary rules. I am not intellectually opposed to further thinking about that, and I find that quite interesting. I would point out, however, that there too the road with good intentions may lead to a place where we do not want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u128	The Council of State made it very clear: be there in time from the Netherlands. That is precisely what my question is about. What's going to be the outcome is hard to say, especially with so many people. But it's important to be there in time. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u129	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u130	That.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u131	That, exactly. I fully agree with her on this point, because I believe that it is up to us to play a leading role in this. Once again, I will always mention the various elements that I have brought into this discussion. That's what we do, officially. I would like to point out that this is not necessarily an easy debate. That's not only because you can best agree intellectually, but then you end up in all kinds of swamps with the question of how to do it. See the discussion on investment and consumption. This also means that I find it intellectually interesting, but in practice I am a lot more reluctant in it. Then you also have the difficulty of the treaty, because there are just a number of things in the treaty. I'm sure you won't change it overnight. That is certainly not possible if not everyone agrees wholeheartedly on that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heinen asked a few questions that follow on from this. He asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u132	Before proceeding, there is another question from Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u133	It is about the European Union. I have just re-examined the government agreement of this outgoing cabinet. It simply states quite clearly that no further steps would be taken within the framework of the transfer union. It is of course a good thing that the cabinet recognizes that we are in a transfer union, so that money is being transferred from Northern Europe to Southern Europe, but no further steps are being taken. What is this Restoration Fund in the eyes of this outgoing minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u134	It may have been a bit late, but may I say that I appreciate Mr Van Dijck's reading of the coalition agreement!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u135	Just now!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u136	Just now. That's very much appreciated. I have taken his little enthusiasm for the European Union and the ERF to my mind before. One of his favourite questions, which he has repeatedly put to me, is whether or not we are in a transfer union and whether or not I can say yes or no. He knows my answer to that. To this I say that, indeed, there have been many different trends for elements in the European Union for a long time. What we wanted to say at the same time, what the creators of the previous coalition agreement wanted to express, is that we did not want to launch all kinds of structural new financial flows. That's the logic behind what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u137	Now the structural money flow is coming around the corner, but the Recovery Fund simply means that Italy will receive 200 billion from the European Union. The PVV has always said: why should Italy receive 200 billion, of which 70 billion is a gift? Italy itself can go to the capital market for zero percent. What's the problem? We must now borrow on the capital market in order to give Italy a gift of billions. Why does Italy deserve that from this finance minister... he doesn't have a dime left for those people who are now in the cold and can't pay their gas bills, but he does have billions left for the Italians. They're getting billions from this minister now. And then he says, "We're not in a transfer union." But while he's saying that, he's transferring billions to Italy. That's not right, is it? You'd rather transfer that money to the people here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u138	I just said a few things about the gas bill. There my summary would be a different one from that of Mr Van Dijck. I suppose he actually agrees with me. Turning to the ERF, it is well known that the PVV has said not to agree to this. That came through extensively in the debate with the Prime Minister about a year ago. It is also the case that a Chamber of Commerce has said: we think it is, all things considered and given the circumstances, given the element of reform, given the element of investment, in the long-term interest of the Netherlands. So we're in on it. We've had that debate with each other. I recognize the opinion of the PVV Group, as summarised here. I heard something outside the microphone, Mr. Chairman, but I don't understand. That's always a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u139	He agreed with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u140	He agreed with me again? That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u141	No, that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u142	Mr. Chairman. I was referring to Mr Heinen's question on green investments. Mr Snels also had a question about this. He asked if we couldn't make exceptions for these green investments. Perhaps in line with what I have just said to Mrs Gündoğan, this is really primarily up to the next cabinet. It's only relatively relevant what I have left of it. What I find complicated with these green investments is actually a continuation of the discussion that we had just had about consumption and investment... is that the risks of creative accounting and greenwashing, further increasing complexity and ultimately higher debt are all lurking. Am I against it? Am I absolutely against it? If you can decorate it very precisely and define it all very well, then I am not necessarily opposed to it intellectually. However, I see practically great challenges, let me put it this way. But maybe there's a way to figure it out. It also reminds us of the debate we have of course had here on the greenwashing that we feared in the case of green government bonds. At least we have said about this in the Netherlands: they must be dark green, otherwise you will have a very ugly discussion right away. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked what the government thought of the SP's alternative budget. I would like to congratulate him very much for the fact that the SP Group has made a counter-budget at all and that it has also been submitted to the CPB. A few days ago, I got a neat book from the Planning Bureau. I thought, "What good is that?" That was the counter-budget of the SP, so it was fully calculated. I would like to congratulate Mr Alkaya on the fact that all the expenditure in it is covered. Now I am going to disappoint Mr Alkaya but not surprise him, because at the same time the cover is not the cover that the cabinet had in mind. I say it a little euphemistic, but the cabinet opts for a different distribution of the burden between citizens and businesses. Companies will already have a burden increase of 3.5 billion in the base path next year. A total increase of 13 billion, of which 14 billion increases for businesses and 1 billion reduces the burden on citizens, does not seem sensible to the cabinet. That would be my appreciation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hammelburg asked for consumption and investment. I've just said a few things about that. He also asked if the study group could send an addendum on this. In the first place, he will recognize that it is up to a next cabinet to consider what it thinks of the study group and the budgetary rules as this cabinet has had. There is quite a long line to be drawn between governments of different signatures where the budgetary rules have not exactly but broadly remained the same, but it is, of course, up to the forming parties to find some of them. Mr Hammelburg and I agree, I think, that it is wise for the Study Group on Budgets to recommend that a separate ceiling be used to move more flexibly with investment. I am therefore a bit in dubio about whether an addendum should be made to that. Moreover, that study group is not my responsibility. If they knew themselves completely inspired by this debate, they could take it back. My dark brown suspicion is that they think they've done their job. Mr Heinen asked what possibilities I see for a recovery and transition fund. I see that in the sense of the European RRF. I don't think there's any need for an additional transition fund. Interestingly, the economy is turning like a tiering machine because of all our investments over the past period. There are precisely concerns about inflation; we were just talking about it. What our economy doesn't need right now is an additional stimulus from the government. That does not alter the fact that all kinds of structural things have to be tackled. Think about the labour market. Think of all kinds of adjacent files. Mrs Van Dijk asked for a reflection on Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. Those laws are leading the cabinet. The cabinet is constantly in conversation with the fellow governments. Sometimes there is also uncertainty about the financial figures. Think, for example, of child care. We have come to a committee of wise men in consultation with the congregations. The cabinet has implemented the opinion of that committee in its entirety. Then there are the reports from the ROB and the Council of State. They contain some far-reaching proposals. The Council of State appoints to be opposed to arbitration and advocates that the ROB be given a stronger role. Uh, sorry, it's against that. The ROB advocates a stronger role for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think that is understandable in itself, but I really think that is the case with a subsequent cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u143	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u144	What really mattered to me is whether you believe that the rules as agreed are implemented in this way and are therefore verifiable for us as a Chamber. I have been paying close attention to this in the past six months, but I have found it difficult to find a consistent line in it every time. And I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u145	I understand that, but the total messing-up of the system is not helpful, not for municipalities, nor for the Empire. However, I say with great restraint, because I am not going to play this role, that I think, probably with Mrs Van Dijk, that that really needs to be looked at at the negotiating table where a next coalition is being forged. Several aspects of the coin need to be highlighted. On the one hand, the government has made very substantial investments, for example in youth care, the scaling-up discount and a number of other issues. The other side is that we all speak to aldermen who say that the problems in their congregation are great. The third is the question of how to do that in the system. I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u146	I'm not sure I've heard it right. You therefore agree that the existing rules should perhaps be tightened up and that we should look at them consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u147	Honestly, I'd like to look at the whole palette. I think that this should also partly be done in conjunction with municipalities, because I have noticed this whole cabinet period how often, not so much for me but for the Minister of State and others, the dialogue with the municipalities was difficult. Municipalities have often pointed out that they were faced with many bottlenecks, and that at the same time there were not enough good agreements on parts. Take, for example, child care. As a member of the cabinet, I was also in favour of making a very substantial extra investment in it, but you will not escape from making very good new arrangements in my view either. 'Cause what do you see in social services? No country serves as many children in child care as the Netherlands. The cost has risen dramatically and the tragedy is that children who need this most often do not get their turn. There is therefore a real challenge for a new cabinet, but there is also a challenge for the municipalities. Besides money, you're probably gonna need new appointments for that. I think you should do that more broadly: you should not only do that for the youth care sector, but you should look more broadly at how to proceed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u148	While we are at the Municipal Fund, I had the impression that the Minister of Finance was not going to answer the question I asked yesterday about the step-on-step approach. There is an additional 2 billion on the basis of Mrs Hermans' motion, supported by the whole Chamber. This is where the cabinet has chosen to set up one-sided arrangements for the'stairs', which we do not have in agreement with the municipalities. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u149	I'll come back to that in a minute. Then I can also mention the various amounts. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heinen's question on the mountain of European debt has been addressed in the various interruptions. Mr. Chairman. I also understood Mr Stoffer's question about budgetary rules and financial soundness and I think I have answered it. Mr Stoffer also asked what I think about bringing public debt back to a maximum of 40% of GDP. Of course, I consider prudent budgetary policy to be very important, but we have never made the choice of anchor very consciously in the past. So we have never said: we have a certain goal and we are going to go there, even though interest rates do make a lot of difference for the question of what type of interest charges you really have a lot of burden in your budget and what less. Mr Stoffer has asked me this question more often, even with the AFB, but my answer has not changed recently. Mr Heinen asked whether it was true that the economy is growing faster than defence expenditure. He wonders whether we should not let this expenditure go hand in hand with the development of GDP. It is true that the economy is expected to grow in the coming years. It is also true that defence expenditure is growing, but if you look at all this as a percentage of GDP, he is right that I think it will save 0.1 percentage points. I see him smiling, so he probably figured it out first and then asked the question, what I appreciate. I'll just point out that this cabinet has invested a lot of extra money in the Defense Department. But if you then place that in the light of the agreements that have been made within NATO, then we are one of the countries that is far from complying with them. A new cabinet really has to consider that. Mr Snels asked for a combatable order. There are several pathways to improve that financial system. I'll be back in the Chamber later this year. With regard to broad prosperity, the cabinet believes that choices can be made, inter alia, in the coalition agreement. In the Millions note, I think we've done more every year. In the last Millions note we reported on that again. I have to ask myself what the added value of a second operation is in addition to all these running routes. Honestly, I'm not convinced of that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u150	For example, the Minister and I and Mr Sneller have done a number of these paths together: Understanding Quality, for example, but also the Monitor Brede Prosperity and the benefit-burden system. The Council of State's observation is that they are all important projects, but they have not been done in full. It is also all projects that tend to run away again. That was why the Council of State recommended: think about such a second Operation Comptable Order in which we can look at all these topics in full. The cabinet could take the lead in this, but in consultation with the Chamber and also the General Court. I find that an interesting suggestion. I find it a little too easy to put aside such advice from a High College State, but I also understand that the Minister finds it a problem to say now 'we are going to do so'. Would the Minister then be prepared to answer the specific question: sorry, President, for the long run, on the basis of the experience we have gained together over the past four years with Understanding on Quality, Broad Prosperity and the Benefit-Test Scheme, and on the basis of the advice of the Council of State, and perhaps also in the run-up to the review of the Compatability Act, to give a more detailed account of what the pluses and the lovers are, what we can and what we can not do and what is important for the coming years, so that we as a Chamber can be taken into account a little more? Because it is important, but it lingers between Chamber, Cabinet and Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u151	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the next question. Mr Grinwis asked about the budget anchors. I think I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u152	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u153	Thank you for this commitment, but it is nice to know a little more about what that commitment means and when we can expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u154	There was so much beauty in the question decided... As I understand the question, Mr Snels is actually asking whether, in the light of what I have just said,... I'm not putting it aside, I'm making some motivated comments. I'm gonna give you a motivation why I don't think it's the right solution. As I understand Mr Snels, his question is: can the cabinet once again explain the arguments in each of these parts? Then again you are talking about the Advisory Committee on Reporting System, about how we deal with broad prosperity, about the assessment of the Compliance Act. Can we sweep that all over again and show what that does and what the pros and cons are of besides a second Operation Comptable Order? That's how I understood his question. I could say yes to that. Given the mountain I have left in front of me, chairman, I thought: let me not make it any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u155	And when will the Minister be able to come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u156	Yes, chairman, that's a job that'll take a couple of weeks, so that's gonna be really good after the fall recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u157	As far as I'm concerned, the Minister can take more time for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u158	Look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u159	This also has a relationship with the way in which, for example, the coalition agreement is designed and whether or not broad welfare goals play a role in this. I would appreciate it if the Minister would take some time to think about it. That is also an incentive to do it carefully. A very logical moment to resume the discussion is around Accountability Day. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has a little more time, but that is an incentive to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u160	We always do. I won't stretch it until after the autumn recess 2022, I'll make sure it's roomy for Accountability Day at the Chamber. I think that is an excellent suggestion. Mr Snels also asked about the OCW budget and the effects of what he called "previously committed cuts." My observation is that the cabinet has invested a great deal more in education, both structural and occasional. By the way, I agree with Snels, Hammelburg, Nijboer and others who say that there are still major challenges in education, especially when you look at the quality and scores that are achieved in primary and also in secondary education. So there is still a great deal of work to be done. Just, I don't think it's helpful if I'm going to articulate what I think exactly. I know about the different members and I know about the common denominator, but that really seems to me to be the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u161	Just for fun, actually about the last block. I'm not allowed to use that word either, but that's the first time I've done that. Does the Minister see money the government spends on education as an investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u162	Then you will probably end up in a discussion: that is true for some of the money and not for some of the money. There are all kinds of studies that show that a lot of money invested in education is sensible money, given what that brings in social returns. Unfortunately, it is not the case that every additional or marginal euro you add to it has the same social return. It's not like that. I have the dubious habit of always cutting and storing all kinds of articles from newspapers and magazines. I remember once, I think fifteen years ago, cutting a piece from The Economist about the education system in England. Its budget has tripled over a period of about fifteen years, with no effect on the quality of education in Britain. That effect was totally "flat," according to The Economist. It is therefore not the case that every investment produces immediate returns in social terms. You're gonna have to see what works and what doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u163	I understand. It depends on how you invest it in education. That's more about how than the question "or." Does the Minister at least agree with me? Because in England's example, the money was just spent wrongly, but if you spend the money properly, is it an investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u164	Yes, but with all appreciation: that has a relatively high content of "a truth like a cow."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u165	I would like to fill that in because I have expressed great concern about the 8.5 billion. The PvdA is a strong supporter of investing a lot in education. There is also a huge problem there. I acknowledge that with the cabinet and also with D66, but I have serious concerns about the 8.5 billion. As the CPB says, you can't get that published. Now when you talk to teachers and school directors in schools, you hear everyone's making a plan and hiring consultants, but nobody solves the shortage of teachers. No one knows what he's gonna be like in five years. That really is a huge problem. So I think it is actually a waste of money in this way, when I would have preferred the cabinet to have said: we are doing less, 2 billion structurally, and we have a plan to tackle the inequality of opportunity and the lack of teachers and to improve the scores in reading and language skills. Why wasn't that chosen? I also think it is a task of the Minister of Finance to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u166	Yes, of course Mr Nijboer may address me to that. Let me say a few things about that. On the first, Mr Nijboer and I really agree: you have to spend money wisely or you should not spend it. I understand that in the Ministry of Finance, but of course primarily at the Ministry of Education, given the size of the amount and the short time in which you spend this extra, the expensive duty is to ensure that it is spent wisely. As far as I am concerned, the inspiration for doing this investment was quite logical. In January and February of this year, there were great concerns, including in this Chamber, that corona would cause very severe educational disadvantages for all kinds of pupils in the Netherlands, but especially for those who are already vulnerable, who do not have parents sitting at home reading and who do not have parents helping them with homework. From that inspiration, that's what happened. I still think that's wise. I suspect, by the way, that this concern about this delay at the time was somewhat greater than it is at the moment. That is in fact in line with Mr Nijboer's plea. The second side is: what do you want to do in a structural sense? That is why we have taken a step forward in the Political Reviews. That does not mean that that is the end of the song, but I think that is up to another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u167	We both share that inspiration, but we both know the saying "The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u169	That is, of course, a bit of the misery of this. Everyone thinks this is a big problem, but it's not solved if you throw 8.5 billion at it. That's a little... well, not a little. That's very much the concern I'm putting here. I understand that with corona there is some extra money for tutoring and schools and stuff, but I would have much preferred that just 2 billion, 1.5 billion or 2.5 billion had been spent structurally well with a good plan, which added up. That would have lifted Dutch education. I would have liked that much better than spending 8,5 billion on all these agencies and forcing the schools all to plan, even though they are already holding hands to catch up with the educational disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u170	A few things. I understand this very well, and I also understand the political point made by Mr Nijboer. Let me promise him that we will ensure that we continue to follow this issue. I assume the Minister of Education agrees with that. We all agree you shouldn't spend it if you can't spend it wisely. I would also like to suggest that all this money goes to offices. The idea is to help students. The Ministry of Education has really been working hard on that. But I think Mr Nijboer's idea of following very closely whether the money also ends up in the place where it belongs is very good. Let me promise him that. I am making this commitment on behalf of or on behalf of the Ministers for Education. That's one. Two. I understand very well what Mr Nijboer is saying about the structural side of the problem. But it has already thought at the time of the missionary cabinet: that is not up to us. At the time, the problem of the delays in the horns was perceived as a very serious problem, supported by a broad majority in the Chamber. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u171	This afternoon was the technical briefing with the PO-Council and the VO-Council. There was a round table last week. Among other things, there was the AOb. They consistently say and repeat that a 10-year delta plan is needed to tackle the shortage of teachers and learning disadvantages, particularly in the language field. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has also received the signals we are given as spokesmen of education and whether he can take the serious recommendations to heart? Can he and the Minister of Education see if we can make a delta plan for this that has a long-term vision and breath to solve the major problems in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u172	In any case, I very much agree with everyone who says that education was a key is and remains a good one and in many cases also a better future for the next generation. I couldn't agree more. I'm not just saying that because my grandparents were both working in education. I also know of them how much it matters in people's lives if they receive good education. I also very much agree that there are all kinds of components in it that we need to look at, because the scores in education go in the wrong direction despite all kinds of efforts by all kinds of people. They're going downstairs. That is where real work needs to be done. But now I come back to the last part of the injury period, because at the moment you do so either with the Ministers of Education or with me. This might be more for a next cabinet after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u173	I hear what the Minister says. I get it, too, mostly. But I share Mr Nijboer's concern. We'd be better off half the time than wandering all over. We're going to spend a lot of money now, rushed, while the whole sector is actually saying that this calls for a long-term breath. I was just at the technical briefing myself. The colleague of the CDA was also there as was that of the VVD and D66 and many other parties. Everyone agrees that we need to do this better. I believe that we should depoliticise this and try to work together to find a better way to deal with it in the longer term. So I'm not so much concerned with missionary status. I totally get that. I am particularly concerned that we should try to take this money and possibly more money smarter, because it is not going well in our education, and that is just bad for our children. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u174	Thank you. Depoliticisation is sometimes a fine ambition. Some, for example Mr Nijboer, will argue that you need to politicise a lot on many different issues. So I will be careful what I say about that. With regard to what Mrs Gündoğan said at the beginning, I would like to say that I think we should do one thing and not leave the other. Of course, this pontifical should be on the table when discussing the composition of a new cabinet which is now being held. That's one. Two. What we should not fail to do is to see whether we keep the impression that the money is indeed a very substantial amount for a relatively short period of time; that is why I also made that commitment to Mr Nijboer.... is being spent wisely and helps what it was intended to do, namely to catch up with particularly vulnerable young people. Because they need that money the most. They suffered an extra blow and additional delay because of corona and that was what this was meant for. Because that's what it was meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u175	Perhaps then we can agree that there will be some kind of reporting, so we can see if this money does reach the right places. Then there is no need to fall over each other in the Chamber afterwards. I'm just really looking: how are we going to handle this in a sensible way, so that this is really going to benefit education and improve education? I think that's being shared Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u176	That is how I understood my own commitment to Mr Nijboer. I would, however, like to leave it to the Minister of Education to decide on how this is to be done in concrete terms with reports and reports, otherwise I will really be in his policy area in a way that is not workable in practice. So I will leave that to him, but I will also have this particular point taken into account when the motion is coloured. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heinen asked if it was true that 4 billion is still needed to get the armed forces at European level. He must have counted on that, too. Well, I have here exactly what investments we are making, but I am sure that Mr Heinen has that information as well. I also have what the Hermans motion is all about. Finally, however, I can confirm that this amounts to 4 billion. Mrs Van Dijk asked whether the Chamber was sufficiently informed about the social and health expenditure financed by the contributions. She would like the commitment that this will be included in the Court of Justice Act. My observation is that the Chamber is really well informed about this. Money for care is reported in a section of the draft budget of the Ministry of Health, namely the Financial Image. The contribution-financed social security expenditure shall be reported in the budget products included in the articles themselves. In addition, a so-called deepening chapter can be found on both subjects at Rijksfinanciën.nl. Mr President, I am still very much in the second part of my speech. Then there is a larger point, which Mrs Van Dijk asked for, but also Mr Snels and Mr Omtzigt: bringing the Millions note to spring. That's an exciting idea. I think we should acknowledge that there are pluses and minuses to that. Let me say something about that, and then I'm going to come up with a proposal. This isn't a new idea. It's been around a lot. There really is a certain logic in it. It could also help you to better join the European process. But it also has repercussions, because it means that you are going to set the budget even further in advance. I am not sure that we will all be able to suppress the tendency to walk into the engine room in the last few months of the year. You thus deprive yourself of the opportunity to do purchasing power repairs in August, for example. You will also face another type of dilemma: do you or do you not think that the opening of the parliamentary year involves that the King, on behalf of the cabinet, on behalf of the government, will shed light on the budget for the following year? I hear someone saying that this could happen in spring. I'm not saying that's impossible. The history of Prinsjesdag is that that day was held at all times earlier in the year. By the way, you can see that they decline in the year. I think it was December once. After that it was November, then October and today it is September. If you'd like to change Prince's Day, that's what I'm saying, you have to change the Constitution. I seem to remember that from a long time ago. I believe that the third Tuesday of September is in the Constitution, but I say this with some caution. I'm sure the chairman knows this better than I do. No, says Mr Omtzigt. In any case, the law states that the cabinet has to do so on the third Tuesday. So there's still a lot to it. My proposal to Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Snels and Mr Omtzigt would be as follows. At the beginning of 2022, I would like to come back to the pluses and minuses of keeping it that way, because there are also disadvantages, and also advantages, and of bringing it forward. I would actually like to work out a few variants, because you can also imagine that your parts still cut again. You must avoid having a kind of permanent budget negotiation throughout the year, because that is not only difficult for the Minister of Finance, but also for colleagues in the Cabinet and for the Chamber. So you also need to reduce the number of decision-making moments. But short and well, Chairman: a letter with variants and the pluses and minuses of all options. That is what I would like to promise the Chamber and these three Members in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u177	Variants are very beautiful, but I would also like a proposal from the government. Because, of course, this is a specific problem that we have had here for ten years, and this problem is most acute in the area of finance, namely the Tax Plan. For ten years now, motions have been tabled for which we are supposed to have a tax bill somewhere in May or June, in which the real fundamental changes are taking place, and then we have a debate in September or October in which tariffs, for example, can be fixed on energy taxation - because of course no one would have thought of that in April. As far as I am concerned, that must be part of any proposal. And so I ask not only to put things on paper as options, but also to come up with a proposal as a government. And I just shook no, because the Constitution states that Prince's Day must be held no later than the third Tuesday of September. So you can keep it on January 1st, if you feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u178	The latter seems a brilliant proposal! But no, it's been about 25 years since I've been following a state law college, but at least that's half stuck. And I would like to comment on Mr Omtzigt's variant and express a preference in it. I would like to point out that this is really something that affects the responsibilities of both the cabinet and the House of Representatives. Because the House of Representatives also has things to win and lose in each of the options. So this is something that the government has something to find, but so is the Chamber itself. And I think I can say what I consider to be the preferred variant, but I would like to point out that there are positives and minuses for the Chamber in each of those variants, and that the Chamber itself will therefore have to make an assessment of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u179	I'm aware of that. But on that one point, the Chamber has been quite clear and quite repeatedly, and that is on that Tax Plan. It is often said: the amendment to the Tax Act proposed by the Chamber is impossible, because if you vote on it in November, the Tax Administration will not be able to adapt ICT on 1 January. And that's right, that makes sense. Also know in advance that you can talk about it quietly, and not in the autumn, where there is already a lot of stress on the agenda of the Chamber because we cannot organise another debate anymore; this is also our main task... So I would at least like to ask the government: take it with you, and get ready for next year, perhaps the Secretary of State can also say that we will get another serious tax bill, in which some of the plans that the new government will undoubtedly present will be worked out. Whether you're sitting there or not, it just needs to happen. 'Cause if you change fees at the last minute, it's gonna go wrong. And if you change taxes at the last minute, it just goes wrong. So take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u180	I'd love to. We'll take that aspect with us. The only thing I keep repeating is that, not because I don't want to, or because I don't see the benefits of it too, it is that, in making the transition as well as in where you come from during the transition, there are also disadvantages, including with regard to the Tax Plan. But I'm gonna put all that on paper. I am going to follow Mr Omtzig's proposal on specific taxation. So I'll take that with me in all the variants. I will also indicate what the cabinet, considering everything, has a preference in terms of variant. And then we just have to have the debate on that, I think somewhere in the first quarter of next year. I think that is a good proposal. I must admit that I am not just taking Mr Omtzigt's remarks, because I see Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Snels as well. All the comments that are still being made in this debate on this subject, I am going to get involved, even if it is just to ensure that we take all those aspects of this dilemma with us. Because it is a dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u181	This was also about next year. Because this year's Tax Plan is, in itself, reasonably poor in policy. Of all the things that we have seen, the cabinet has been rather decommissioned in the sense that it is a lot less thick than in recent years. But such a first year is often quite a policy year, because then the new cabinet team finds, even if it is in the same composition, that the whole world has to change. Well, we're gonna find out. My appeal here is: do everyone a favor, both the Tax Administration and MPs, as well as the society that can get used to it for longer, and make sure that you deal with as much of that legislation as possible that you want to enter into on 1 January 2023 here in June 2022. If you do that in November 2022 and if you have a implementation problem on January 1, 2023, you could have seen that coming. If you decide that only in March or April, that legislation can never be completed by June. As Members of Parliament, we believe that legislation is written in two days, but the officials know better. They've been working on that for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u182	Yes, and the last thing Mr Omtzigt says is exactly my hesitation about the proposal he is making. In itself, my question with things is always: can't it go faster? Mr Omtzigt will recognize that. At the same time, the reality is that it often takes two years to get legislation through the States-General at all, even if it is things that we all think are in a hurry. This also lies largely in the preliminaries of good lawmaking, careful implementation tests and, of course, consultation of the Council of State and often of other organisations. Given where the missionary cabinet is now, given where the formation is now, given that we arrived at the beginning of October... normally this is not for me, but for the next cabinet. But the idea that they are going to manage not only to have a view on this but also to serve up the bulk of the legislation they want to come with in the first or second quarter... that seems to me to be a hell of a job. My assessment is "but again, that's up to the next cabinet that a next cabinet can't make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u183	As a GroenLinkser, I'm quite radical, but we're really taking revolutionary steps here. It will be a poor Prinsjesdag and that is also beautiful, for all kinds of reasons. I do like it... I agree with Mr. Omtzigt about the Tax Plan. We have been discussing this for so long that it goes to spring, not only in terms of an integrated decision-making process, but also in terms of better legislation. I think we all share that. There are indeed dilemmas in the budgets. The question is how do you see that in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u185	When will the House finally vote on the budget? You can take more time for that. I'd recommend that, I guess. But I do believe that in these particular dilemmas, the pluses, the loves and the variants, the Chamber must be called upon to do so. This is about the House's budget right. So I like that the cabinet takes the lead in mapping variants, but ultimately the Chamber is about budget law. The Chamber should be able to discuss this in any way, President-in-Office. Maybe it's one another, and then it's the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u186	But I think that is an appeal from Mr Snels to the Chamber and not to my address. By the way, I would have made that observation myself, because it is really up to the Chamber. It's not just a cabinet trick. For the sake of completeness and again, I think you can really bring forward some of those discussions, but I would like to point out the beginning of this debate, in which we talked about the burden decision-making and new insights that emerged after the August decision-making, which is why we are actually saying: we need a third deadline in the AFB. We must realise that all kinds of politicians of all kinds will want to involve purchasing power figures and other developments in the decision-making process for the coming year at a relatively late stage in the year. So you're not done, though you might hope so, if you had a good debate on that in the spring. That is all I want to say, also given Mr Snels' call for rather revolutionary plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u187	There is talk of revolutionary plans. I don't know if they're revolutionary. I'm still too short here for that. I just want to sort it out in a practical way, to be able to do our Chamberwork well with each other. The tax plan has already been discussed. I think you have raised a number of objections, but you have already indicated a little bit of the solution. So I am assuming very nice proposals on which we can have a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u188	Fantastic. Thank you to Mrs Van Dijk. All I have to think about is this statement from Cuba at the time: when the unusual becomes the daily, there is a revolution going on. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Stoffer. He asked about the table of contents in the area of infrastructure. That's also one in the evergreens category. I would like to emphasise that our infrastructure is in good condition and well maintained. 3.6 billion will be available in 2022. At the same time, there are serious concerns about the adequacy of the budget for the structural table of contents. Mr Stoffer will have seen that too, because of course he reads about baby boom bridges and that kind of article in newspapers. So I get his question very well. The Minister of IenW is working on monitoring external audits and further mapping in accordance with Mr Stoffer's motion. It may, in the end, be inevitable, with caution, to make choices if the structural budget is inadequate. With Mr Stoffer, of course, I hope that this will not be necessary and that without that budget it will be fine, but I cannot rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u189	I'm not just reading that. I sacrificed half my life to maintenance of bridges, roads, viaducts and so on. Yes, this is a serious matter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u190	There is no misunderstanding between Mr Stoffer and me about this being a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u191	That will do well; then we have already put it right. There are reports where it is really very clear that there is 1 billion deficit. I quoted the example of the Haringvliet Bridge. There's just a lot left to follow. Many bridges in the Netherlands have a technical life that is just running out. Let me give you an example. I estimate that the minister often goes to The Hague via Utrecht. Well, if it goes on like this, then at the Galecopper Bridge where it always has to go over and where that Rijkswaterstaat building is, the same thing happens if we don't watch out, that's my prediction. So my strong appeal is: take this seriously. It is important to keep driving but it is also important to keep the economy in the Netherlands sharp. So I would like a more precise answer from the Minister. That's all I care about. And so it's not like we're gonna look at it. We're not gonna be okay if we don't do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u192	I am intimidated by everything that Mr Stoffer has said. The Secretary of State is about these bridges and I am not, but I do not think that the route of directors to The Hague should depend on what we should and should not invest in. I suspect that Mr Stoffer fully agrees with me. I know that Mr Stoffer is not only asking for it but also knows a lot about it, much more than I do. I can tell him that extremely serious work is being done on the follow-up to his own motion. His appeal to the cabinet was: not only map out the Haringvliet Bridge, but also a number of other bridges that may be at the end of their life cycle or that are in any case in need of major overhaul and look very seriously at them, and then look into what investment is needed for them and how they endure with the structural budget. I think that is a very fair question from Mr Stoffer, who we are also carrying out con amore. Only the Minister of IenW, the outgoing and new Minister of IenW, is working on this. So I find it difficult to interrupt that work now and say: do something else. Because I think she's doing exactly what Mr Stoffer asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u193	My problem in this case is not with the Minister of IenW, but it has to go to the Minister of Finance to see if this will be resolved in the near future. So my appeal to the minster of Finance and perhaps also to the negotiator at the table later is: don't forget this, pick this up, otherwise we will stand still and farmers in the Netherlands will also be extremely hard back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u194	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have had Mr Stoffer's question on budgetary rules. He had another question about borrowing for all kinds of big plans. There were more parties asking about the things that have appeared in the media about the formation. In my role as one of those present, I cannot respond to that. I can at most say that Nijboer and others and I think Stoffer have rightly pointed out that if you were to prepare a large pot of occasional money and then spend it semi-structuralally over a longer period of years, this would be just as much on the debt as another way of shaping it. So the romantic idea that you solve it all by putting aside a pot of money once and then the problem is gone, I'd say: if only. Eventually you see it all back in debt and eventually you have to want to spend it all effectively. That doesn't mean that I'm necessarily against such a type of solution for partial problems, but it's not a panacea. Mr Stoffer asked about the cost of care. Concrete options have been developed in Healthcare Choices in Map, in the report Broad societal reviews and in the redirection list of the Ministry of Finance. An interdepartmental policy study, an ibo, is also about to be launched to identify policy options aimed at sustainable care for the elderly. In my opinion, one of the great challenges ahead of us is to ensure that care for everyone, regardless of what someone deserves, remains available. We must ensure that we keep the care, which in the Netherlands, certainly in the cure, is of extremely high quality, at the same level or at an even higher quality level. But we do have to discuss sensible concerns with each other. Part of the solution to the cost of care must also be found. Mr Eppink asked about public funds and impact assessments. Ministries carry out hundreds of evaluations annually to evaluate policy, in many cases also on the initiative of the House of Representatives. As of 2022, ministries will publish a Strategic Evaluation Agenda as part of the budget. It also contains an overview of the plans and the main studies on the effectiveness and effectiveness of policies. I have had Mrs Gündoğan's questions on investment. Mr Ephraim asked about the 20 billion from the National Growth Fund. In this context, he talked about reducing the regulatory burden on SMEs and the tax burden. That's not what it's for. We have drawn up very specific criteria for knowledge development, infrastructure and innovation. That's what the money's for. That does not alter the fact that I am touched by the issues mentioned by Mr Ephraim, but it should not be done by the growth fund route, because that is what we have agreed with the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt had a question similar to that of Mr Nijboer. He asked: Shouldn't you use the National Education Programme to some extent also for teacher grants? I would actually like to refer to the three-stage rocket we have. 1. Very carefully to see if you are spending that occasional money effectively for young people who are lagging behind. 2. The investments we have all made in General Political Reviews. 3. See what else is needed during the formation, although I am not involved in this missionary capacity. Mr Azarkan said as much as 80 billion for the corona crisis and not other social spending. My impression is different. In my opinion, the cabinet spends a large number of very sensitive and very important issues on climate, security, and on Groningen. If you look at the Spring note and what has been added, in August but also by the Chamber itself, then it is about very substantial money. This is without prejudice to the fact that a large number of these themes are not permanently addressed. I very much agree with Mr Azarkan. Mrs Gündoğan asked about structural and occasional investment in education. I've been over it, too. She also asked about the Lisbon criteria for increasing investment in R&D. Because of our national sector structure, which is less R&D-intensive, the Netherlands has an ambition of 2.5%. If you really wanted to achieve the Lisbon target, it would require an additional investment of 11 billion until 2030. One of the goals of the National Growth Fund is, of course, to be able to do much more about R&D. So we agree on the direction. Whether you should want to apply precisely those percentages, you can still discuss this with each other, even though you always have a discussion about the question: what does the government do and what does the business do? Partly because of the structure of our economy, Dutch industry invested relatively less than the government. Mr Van Houwelingen asked whether the Dutch Government had a backup plan for the re-launch of the guilder. In my view, I have already outlined what is needed, but I would like to stress once again that this scenario is totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u195	Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u196	I understand that that scenario is not on the table for you. You can find that, but we want that plan. Can we get the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u197	But the scenario is not on the table. It is not the case that we buried the guilders under the Ministry of Finance. I understand that, if you want to get rid of the euro and the European Union, it is extremely disappointing not only to have a lot of others in the Chamber but also to have a cabinet looking at it fundamentally differently. But that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u198	Well, I'm gonna make a meta comment. It's always like that. You're probably trained to give an answer around the question. It's not an answer to my question. We know there is a plan and the question is whether we can get it. That's a simple question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u199	I just answered. I have met few speakers as often in my folder as Mr Van Houwelingen. He does not always like the answers, and I understand and appreciate that from his political point of view, but I still refer him to the previous answer and to all the previous answers I have already given him. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer and Mr Omtzigt asked about the handling of budgetary rules. Let me start by saying that the first sentence is that this is a nuanced story. That's what it says here. It is true that we have deliberately deviated from the budgetary rules on a number of occasions. That is what we have done, I would add, with broad support from the Chamber, because the issues on which we have spent extra money have never really been discussed. I would also like to add that, and I hope that Mr Nijboer and Mr Omtzig recognise that the desire to finance that additional expenditure on corona but also in other areas from cuts in the same budget was not very great, is my experience. Not only did I not think it was sensible, but I did not find very many spokesmen here who said in the case of extra expenditure, whether occasional or structural,: can you simply remove it from one of the other departments to finance it? I think that we have largely complied with the budgetary rules. Mr Nijboer is right, however, that in this spring note in particular we have done a number of very substantial extra things, that Corona has opened a whole new register and that, for example, in the area of childcare allowances and the restoration of all the misery that has taken place there, we have not strictly adhered to budgetary rules, but also to subjects such as undermining and climate change. He's right about that. It is also argued in the Millions Note that it is wise to return to the regular budgetary process as soon as possible. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u200	We can simply observe that the budgetary rules have not been complied with, so that is not what my interruption is about. I was also concerned about the Minister's opinion on the amendments and motions of the Chamber. He's always incredibly strict, sometimes almost unreasonably strict. For the summer, an amendment from me was adopted in the Spring Paper, when I proposed to raise 60 million from the implementation costs IK, a sound coverage for the teacher's fair. At that time, the Chamber said: that is a sound cover. The Minister also said it was a good thing. Coverage was also good: it was an expenditure from one budget to another. The PVV makes a lot of these proposals, which I do not agree with. They say that we do not do development cooperation, that has to go elsewhere. It's quite common for the Chamber to think so. That was the point I wanted to make here. If the Minister himself so often sees exceptional situations that arise, I would ask him to understand that the Chamber sometimes thinks so, that there are sometimes reasonable arguments for using them, and that, for example, you can also cover an issue with a tax issue. I refer to an expat scheme, which I consider very little to say for myself. That'll pay for it. You can just bet that for another purpose. It's just another political choice. Then I prefer the Minister to say "I have a different political choice, but the coverage is good" than he says "the coverage is no good." That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u201	Mr Nijboer is now pushing me on extremely slippery ice. There are, of course, proposals behind this question, and he is right to do so. There are proposals for which there is no proper coverage. These could be rejected because of the lack of proper coverage. There are topics that we think differently about. I have just said this in relation to the passing on of the alternative budget of the SP, in which everything is properly covered, in which everything is neatly lined up and everything is schematically over, but the choice of principle for a very heavy burden on business is not the choice of the cabinet. Mr Nijboer is absolutely right. While I am standing on that slippery ice, I can see what ideas he still has on matters that fortunately are all covered, but perhaps not all with cover that the outgoing cabinet can bear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u202	The problem is, also with the counter-budget of the SP, that there is an excuse why you do not agree with the coverage. And so you don't like the whole story. But if the SP had taken all the expenditure that goes to the balance as cover, no matter what this minister does with the 80 billion, because he just lets the deficit and the debt rise and so had chosen that scenario, would it have been a good story, a good counter-budget? Would the minister have said, "We're gonna do that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u203	No, of course that is in my answer to Mr Nijboer. The Nijboer just indicated that you have to distinguish between two things. On the one hand, that is the lack of proper cover, something like what Mr Van Dijck is proposing here. The other variant is that you can cover it, but that coverage is politically impossible for the cabinet and not for the loosely attached parties to the outgoing cabinet. That's a distinction. I see both style figures with Mr Van Dijck. I will articulate as precisely as possible, point by point, in which of the two categories "no" it falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u204	Exactly that's the problem: whether the coverage is wrong or there is no coverage. But in either case, it's not right. That's how the cabinet constantly looks at all counter-proposals: whether the cover is not right or there is no cover. But that's not an argument. You must try to come up with arguments as to why you do not like the proposal, regardless of its coverage. The cabinet is coming up with an additional expenditure of 6.8 billion in climate expenditure for which I have not seen coverage. And if I want to use that as cover, it's not proper cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u205	I am impressed by the self-reflective capacity that I think I can detect from the interrupting microphone. I would like to emphasise one thing: it is not that I can decide and decide for myself. These are proposals that the cabinet makes and which should then be borne by the Chamber. It's as simple as that. So for each of the proposals we have made, we hope to find acceptance in the States-General. That is what we will see in the various budget debates. The same applies to all the proposals contained in the Hermans motion. Before that, there is a majority in the Chamber. There would also have been a majority in the Chamber if I had not agreed, because ultimately the Chamber is the boss in this country. By the way, I very much agreed and enjoyed the dialogue I have heard here and all kinds of sensible agreements people have made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u206	Mr. Alkaya, SP, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u207	I have a factual correction. Both the coverage in the Hermans motion and the coverage for the increase in healthcare salaries come from the counter-budget of the SP. If the cabinet disagrees with one another, the cabinet disagrees with the other. If the cabinet agrees with one another, the cabinet agrees with the other. So that explanation was not entirely correct, at least partly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u208	Well, I think I should refer to the previous answer. We are having a discussion here about what a sound coverage is. But when the Chamber decides to spend more money in the balance, whether or not it is in dialogue with the cabinet and given the budget right, it does so. It's as simple as that. Then the First Chamber has to agree, but that's how our state law works. At the same time, the Court can also choose to cover matters and agree on that coverage. Mr Alkaya is right: we have seen both style figures in the General Political Reviews. Some things are covered and others aren't. For both cases there was a very large majority of the Chamber. I myself, as a member of the outgoing cabinet, was very much in agreement with that package. Well, then we're still on the same page. I'm almost done with part two. There are a few things left, Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked if I wanted to come back explicitly to the VAT meevaller he mentioned yesterday as possible cover. First of all, higher than expected VAT revenues and ETS auction revenues are never used for other purposes. That is in line with the budgetary rules. There is not a policy effect, but a so-called endogenous effect. I hear Mr Van Dijck shouting "thank you." Sometimes I enjoy Mr Van Dijck and his eternal optimism. That is a constructive contribution to budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u209	This is quite an ironic answer after the debate with Mr Nijboer on the budgetary rules. The core of my story was, of course, that we have to compensate for the energy bills. Money should not be an obstacle to this. The cabinet comes with a letter, so we'll read it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u210	I think we're in agreement. I think Mr Snels really sees what is complicated in the system. If, for example, lower energy prices reduce VAT revenues in the future, then we will not compensate for these falling revenues with a higher energy tax. I think we're all aware of that. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more point to make. This concerned the municipalities and stairs, stairs down. In fact, I have already said this in the direction of Mrs Van Dijk, whom I do not see here anymore. I think it would be wise to take this up again and look at the formation in a broader context. We have done all kinds of things over the past year that were intended to help municipalities. This concerns the scale-up of 270 million in 2022. An additional 1.3 billion has been allocated to youth care, on top of the 300 million which had already been added to the budget. In order to pay higher healthcare salaries, 94 million extra has been allocated to municipalities. For the implementation of climate agreements, local authorities will receive 73 million in 2022. That's where all the corona fees come in. By the way, there are cases where the stairs are not followed one hundred percent. Think, for example, of the Growth Fund. My proposal would therefore be to look more broadly at the system. Do you have to go all the way down those stairs, down the stairs? I don't know, but it always leads to all kinds of dilemmas. I just think you should talk to municipalities in charge. How do you ensure they are sufficiently detailed, including in the financial sense? What kind of business can we expect back for that? What kind of agreements do you make about that and how do you deal with these kinds of discussions? So that would be my proposal. That brings me to part three: broad prosperity. I've done a lot of topics, but I've still got a lot to do. Mr Hammelburg asked whether the broad prosperity debt could be offset by GDP and whether such an indicator could be included in the policy cycle. I find that an interesting thought. It is true, of course, that some negative effects, such as on nature and climate, are lacking in GDP. That's the discussion about true cost, for which I've always felt a lot intellectually, personally. How do you ensure that in the price of something you buy everything is decided what it carries with it, in terms of human, environmental and wider? But that sum does require political choices. How do you appreciate things that aren't yet, or very difficult to express in money? I think that's one of the dilemmas. I would therefore like to continue on the path we have already taken, and to this end I would like to say that I am strongly motivated by the debates over the last four years with many groups here, but certainly with the D66 Group. We want to investigate what can be seen abroad in this field. In my view, I have answered Mr Snels' question about the ideal picture. That's the subject I've had with him before. Mr Hammelburg asked how we could better steer the broad prosperity of the policy cycle. Again, it is an extremely important issue and an increasingly politically relevant one. I think that's very good news, because I'm in favour of it myself. I really think we should go that way and go that way. It is not for nothing that we have paid extra attention to this in the Millions Note. Government policy and wider public policy aim to increase prosperity in a wide range of areas, such as climate and security. We'll report on that. But if I had to make a prediction, we're going to take a lot of steps this way for the next ten, twenty, thirty years. And that is entirely justified. Mr Van Raan asked if I agree with him that GDP should remain within the limits of the climate and above a viable minimum. I understand what he is saying, but policy is, of course, about much more than just GDP. Mr Van Raan and I are always very much in agreement on this. I myself also hate expressions such as 'the Netherlands'. No, the goal is as much happiness as possible for as many people as possible. The goal is well-being for these and future generations, and there are many aspects to that. At the same time, there is no denying that prosperity is a very important part of well-being. Just look at all the places in the world where prosperity is lacking, then see that well-being is often dramatic. Mr Van Raan's conceptual frameworks do require political choices, and I really think they need a next cabinet. If Mr Van Raan did not like the choices made by the next cabinet, I know him in such a way that he will come to the next cabinet like a hornet to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u211	You both got up at the same time, but first let me give Mr Van Raan of the Party the floor for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u212	Like a hornet, but of course also on this cabinet. Conceptually, I understand from the Minister's words. And it is! We are concerned only with the Prime Minister's statement in spring, for example, in the debate on accountability, precisely about the indicators of broad prosperity. He also said at the time: it is not sustainable at all. A number of indicators of this broad welfare monitor, especially those across the water, are in deep red. That indeed requires a fundamentally different view. What is the Minister doing now, what can he do now to ensure that the next cabinet, which we are constantly talking about, does not bring us any further trouble? So I say this given the Prime Minister's statement and not given Mr Van Raan's statement. These frameworks are not mine, because they are beautifully written by Kate Raworth, the economist who invented them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u213	One of the things I was very much in favour of and very much in favour of is the steps taken under the excellent direction, I might say, of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in the field of climate. As far as I am concerned, the package of a billion or six contains very sensible and very fundamental steps in the right direction. Mr Van Raan will say: more is needed. I don't necessarily disagree with him either, but if he asks me what I can do now, then... It's in the past, but it's quite recent, but I've been hard on it myself. I have supported the Secretary of State as much as possible, and it is also her credit that she has worked out this package and managed to reach broad political agreement on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u214	I agree with the Minister that the search he's talking about will take decades, but you can already do things to improve that search. We shall be tabling a number of motions for resolutions on this matter. The fact that more can always be done is, of course, true, but let us focus now, also because the Minister is bringing it up, on that 6.8 billion package. That doesn't contribute so little to climate change. For example, you can see that the SDE allows it to be spent on CCS and biomass. Maybe we'll continue to encourage more driving. So the image that is now being created is completely out of the question. We are going to talk about this with the Minister for Economic Affairs and it is therefore not entirely fair to talk about it now. I'm doing it now, because the Minister is bringing it up himself. I just wanted to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u215	I understand that this 6.8 billion does not make Mr Van Raan's glass half-full. That was not the expectation of the Secretary of State or of me or of the cabinet either. But I would really like to point out that this is about a number of very important steps in the field of insulation, of the SDE, of electric transport. The fact that a missionary cabinet is pulling out another 7 billion to push things in the right direction with regard to a number of sensitive choices... I am not at all concerned that I expect Mr Van Raan's praise here, but I do think that these are fundamental steps in the right direction. I'd like to keep that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u216	I would like to take away the image that is constantly being created here, as if the glass were half full and therefore we would not be satisfied. That's just not true. Even if that glass is half full, it must taste good, but what's in this glass is just cloudy water if, again, you continue to support that fossil industry in that way. But we're going to talk about that in detail, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u217	That comparison with that glass is a completely gray turned record anyway. I'm going to bury it, especially since Mr Van Raan can do much more than I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u218	There is another question from Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u219	I heard the Minister say warm words about the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I am pleased, because the last time we talked about this with the Prime Minister was the idea: this Monitor Brede Prosperity, we measure that statistically, statically actually, afterwards, but we are not going to make policy on that. So we are not going to say in advance: when it comes to health, our identity, trustworthy governance, our handling of nature, these are not elements that we are going to set a kind of goal in advance. Now he spoke warm words about that and I got the impression that the Minister wants to go a bit that way. But the meeting was with the Prime Minister, so I don't know if it's gonna fit into this mailbox if I give this to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u220	In general, the Prime Minister is perfectly capable of defending himself, but I would like to say here that we are not only speaking with one voice on state law, but my observation is also that this is important to him. That we all, Chamber and Cabinet, have become increasingly aware of the logic and urgency of this over the past four years. I've always felt something for the concept of "wide prosperity," just intellectually, because I think it's sensible. I've always been inspired, just myself, by the concept of "true cost," because there's just an intellectual logic in it. But I also have to admit that we have gone further in this direction by Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Snels, Mr Snels and others on this road. I have also heard things in the debates on Meat Day, but also at other times, often, which I thought were: yes, I think that is sensible; we are taking that with us in the Millions Note or we are going to set up another pilot for that. So my thinking has also gone further, and my assessment is that that process is also the process that the Prime Minister has been through. But I'll check him out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u221	I forgot, but thank you for reminding me again: true cost, an important concept. What I understood, but maybe I misunderstood, is that he says: I like the concept, but the problem is of course that some of those true costs are difficult to name, because they are intangibles, we need to think more about them and so on. That could be a reason why those true costs aren't further named. But of course there are enough true costs that are known. My question is therefore: is the Minister prepared, as far as he can do, to name and sort out the true cost of, for example, the fossil industry or the livestock industry? Will he also state what he thinks these intangibles can't be named? Then we have a more precise definition of the image we are talking about. So I'd like to name that part that can be appointed, because that part is there, as the Minister knows. And there are a number of things that are still unclear; we can talk about that further. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u222	That's another life-threatening question. I would like to underline two things. The first is that I feel for the understanding, because things are more than just the amount you pay for them in the supermarket or anywhere else. The production often brings with it all kinds of things or side effects, in a negative sense, but sometimes also in a positive sense. You can also articulate that making a product brings lifelong happiness for employees and employers. It doesn't contain such elements. Intellectually, I feel for it. That's one. Two. If I had to make a prediction about which way this discussion is going in the Netherlands and the world, then I think we are just shifting towards more and more "true cost"-like elements. How fast you get there, how easy that is and how you can do that wisely, even in an international playing field, are then really questions that we need to consider with each other. I suspect that Mr Van Raan and I do not agree on this immediately. Then there is my final point. I'm standing here as Demissionary Minister of Finance. If the next cabinet were inspired by Mr Van Raan's speech or by my somewhat more cautious speech, it would of course be possible to do so. Mr Van Raan does not yet look as if I have made him very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u223	Well, the glass is half full and the water is clear, so that's nice. Let's see if we can fill it up to three quarters, because I'm not actually hearing any real objections. Again, the Minister says that we are already moving towards this "true cost" approach. That's valuable. This is also valuable in the debate on broad prosperity. That movement is going on. All I'm asking the Minister is: crystallize that movement into what we're already finding, what we can already say about true cost, what's already known, and try to highlight what's not known. You can have a discussion about that. I don't really understand why he's saying yes now, but I find that difficult and I'm on slippery ice. By the way, a skater should like to get on slippery ice!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u224	I had hoped that Mr Van Raan would not bring that up!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u225	That's what I was hoping for myself, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u226	How should I put it subtlely? One of the recurring elements in the dialogue with Mr Van Raan..................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, yeah, I think there's an intellectual logic in it and the movement that's making the world is going more and more in that direction. At the same time, I have pointed out all kinds of practical objections, perhaps also with regard to the desirability, and all kinds of things that are still needed to get there. So all this remains to be decided in part in the future. I don't think it's me right now. Even for the part where I can go with Mr Van Raan, I think that is up to another cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gündoğan asked something along the lines of this, because she asked: can you include the debt of opportunity, climate debt and productivity debt in a government agreement? For the climate component, I think that's easier than for some other parts. Frankly, I don't know if you can take that with you in a next government agreement, because I really don't think we'll be there for a long time. You can already see how difficult it is, for example, to include climate costs in a specific product. I think it is up to a next cabinet to see whether or not this can be included in a new government agreement and not to me, as the outgoing Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u227	Then may I make a small suggestion? In fact, I was at a very interesting presentation of the NWO then I come back to the Lisbon objectives, which say that if they spend more money on innovation, productivity can go up, we can better tackle the climate problem and it benefits our education. So you can hit a lot of flies with one blow. It might be interesting to invite the NWO after all. Moreover, it came with the Rabobank's argument that it could benefit our economic growth. So I'd say it's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u228	Win-win.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u229	Win-win-win-win on all sides! I would like to ask the Minister if we should be more ambitious in dealing with these Lisbon objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u230	I understand this as a request to the informant, and I'm not. With all the intellectual appreciation, I can at most express the hope that the informers will hear this and take advantage of it. I can't go much further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u231	I get that. I understand there's a certain obstacle. Yet I am always impatient, because I think that this can really give our country the right push in the right direction and that is what many of us are looking for. It is a very good piece of NWO, completely economically calculated, also with the Rabobank figures. I would like to ask how it can be taken on board or explored in a certain way, instead of being an advice that we are not going to do very much with. I'd say that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u232	What I have noticed about the statements made by the informer is that he imagines that the forming parties should be willing and willing to engage in a broader dialogue with the parliamentary groups. If the Group of the European People's Party really wanted to be part of this constructive dialogue and then see room to bring it in, that would seem to me to be an excellent solution. But that's more in the category of thinking along than anything else. Other than that, I'm gonna keep the cocksucker to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u233	Last interruption, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u234	It's more of a commitment, not an interruption. Yeah, we'd love to. We like to be constructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u235	With all the hats I could put on, I appreciate that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u236	May I make the suggestion to the Minister? I find it all difficult, you know, climate debt, college debt, education debt and whatever kind of debt. Is there any way he could fly that quantitatively? Because of course it is a government agreement and also a budget agreement, and otherwise it is a bit 'feeling' and not 'facts'. I always find that a bit annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u237	I very much agree with Mr Ephraim. I also have "what kind of bridges can you build here?" in the category "what kind of bridges can you build here?" President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic I think he also wants you to make those costs quantitatively understandable. Talking about this a little qualitatively does not solve the problem, because those qualitative things cannot be appreciated. The idea is right: can you bring it in? Which brings me to the fourth part. We have said all the necessary things together about energy prices, both about the process and about content. I would like to point out once again that it is perfectly logical for the Chamber and the Cabinet to consider this, precisely because it is really a huge amount of money in the household wallet of many Dutch people. It concerns in particular the most vulnerable, but also those with a moderate income. If they receive 50% or more in their energy bills, it simply has very serious consequences. I would also like to add that we will involve the entire supply security debate and the geopolitical debate, including in the exchange of views with the Chamber. That is what I am saying to Mr Omtzigt and also to others. By the way, I would like to add that this piece is perhaps less obvious for the third term, which I look forward to. It may be more up to the Economic Affairs and Climate Ministers, just like all the questions about the gas roundabout and so on. But I think it is quite right for the Chamber to point this out. As far as I am concerned, this is where the debate on high caloric and low caloric belongs. What does it mean for business? What does it mean for civilians? And what about the strategic stock? These are very valid points, but they fit into that debate as far as I am concerned. In that debate, too, I would like to conclude with this section: we must try to make it clear to each other what the factors are which have given us this rather big problem, which we did not have in sight recently, on our plate. We also need to make it clear which elements are incidental and structural in nature. We have often had moments when the gas price suddenly became very high and quite soon then collapsed again. This was driven by the weather, driven by inflation and driven by developments on the international market. So it's not like we're looking at a structurally dramatic gas price anyway, but you can't rule it out either. So the discussion about what this causes, how we can mitigate the factors and what is structural and occasional, I would like to mention, because that is really part of this discussion for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u238	The Minister has already announced that the cabinet will come forward with proposals. I would like to draw attention to two issues. One: the people with a low or a middle income and especially the tenants who are in a drafty house and really can't help that they lack a lot of energy. They have a homeowner who doesn't isolate the house, so they've already lost a huge power load and that's still threatening to rise. Secondly, it must be substantial. I would say that at least half of that increase has to be eliminated. The motion from two weeks ago has yet to be worked out, but it is about €45, so that's a bit of a drop on a glowing plate. It's gotta be a little firm. Is the Minister prepared to accept these two matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u239	I'd like to take two things apart. I also started with my introduction: you want, of course, to help people who have little financial room for manoeuvre, people who really have a low income, people who also do not have an action perspective when it comes to their own home, because they rent that property and it is not their own, in particular. This also applies to many people with a moderate income and not only to people with the smallest incomes. Considering how little, as it is called in good Dutch, disposable income has an average Dutch family or an average Dutch individual, you are already in trouble quite quickly if your fixed expenses increase by a number of tens a month. That's just reality. We've had a discussion about that before. That is a vulnerability of Dutch households. A lot of fixed burdens go to all the things we all know. And if €40, €50, €60 or more is added, then that is no problem for some Dutch people and for other Dutch people quite acutely a big problem. We really have to relate to that. So I really want to make a commitment to that first one. With regard to the second, the measure, I agree with Mr Nijboer that there is no point in solving the problem only for a very small group, because then people will still be in trouble. At the same time, I would like to take a step in the area of measurement, also in order to be able to differentiate between different groups. I would like to include his question explicitly in the solution. I'll discuss that in the Cabinet tomorrow. Just, I don't want to try figurative sawing now, because I just don't have enough information for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u240	I think it would be wise to distinguish between groups. This is often difficult in the implementation. People with a drafty house or with a very low income... If I have to pay a few extra tens, I find that annoying, but I can do that with ease. There are a lot of people who aren't getting by right now; energy poverty is rising enormously. I therefore only encourage this distinction. I do wish to give a little direction. That's what the Financial Reviews are about. What's the order of magnitude? If it comes down to a couple of tens, that doesn't help if you have a problem of €500 or €600. I'm gonna give you at least half of it. You can't take over everything as a government either, I get that. But that seems to me to be a starting point that should be workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u241	Precisely because we have a third term and because I really think we still have to look into it, I find it uncomfortable to say now how much it should be. Should it be half or less possible? Or is half of it reasonable and you shouldn't do it anymore? I wouldn't say that right now. That also depends, I think, on how structural the problem is. If it's a very short peak, you really have a different argument than if you're stuck with it for maybe a year or six months. So I fully understand what Mr Nijboer is saying, and I also agree with many of the more fundamental remarks he makes. I would all like to come back to that in that third term, because then we must also agree on it. One final comment. One question that comes to mind with me, and I suspect also in a part of the Chamber, is: can you combine things that you already intended to do, for example in the field of isolation, in one way or another in time, practically with this discussion? I don't know. It may well be that you are faced with all kinds of practical problems, but it would be nice if you could also involve and intensify matters such as isolation in the solution room. But I don't know if that's possible. At least it's a mind-direction I have in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u242	Thank you. There are two more people who would like to interrupt, first of all Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV and then Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u243	I just want to stress that it is an urgent situation. France, for example, has said that we are going to freeze these tariffs for six months. In other words, people, don't worry; whether it's a temporary peak or a structural peak, we don't care, for six months, and we'll make sure you're not in the cold this winter. Isn't that a gesture this minister could make? He says, "Maybe it's a peak." Basically, I don't want to do anything about it, and maybe I want to see if we can isolate something in the future. It's no good to people. People are in the cold right now. They want to be able to heat up the heat now, whether they have a good house or a badly insulated house. This minister must offer comfort and say: listen, we are freezing the tariffs. Rates have already risen by €500 this year and next year they will rise by €500 again or perhaps even by €900. He can also say: until here and no further; we look in the spring, when the heating can turn off again, what the rates do and what it has cost us in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u244	What a complete nonsense reaction, also with regard to what I have just said, namely that it is a big and serious problem that the cabinet really intends to do a lot about. We take that to our attention in the short term, but on the basis of the facts and all the circumstances that relate to the wallet, the security of supply, the occasional side and the structural side. We're all gonna do that. At the very beginning of my speech I also mentioned France as an example of how it might be possible to see if that is effective. To pretend that the cabinet doesn't really want anything is bullshit, even if it's allowed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u245	It is not bullshit at all, because France has taken action right away. France sees the energy price go up by €1,000 per family and then says: boys, this is not going to happen to us; we freeze the rates. That's what this minister can do. He doesn't need letters, he doesn't need debates... none of that is necessary. Nibud has come out today and has said that this will cost a family an average of €1,000 per year from next year. You could have done it in the APB. Then there was no letter and no consultation needed. Just 500 million was used to reduce energy costs. It's too bad it results in four tens in the end. He could have made it $5 billion, because it would have been $400. In other words, you can act now. You can say tomorrow: listen, this is not going to happen to us; we will not leave our families in the cold this winter. Until today, people don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u246	It is precisely because of this that I believe there is broad support in the Chamber for doing something that is really sensible for as many people as possible in the country. That's the point. That is why you need to know the effect of a certain way of intervention. That is why Mr Omtzig is perfectly right to ask about those more specific purchasing power cards. If I were to say 'you know what, we're doing France, with all the pluses and all the mints', then the first questions from Omtzigt but also from others are what that actually means, what the solution is and how we look at, for example, at a higher energy price. It is in the French model that it is decided that the price of energy for people will remain much higher in structural terms, so that it will all be repaid again. It could be that's the solution. It could be. But let us give ourselves the chance to choose the best possible solution at as much speed as possible. I agree with Van Dijck. So it's not a matter of months. We're gonna do it soon. But I think it is really unwise to make a macho gesture here quickly and then to see that we have invented something that ultimately does not work for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u247	To be honest, it seems credible when I hear this. I think something will come soon. I also see that there are all kinds of reports in the media and that there is not a single party in Parliament that says that you should not do anything with those energy prices. I think that's good news for the people of Holland. At the same time, I believe that this is the time for the parties to give direction to the talks that will take place tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, in which the outgoing cabinet will look at this. I am concerned when the Minister of Finance says 'we have to look at the harrowing cases', but perhaps he said that unintentionally. I agree that you should also look at the harrowing cases: people in a poorly isolated rental house with an old central heating boiler and a lot of gas consumption. After all, they suffer most from it. But do I understand that the government is thinking about target groups and that certain target groups are not going to benefit from this? Or are we going to do something for everyone in the Netherlands, at least for all households?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u248	It is tempting to refer briefly to the Acts, but I will not do so. I have just said to Mr Nijboer and at the very beginning of the debate that I think that those who are most affected in their wallets by a few extra tens a month should be the first concern of the cabinet. So these are low-income people and middle-income people, with modal incomes. That's what it's all about. That doesn't mean that I don't think you should do anything for people who earn two or three more modes or more. But as Mr Nijboer himself pointed out, he is not the one who... Or let me not make it personal: people with his income are not the ones who immediately have a problem with a gas bill of a few tens. Once again, I want to see to what extent you have to do something for them, but I want to make sure that the solution we are choosing, especially for those who get into trouble immediately, is working. That is why I do not intend to say at the moment that this should be 50%, or a little more, or that it should be 50% in all cases. I don't think that's wise. I do not want us to make a gesture that we think is 'fifty percent of the cabinet is absolutely beautiful', after which someone has a bill of tens a month and there are also Dutch people who will not be able to pay it in the end. We never get a solution that is perfect for everyone, but the solution we come up with must be enough sticky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u249	Good, then that's taken away too. I thought I could see that we are only making a compensation scheme for the distressing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u250	No, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u251	Then it's okay. Why do I say that? In the case of tax rates on natural gas, the first segment is so wide, i.e. up to a consumption of 170,000 cubic metres per year, that all households are covered. That's what's bothering everyone. It is 30 times higher than the tax rates for the large industry. I would think: look at the differences between all households and the big industry and do not distinguish between households. Because that would be unwise to me. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u252	I very much agree with that too. I also think this is a suggestion that we should consider whether we are bringing the solution closer in this way. I would like to point out once again that it really matters whether in a month's time it turns out that it is not so bad and it was a very short peak because for some reason the supply has increased considerably or demand has declined. It is ultimately a story of supply and demand, or that we are going to a situation of perhaps six to nine months or more. If you have a problem of three months, you can also ask for something else from households, especially from people who are way above average. In the end, the problem is smaller for everyone than in a situation of six to nine months or even longer. So I am going to take Mr Alkaya's specific suggestion, but I would like to come up with a solution that will help us not only in the short term, but also in the longer term. In that third period, we really need to go over what that solution looks like, what it's gonna be like in different types of households, what we're gonna do if this problem lasts longer, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u253	Finally, on this subject. Glad the Minister's taking this suggestion. I would like to clarify the following. We have an occasional problem, but as far as the Socialist Party is concerned, we also have a structural problem, if there is such a difference in tax rates between households and large industry; a factor of 30, that is 36 cents compared to 1.5 cents for the large industry. Those tax rates are structurally disproportionately detrimental to households. That's what we need to look at. My question to the Minister is whether the cabinet is able to solve this structural inequality. I am aware that these are two different questions. At the same time, therefore, it is not just an occasional problem that is now being caused by Russia or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u254	I certainly want to promise that we will take with us what energy prices are like for individuals and for companies, in the Netherlands, but also in other countries. I would like to point out that we are not just dealing here with a problem for citizens. We are also facing a major problem for companies that are heavily dependent on energy, on gas prices, and that these companies are potentially falling apart if this problem persists. Companies, which are of course often large consumers of energy, have not in the past had a different type of price than private individuals. That's what you're gonna have to take in there. I hope that Mr Alkaya will assume from me that there really is an urgent and urgent problem when it comes to households, which is threatening, but there is also a real urgent problem with a lot of companies, where people simply have jobs, which are very dependent on gas and therefore also on gas prices. If that gas price increases there by 40%, 50%, 60%, you know exactly what that means for a company. Then you have a very short-term potential big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u255	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u256	Probably gonna be my last interruption, I know that. Just to be sure, I had another question that the Minister has not yet answered about the calculation of the inflation rate. I'm guessing you're at the end of this block, which is why I'm gonna do it again. The question is whether you are prepared to calculate the inflation rate in this way, preferably with retroactive effect, that the rising house prices are also included. Otherwise, the purchasing power plates are presented far too brightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u257	I'm in the "other" block, by the way, but that's pretty fucked up. I would like to assure Mr Van Houwelingen that I will ask those who make the purchasing power plates what is and is not possible there with regard to house prices. Those aren't pictures we make as the Treasury Department. I would like to put that question there and then there will be an answer, but I cannot say that here. Then, of course, the Chamber will be informed. Then there are a few things in the category "other." Mr Van Dijck asked about the plan to prevent companies from being able to repay NOW aid. The really exceptionally good news is that the vast majority of the recoveries are caused by significantly better turnover figures. It is also positive that more than 70% of companies repay the recovery immediately. There is, of course, a great deal of attention from the cabinet and the UWV to any problems and very generous payment arrangements are possible. If necessary, the Secretary of State may further philosophize about this. Mr. Houwelingen asked about the influence of lockdowns on supply chains. It's true that these lockdowns in all kinds of industries have had an impact on those supply chains, and sometimes also have an impact, and that's what we all read in the press. This also has an effect on growth in some sectors, I think we can all see that. That's not something else we can solve here. It is a statement on which I agree with Mr Van Houwelingen. By the way, there are also many options for action for companies and for the government in the longer term, if you look at the Circular Manufacturing Implementing Programme. Mr Van Houwelingen asked for an assessment of the economic costs of the lockdowns. For this I would like to refer to all the figures that are known about the economic contraction, then economic growth and the additional cost of corona. Relatively, you can make a nice sum. By the way, it should be noted that the impact was partly due to the policy of the cabinet, but primarily because of the dynamics of the Dutch economy and society, less deep than expected and that the catching-up growth in recent months has really been extremely significant. Mr. Snels asked about the care workers at the bottom. It is good to say that they too are making progress. In addition to the additional resources resulting from the motion, EUR 1.6 billion will be available for 2022 in the area of working conditions. This means that there is on average about 2.5% of wages across the board. By carrying out the motion, the cabinet implements the wish of the Chamber to close the salary gap for the middle of the wage building, which has been identified by the ESC. Furthermore, with VWS in the background, the conversation is really about social partners. Mr Heinen asked about the hydrogen economy, a theme that inspires him and me. He asked whether the cabinet already has long-term plans to stimulate hydrogen economy and infrastructure. Additional steps have been taken in the last August negotiations. Again, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has taken the lead in this. She managed to convince colleagues in the cabinet. Moreover, my suspicion is that it is not going to stay with those amounts and that there is simply much more to be done. Because of course this is a potential game changer in the field of energy transition. Mr Hammelburg asked how we would make our financial sector more sustainable. The good news is that the Dutch financial sector in Europe and globally is one of the leading players. Cabinet policy has three pillars: the consideration of climate impacts in policy, the promotion of transparency and the building of experience on issues such as green finance. The Ministry does so, but I note that this is also being taken into account in the financial sector very extensively. It is not for nothing that I am also active in the group of finance ministers, for example, in the field of climate change. This is a theme that concerns me and which the Netherlands and its financial sector are committed to. Mr Hammelburg further asked how the cabinet takes responsibility for combating climate change. I think I can refer to the August decision-making process and the steps that have already been taken. By the way, I do so in full knowledge that much more is needed. I have answered Mr Van Raan's question on fossil fuels. Mr Snels and Mr Grinwis were still asking about homeless people and making the relevant resources structural. Municipalities receive structural resources for the social care of homeless people and homeless people. This amounts to a total of about 400 million. Certainly Mr Grinwis, but also Mr Snels will recognize that. Because of the increase we have seen, we have given a temporary extra boost of 200 million in 2020 and 2021. The SP asked which investors might be on the housing market. Honestly, I really think that's about a next cabinet. Given the earlier position of the SP, I understand very well that the SP wants to limit that and perhaps even stop it altogether. I do not think there is any point in repeating what the Minister of Housing said about this earlier, because our half-life has been amply achieved. Mr Van Dijk's question about the RRF has been resolved in one of the debates on it. I have just said something about Mr Van Houwelingen's question about house prices, at least with regard to the Netherlands. In the question about the ECB, I have to refer again to independence, but that is what he is used to from me. Mr Azarkan asked about pensions. I would like to refer here to the pension agreement and to the ongoing dialogue with the Minister and now the Secretary of State of SZW on this subject. Mrs Den Haan was quite right to ask about the purchasing power development of pensioners and the transition period. Moreover, she touched on many of the points that we had previously had in the debate and which I also answered. It rightly refers to the problem, particularly in the second pillar. The good news is that we are really maintaining purchasing power in the first pillar. I think that's important to mark. Mrs Den Haan is also asking for the rules for the transition period to be brought forward. I would like to refer to the answer given to Mrs Den Haan last Tuesday when she asked the same question to the SZW Secretary of State. At that time he argued that the rules for the transition period are laid down in the future pensions law. That law has yet to be passed by the House of Representatives and will not enter into force until 2023. That also does not make it possible to bring the rules forward. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzig asked about the number of officers in departments. On that point too, I would suggest that he resume this dialogue with another cabinet, because I do not see what the outgoing cabinet can do about it. The same is true of Mr Grinwis' question on the National Real Estate Company. Mrs Den Haan also supported more solidity in the Prevention Agreement. To be honest, I think that Secretary of State Blokhuis has done very well by getting it done if he has succeeded. I very much agree with Mrs Den Haan that we must continue this dialogue with each other, because there is a lot of health gains to be made, especially for those who are already in difficult conditions, if we are doing more in the area of prevention. This applies to alcohol and tobacco. This applies to the enormous misery that we have in this country in terms of obesity, especially among children. That really is a terrible problem, which children often do not get rid of for the rest of their lives and which prevention could help greatly. So I very much agree with Mrs Den Haan. I also very much agree with all the others who have referred to the great tragedy of child poverty, as far as I am concerned. This is often accompanied by this type of problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u258	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u259	I challenge the government to take a real look at the number of informers. The number of informers has increased from 600 to 800. I gave examples of this: I know that there are more than 60 of them in Finance. There are more informers than families have been helped at the Real Damage Commission, after working for 1.5 years to start solving the childcare surcharge scandal. So it's a problem. I already made a motion by Mr Remkes from 2009, when there were only a few hundred informers. That number has now doubled and it is being moved back to the next cabinet. I have tabled 12 amendments today. I just took away half a million dollars from every department so that five or six informers would disappear. I have given examples of departments where more than 100 informers work. I would prefer the cabinet to look carefully at this itself, because they know exactly what is needed and not necessary. But there are departments where the ministerial staff has about 30 people who are in the information, writing, in that sphere. That's a bit on the high side, especially when you see how Wob requests are handled. We are talking more about information than about solving problems. So I'd like to challenge the government. Send me a plan within two weeks that says what you think is possible. This is a reduction from 800 to 750. So 50 more each year. We'll take 50 off next year. We're not doing anything radical. And you know what we're gonna do with it? We're going to set up a think tank for pensions and social security. 'Cause we don't have it in the government. But do you have another idea? Then that's fine with me. But I challenge the government to come up with a plan of its own. We've been talking about this for ten years. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to come up with a plan with his colleagues within a few weeks, which states what he sees as opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u260	That poor government has been challenged so much over the past four years and, while the coalition negotiations are under way, it is now really in that injury period that I have just referred to. I understand a part of the inconvenience in itself, but I would like to add that, of course, there is a constant demand for information in those departments, that there is a virtually continuous monitoring of information. All kinds of questions are frequently asked and all kinds of rulers have to appear for cameras. A lot of things are happening in the field of communication. These are things that my predecessors from only 8 years ago, but certainly those from 10, 20 or 30 years ago, say: The Hague has changed completely but also completely. So saying all those things that they're actually redundant would be too short for me. Nor does Mr Omtzigt. But I'd like to put that aside. In general, I always think it wise to look carefully at whether you are spending money carefully. This applies to words, which apply to communication, but I think that applies more broadly to departments. I can imagine that at the formation table there is real attention to that. But I do not think it is entirely right to ask colleagues in the cabinet now if they are going to look at that again. I really think we should leave that to another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u261	Thank you. You have two more interruptions left, and there are two more Secretary of State, Mr. Omtzigt. I'm just giving it as a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u262	Both, I'd like to introduce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u263	Then I'll come back to the Secretary of State later. I have a question for you. But it's a fact that it's being transferred here to the cabinet formation. This is a serious problem and it can simply be discussed. I don't think it's nice to pass it on. You don't have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u264	Well, then, here's what we're gonna do. I really don't want to get rid of it, but it's getting complicated. If you see what we have already done in the Spring Paper and what we have done in the decision-making process in August, and you also add to that what the Chamber itself has done... You can say a lot about the cabinet, but not that they have written the word "demissionary" in capital letters when it comes to new policies. We have done a lot of new things, more than some Cabinets have done before at the start of a cabinet period. If I give this suggestion to colleagues in the cabinet again, I will leave it to them how they intend to take it up and where they think there is a problem or no problem. At least it was put there in the week. Again, I think we should do more than just look at the numbers and say: they are high numbers. It also has to do with the dynamics in which we all work. I would like to put this part of the debate back in the cabinet tomorrow with all sorts of pleasure. Let me say that to Mr Omtzigt. Furthermore, I hope he will recognize that on a large number of issues I should not just like to go along with what I said at the very beginning of the debate, namely that I am going to disappoint Members when it comes to things that I might want but which I can no longer do because I am in the tail of this cabinet period. I hope he understands. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost through. I can see you rushing with impatience. Mrs Den Haan asked about my view of the shortage of the labour market in the healthcare sector. There's no small thing to do about it in five more lines. And yet it has to be. There is an Economic and Social Committee opinion that goes into this in detail. The policy response to this is to a new cabinet. I assume, moreover, that my fellow Member, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, obviously we have taken that word and that Hugo de Jonge will consider this in the Labour Market Committee debate. Then Mrs Van der Plas asked what happens to the landscape when farmers are bought out and whether they are looking at what it costs, a very fair question. As Minister Schouten said earlier, these buy-out schemes are voluntary, that only a provincial buy-out scheme buys up land in some cases, and that it happens in good consultation with the province and the farmer. The design of a possible follow-up approach is really up to a next cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at the end of the debate, but not of my Latin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u265	If you'll just wait a little longer. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u266	I've been waiting all afternoon for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u267	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u268	I'm patient. I'm waiting my turn. I had asked whether there could be a calculation or an estimate of the costs, and not just from landscape management. Can it be estimated what it would cost society if farmers in rural areas, rural tourism, agricultural shops and employment disappeared? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u269	A very good question, but not a question I now have an answer to. I would like to agree with Mrs van der Plas that I would ask the Ministries of Finance and LNV to look at all the things that still have to be done in the area of nitrogen and see if they want to take this part of the puzzle. I understand the question, but I'm not sure what is and isn't possible. Then I'll put that question there. My dark brown suspicion is that the next cabinet will soon have to enter into a dialogue with the Chamber on how to tackle the nitrogen problem and also the climate problem. This is a very relevant part of that. Is that a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u270	That's a solution. I had a motion ready with this intention. I leave it to your considerations and your appreciation to provide me with extra good advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u271	If that motion is exactly as I have just said, then it can only be given Chamber. But I really get the inspiration, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u272	We're gonna see it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u273	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck is messing around a bit, but I would like to say that I am really in the tail of Mrs Gündogan's remark on obesity. I fully agree with that. I believe that Mrs Den Haan's comment on older workers has been addressed. Then I have one or two more things I have to mark. The first is that I would like to point out something that is not new to the spokesmen, namely that we have, of course, a lot of political desires not only here, but that we remain in the triangle of expenditure, burdens and the question of what to do with debt in the long term. There is not so much talk in this debate, but sometimes there seems to be a broader idea that it is impossible and that we can pay it all without increasing the burden and without passing on the bill. The financial spokesmen, of course, know that this cannot be done. In any case, I wanted to highlight this on this particular subject. I say this because I have heard a nice story from Mr Eppink about the Friesian Finance Ministers. I have to say that I have looked at my predecessors through all kinds of paradigms, but I never thought: who are all of Frisian origin? I must add that when I come to Friesland myself, I often come there, from childhood onwards, there is always a short moment of great joy because people think: it will be one of us. But then there is a moment of great disappointment, namely if it turns out that I don't live there, my parents don't live there, my grandparents don't live there anymore, I don't speak the language and I understand it only moderately. But I thought it was an interesting idea to choose that cut. I would like to thank Mr Eppink for that comparison and all the fine words. I have every one of the predecessors he mentioned, such as Duisenberg and Zijlstra, extremely high. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u274	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u275	I have another question about housing. The Minister didn't say much about that. I understand that part of it is on the formation table. Of course, that should have been done sooner, because then there had been intervention earlier. Anyway, that's all water under the bridge. There's ten times 100 million in the budget. We have received a note stating that the cabinet has no idea what to do with it and that we do not hear it for the BZK budget either. I don't like that. In fact, I think that's bad. I ask the Minister: how is it that a billion has been set aside and there is no idea what is going to happen to it, when the housing shortage is going to take a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u276	I have to admit that the problem of housing shortage is not solved by the steps we have taken before. We've made reservations before. During the period October/November, the previous cabinet discussed with Mr Nijboer himself, among others, but also with the GroenLinks Group, what additional steps you could take. We have reached an agreement on this with the PvdA and GroenLinks. That too is not enough, but it is a next step. Now you've got that billion. Moreover, we have made the explicit agreement about that billion, a cash series of ten times 100 million, that if you can effectively spend that money, you can draw it forward, contrary to what is normally allowed under the budgetary rules. On the exact destination and how to spend it effectively, I should really consult the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I can assure Mr Nijboer that tomorrow I will be bringing that into the cabinet with the question of whether there is a further sleeve to be adjusted. But I don't know if that's possible. I know, however, that in the documents that have gone to the Chamber earlier, it is explicitly stated that a sensible interpretation really takes a little more time. I would like to repeat that, but I do not know whether that is possible and I do not want to put the Minister of State in an impossible position along this road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u277	It is a good thing that the Minister is reappelling, but it is not really a good thing that it comes to this. It is a missionary cabinet, which only does what is really necessary for where the need is for the man, but it reserves ten times 100 million of which it itself does not know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u278	It's about living.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u279	Living, yes, but I don't know where it's going. I don't know if colleagues know that, but I don't know. I do know that the Housing Fund, which was indeed negotiated last year in the budget, was for one year, because we thought that there would be a missionary cabinet. I would therefore like at least to extend the Housing Fund of 450 million. That's overdrawn. That's for investing in liveable neighborhoods. I'd rather have that next to the billion than fill in that billion. But since I don't know what's in that billion, it's a little tricky to amend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u280	I understand that, but then I also ask for understanding of what I can do here and what I can't do here. I recognize that Mr Nijboer says that a letter has been sent stating that the implementation of these plans will be delayed. I understand this in itself, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has, of course, had to deal with this relatively recently. Once again, I would like to go to the cabinet again to see if there is any possibility of an answer, but I am afraid to say so. That is easy done here, but then the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to explain here that there are all kinds of practical objections in the way. I don't think I'd be courteous at her then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u281	We have been sitting here for several hours and I have tried to listen very carefully to everything the Minister says and to all the answers to the questions asked yesterday. But I missed one answer. I asked you this yesterday. Can we expect a CO budget next year at Prinsjesdag? What about the climate frameworks and the commitment to my former colleague Van Weyenberg on the Spring Paper? How's that going? Maybe I missed it and didn't hear it, or maybe the Minister didn't give the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u282	I have, of course, spoken all kinds of benevolent words about this in the category of wide prosperity. I shall come back to this very specifically. Maybe I can do that in second term. If I have missed just one question between those hundreds of questions, I count my blessings, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u283	It would be nice if the Minister could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u284	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u285	This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Minister of Finance. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes and then we're gonna start with the Secretary of State for Finance. I suggest we have a dinner break after that. After the dinner break the second term follows. I'm suspending the meeting now, so we can stretch our legs for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u286	The next item is the follow-up to the General Financial Reviews. I will be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u287	Thank you, Mr President. As thin as the Tax Plan this year, so concise will be my answer. There weren't that many questions. Last year there were a lot and now very few. So I learned from it: a thin tax plan. That brings me to the point made by Mr Omtzigt, who is not in the Chamber right now. I sent a letter in spring following last year's Tax Plan, but also several times before, criticizing the thickness of the Tax Plan. I have indicated a number of points in that regard to ensure that the treatment of the Tax Plan..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One of the methods for this is to spread the legislative proposals over a year and not put everything into the Tax Plan. The second proposal is that we make the Tax Collection Act more important. I thought Mr Omtzigt argued the same thing. That law will be submitted in the spring. Thirdly, the proposal raises the following question in that letter. Could you make the decisions for a very large part in the spring? In other words, I think the Minister will use that letter to shape the tax section of his letter on the spring decision-making. Here's what I'm gonna say. There's an idea in that letter that I've been ported for myself. If you've done this for a while, you know that it might be useful to make a kind of multiannual fiscal calendar at the beginning of a cabinet period. Then the Chamber will know what can be expected as the implementation of the coalition agreement. I think that would be very much organized and would help. The thing about the Tax Plan and the implementation. Then there was a small question, or actually no real question. Mrs Gündoğan and Mr Alkaya spoke about the taxation of labour, the taxation of capital and the boxing structure. I think they will both understand very well that this cabinet is not going to do anything about it in the remaining weeks. But I understood Mr Alkaya and Mrs Gündoğan as well: can the Secretary of State say what you can do to make it better? Of course, we have had these debates with each other many times. I have read Jacobs and Cnossen again, I say to Mrs Gündoğan. The two gentlemen's opinion, and I actually agree with that, is that the tax system is certainly a patchwork in boxes 1, 2, and 3 in relation to the taxation of capital and capital gains. It's a mess, because you do something different in one box than in the other. The Chamber knows that in the autumn I think very soon I will come up with a contour note on box 3. In it I will indicate how we can get to the real rate of return. I will certainly try to ensure that this is on the table with the cabinet formation. That seems to me to be an important step forward, but you can make progress in all these areas. Mr Alkaya spoke mainly about the Vpb and I say to him that there is, of course, an important international development. It seems that we are going to get a minimum rate on profits. Tomorrow is a very important day for that, because tomorrow the so-called institutional framework of the OECD will come together. I thought they were more than 130 countries and they are probably going to agree with each other. I hope that will produce good news tomorrow. That should be confirmed by the G20 next week. That is actually what I wanted to say on this point, but I see Mr Alkaya standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u288	It is understandable that the technique of all these separate tax measures between the boxes is very complicated. We have indeed talked about this many times, but I would like to make one more point in the General Financial Reviews. If you look at the collective burden and at what it is built up from, these are taxes on labour, capital and consumption. In the Netherlands, capital charges are lower than the average of the European Union and those on labour. I therefore ask for an analysis of and a view on whether this should not be more balanced. I do not expect immediate action from this cabinet, but I am thinking of tabling a motion for the next cabinet, for example that the cabinet will consider how to balance it. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u289	I try to understand what Mr Alkaya says when he says: balancing. If you simply look at the revenue from the tax on labour and the revenue from the tax on capital as a percentage of GDP, there is quite a gap. But you have to be careful and keep comparing apples to apples. In other words, you have to compare the good things. You're gonna have to look at the effective rates. If you look at the tax on capital, you can see that in the case of the taxation of capital with corporation tax, we are now somewhere on the average in Europe, even though that still depends a little on how you calculate. We're not low anymore. Mr Alkaya does have a point if you look at the taxation of private property. It's true that we'll be on the low side. That is right, and there is a lot of discussion about that. There's all kinds of ways to go with that. If you are going to apply "real return" in box 3, then the load on power is going down in the first instance, I say to Mr Alkaya. Everyone's for that, because that's more honest. But besides that, there's something else you can do. I have said this before in a debate. You can also, for example, introduce a normal capital tax. Of course, I can philosophize about this for hours, but then I'm going to read my party's program. I can do that, but I don't think that makes much sense. This is just something for the formation. We know that the capacity inequality in the Netherlands is relatively high. When you look at the load of wealth, it's not weird in itself. If that is what Mr Alkaya means, then I can totally follow him and I agree with him. Which brings me to what the Minister would call an evergreen. Unfortunately, he is not in the Chamber, because it is an evergreen by Mr Stoffer about the gap between one and two earners. He's back in! Last year, in response to the General Financial Review, I set up the Commission on Carrying Power. That committee has come up with proposals and in the motion that has been adopted, the Chamber says that a subsequent cabinet should take measures to reduce that difference in tax burden between one and two earners. Well, that's up to the formation. It's a bit of a silly answer, but that's the way it is right now. I have, but Mr Stoffer knows that, provided the input through the Commission for this purpose. This is how we supplied the buttons that can be turned on. Then Mrs Van der Plas asked if I could say anything about the costs and benefits of fraud policy, fraud and supervision at the Tax Office. I only made that concrete on the basis of the FIOD. Over the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, the cost of this was 120 million, 125 million and 140 million. The proceeds in those years have been 775 million, 190 million and 524 million. For the good listener: the benefits have thus been a lot higher than the costs of the FIOD's search policy. That is what I can report in this area at the moment. That brings me to the last point I wanted to address. Mr Hammelburg asked yesterday whether the leaders could comment on the sustainability of the financial sector. The Minister said something about this in general terms. I wanted to say something about export credit insurance. In April I had a virtual meeting with ministers from France, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Spain and the United Kingdom. In doing so, we have agreed that we are trying to take forward with those countries on the greening of export credit insurance. I can inform Mr Hammelburg that we will be organising the second meeting in November. It will look at how to do this in concrete terms, the greening of export credit insurance. My time is up; my coffee is still there but I am through my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u290	I just want to look at Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union, who may want to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u291	I missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u292	I have missed the answer to the question about foundations that can erode in a time of transitions and change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u293	It's not in this set, but that's such a nice question, I can answer it by heart. Mr Grinwis gave a number of examples. The most striking example in which I myself came across this last year was in all taxes relating to cars. Mr Omtzigt is not inside, but this is also a favourite subject of Mr Omtzigt. What you simply see there is indeed fluctuation but also simply eroding foundations. Why these are eroding is obvious: if you charge excise duty on petrol and there is less and less driving in petrol cars, that base is getting smaller. It's a broader game. In terms of car mobility, you can see that paying for use is ultimately the only really good solution, but it is a solution that takes time. Sometimes you see that these foundations also consciously erode, that this is the purpose of the policy. Of course, you don't enter regulatory charges to raise money, but you enter them to make sure that people's behaviour is affected. There are all kinds of examples, especially in excise duties, where we try to prevent harmful behaviour and at the same time the basis is eroded. I think this is a typical example of something that should be taken into account in the design of the tax package of a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u294	Thank you. Then I want the Secretary of State for Finance... Oh, Mr. Tony van Dijck, PVV. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u295	In my first term I also had a whole block on excise duties and why you pay 50 cents less in Belgium and Germany for a litre of petrol than in the Netherlands, and why this Secretary of State of State of that €2 per litre that we pay now, has to skim €1.15, and how much the treasury misses out in the Netherlands, because everyone in the border region does their groceries and gasses, and why the Secretary of State doesn't lower excise duties so much that we are lower than in Belgium and in Germany, so that the Belgians and the Germans come to refuel in the Netherlands as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u296	Thank you, that was indeed a question asked. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u297	The Freedom Party is the most consistent in its questions, because I had oral questions from Mr Madlener two months ago, and I had exactly the same questions there. I'd like to give you exactly the same answer. That's what I'm gonna do now. Mr Van Dijck is simply right that excise duties in the Netherlands are higher. There's a purpose behind that. We are doing this because Mr Madlener did not want to hear it at the time, but perhaps Mr Van Dijck wants to hear it because we have CO2 targets. So if we do not do it and we reduce the excise duty, then more petrol will be used, and that is not good for emissions. That's why we're doing it this way. Mr Van Dijck is, of course, right that this has border effects. That's true. If Mr Van Dijck would like to do so, I would like to ask him once again to calculate exactly what would be the income effects if you lower excise duties, because it is true that more Belgians and Germans come to fill up in the Netherlands and that this is the other way around. That will be true, but of course that is not going to close the gap created by this lower excise duty. So there is a gap in the treasury, but I think Mr Van Dijck knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u298	Depends on how many Germans and Belgians come to fill up in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u299	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u300	I'm from the border region myself. I do know that the whole border region, almost from Eindhoven, is heading towards Belgium and Germany. A very large part of the Netherlands simply fills up abroad. That's right, or else you're a thief of your own wallet. And they also do their shopping there, because they are also much cheaper in Belgium and Germany. In other words, we're missing a lot of money. I have been asking for this for ten years, because ten years ago we had these discussions. This Secretary of State does not want to know, I even believe that Mr Weekers did not want to know at the time how much we are missing. It is an illusion to think that you will have more CO emissions, because if you have to pay €1.50 per litre at the pump, there are really no people who say: well, then I'm going to have a fun ride. The gas is just very expensive. Nobody gass up for fun. Nobody drives for fun here in the Netherlands. The impact on CO emissions is therefore 0.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u301	Mr Van Dijck and I do not agree on the policy, but if he wants it, I can ask at the department if we know what the border effects would be of lower excise duties. Well, there are investigations into that. I believe that's the question. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u302	Thank you. Then we'll clean up again and then I'll give the floor to the other Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been put to me in this debate. I'm gonna try to answer it as best I can. I shall begin with Mr Snels' question on the abolition of the surcharge system and whether this will be possible during this cabinet period. I think that's a little tricky. It's something we need to think about together in the next cabinet period. It is clear that the present system has enormous disadvantages. We do not only see this in the problems I am working on every day, namely the very poignant situations that have arisen with the childcare allowance. We also see that many of the surcharges still cause people to get into trouble, because they are so specific and can lead to large amounts of recovery. This certainly applies to the childcare allowance, but also to the rent and care allowance. There are all kinds of problems involved in this current system. Of course, in December last year, the cabinet made a number of proposals to adapt the system. Depending on the new cabinet, the Minister has already said a great deal about all the negotiations that will have to be held in the coming period. Of course, we can opt for a new system. So I think it is very important that the new cabinet should do so. Then, of course, it depends on the choices whether you will be totally able to achieve that. If you look at the report that we have presented presenting different alternatives, you will see that it will probably take more than one cabinet period to reform and change everything. Then, of course, it's about the depth. If a new cabinet would choose not to change anything, then of course it can. But if you want a fundamental change and make fundamental choices, then it will really take more time. We have also predicted this and the number of deadlines you need for this will sometimes rise to two or three. This is without prejudice to the importance of continuing to work on improving the current system where we can, despite the fact that this issue is discussed in the formation. A motion has been passed, the Lodders/Van Weyenberg motion. We have already proposed some of the measures and ideas for improving the system and they are included in this Tax Plan. I think it is very important that we continue to look at this and that we continue to improve both the system itself and the service provided around the surcharges in such a way that the number of recoverys is reduced year by year and that services are improved for all. I also refer to a point made by Mr Grinwis: we must also ensure that, for example, the non-use of surcharges is reduced as much as possible. So not only fewer recoveries, but also reduce their non-use. Then there is Mr Alkaya's question about the victims of the premium affair and the problems involved in its recovery. It is not true that only 10% of the parents who have reported to us have been helped over 47,000. We've got 47,200 people coming in. That's in the preliminary report we're discussing next week. Three quarters of them have now had that first careful test to determine whether or not they are duped. That test shows that about 22,000 parents are entitled to recovery, to compensation. For about 14,000 parents, therefore, it could not be established that there is a right to recovery. Of those 22,000 parents, 20,000 have received at least €30,000. In addition, in addition to the €30,000 they have received, their debts are suspended in accordance with the moratorium that we have established in this Chamber, which entitles them to additional help from their congregation where necessary, for example in the areas of living, work, care for children and that kind of subject matter. In addition, we have evaluated a number of parents in full. That's about 4,200. But I think, like Mr Alkaya, that we should see if we can speed up the recovery operation. We will undoubtedly be discussing this much more extensively next week. We are going to talk about our review operation, in which we look, among other things, at the proposals made by the SP, to speed up and thereby ensure that we can help many more parents in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u304	It's not going well between this Secretary of State and me. I'm asking a serious question. The Secretary of State knows how well we are in these files, how much contact we have with parents and how much we have fought for them. And she's gonna be throwing numbers around here anyway. I said that less than 10% of people have been fully compensated. And that's right. And then she says: that's not true, because three-quarters have already had a test and part of it has already received €30,000. It's possible. Less than 10% have been fully compensated for the damage they have suffered. That is the situation after so much time that we are working on this after a cabinet has fallen. We're here in the General Financial Reviews. We have found that money is not the problem. This Secretary of State has had carte blanche. The money's not the problem. It's just extremely disappointing. So I really only have one question for the Secretary of State: does she have the ambition to return to a new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u305	Let me just say a few things about that. With the SP I fight hard to ensure that parents are helped as quickly and as well as possible. I do not want to dwell entirely on it either, but when it comes to those percentages: yes, we have been able to compensate 4,200 parents completely. That's from the group of 47,000 parents who reported in. But a large proportion of those 47.000 parents are also not eligible for compensation. In the current groups this is about 40%. That does not mean that these people are not in trouble, because in many cases they are. However, they are not eligible for compensation as a result of the recovery of the childcare allowance. But let me just make it clear once again that we are pulling on exactly the same side of the rope. We both want the situation of as many parents as possible to be restored as quickly as possible. So we're doing everything we can. We made sure that we could also help a lot more parents through this Catshuis scheme. They have not yet been fully helped, but they have received €30,000. On that basis, their debts are suspended. We're paying off those debts. The repayment of public debts is already taking place. For example, many parents have already been excused from DUO, from the Tax Office or from another part of the government. And hopefully soon, their private debts will be forgiven. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. So we've taken more steps than just those integral assessments, but there's still a lot of work to be done. This is an incredibly complicated and complex task here and there, but we simply have to do it. We need all the help we can get, from the people from the Tax Administration, but also from all the others who are working on this. Think of all the municipalities in the Netherlands, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u306	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u307	The Secretary of State rightly said that we are going to discuss this in detail next week, of course. From my point of view, it will be around 4.15 p.m. next Tuesday. The only thing I'm saying about it today is that the Secretary of State is putting out the picture here that 4,200 people have been assessed in their entirety. "Integral" suggests that it has been dealt with for these people. That is precisely where the problem lies. My question to the Secretary of State is: how many of these people go to the Committee on Actual Damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u308	Of the group now it is about 7%. So 7% of the people who have been assessed in their entirety also choose to proceed to the Real Damage Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u309	Yeah, and the odds are that's not gonna be 7%. How long will it take for that integral assessment to be really ready for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u310	That depends on how long that committee takes. But since you also mention this, it is perhaps a good thing to say that for very many of the parents alone this financial compensation is insufficient. This is also evident from the documentary that has been broadcast. These parents need much more to restore their lives to some extent. This is not just about the amount you get, about the money, the compensation, the debts that are forgiven, but also about all kinds of other types of aid and support they need to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u311	I think a really broad approach is good. But I also notice that a lot of parents say they're tired, that they're threatening to give up. They say, "We just can't get through it, we're asked too much, we're stuck in that fight." A number of parents are still not well served. Some people say, "I offered, but my case isn't due for another year, so I don't know what I'm up to." Lawyers complain they won't be informed. In short, things are just not going well right now. My point is that if we keep doing it this way, it's just not gonna work. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u312	But that's exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u313	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u314	Well, I have to say that I always like it when a secretary of state has the enthusiasm to say "I want it too" and I got the impression...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u315	Then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u316	Yes, I see reason to immediately... Well, go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u317	In the previous progress report we found that if we continue to work in the current way, with the current numbers of people who have reported to us, also taking into account the fact that the integrated assessments take more time and the fact that we have seen more and more people reporting to us lately who are likely to be in serious trouble, but not so much overwhelmed by the childcare allowance... In the progress report we also indicate that in the last few months there has been a group of which between 60% and 80% do not belong, one might say, in the recovery operation of the childcare allowance. Once again, I shall return to Mrs van der Plas's questions in a moment. That does not mean that they do not have any problems, because they can very well be very serious. That's why we said we're going to recalibrate. That's what we do very extensively. In fact, while we are debating here today, there is a major review day in which parents, but also parties such as BOinK, parents' representatives, lawyers and the National Ombudsman are cooperating to find an answer to the question of how we can improve this operation for parents, in terms of helping in a way that suits them, but also of speeding up it. Because I agree with you that you would like it all to be resolved tomorrow and that some of the problems we face will be resolved as quickly as possible. So I very much agree with you. Luckily, there's a lot going well, too. There are also many parents who are happy. Maybe they're a little less public and on Twitter and otherwise visible. But there are also parents who are not at all satisfied, who really need more help and who also want to be helped faster. That is also what our review is aimed at, to ensure that they can actually be helped better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u318	Thank you. It is good to say that there is a note-to-note meeting on Tuesday at 6 p.m. Mr. Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u319	I am pleased to hear the Secretary of State say that it is not actually going well enough: "I also think that is what I am doing as Secretary of State and so I am taking all kinds of actions to improve that." I like that very much. That's what we're gonna talk about on the 12th. I now have another question, a more general one, which is in line with the previous questions that have been asked, namely the review of the supplement scheme. Last year we received a letter on this, but to what extent is it now being looked at in concrete terms as a basic income, which means that in the slightly longer term we are talking about the short term on Tuesday, but this is about the longer term on the one hand, that whole supplement system can be simplified? To what extent does the basic income or a form of basic income get a chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u320	I'm not sitting at the formation table right now, and I don't think Mr. Van Raan is either, so I can't say what's being discussed there. Between the variants that we presented last year as a cabinet, variations on how to adjust the surcharges, there is a very radical solution, namely a total change in the surcharge system and also the tax system, ensuring that you make the amenities free, free childcare and looking at care in a very different way. There is a political choice to be made. We know that parties in this Chamber can think very differently. With you, I hope that we will take a good and radical approach. Quite apart from the recalibratement, because it is about the recovery operation that we are currently working on: as regards the more fundamental approach to the surcharges, I hope that we will actually look at the two key problems that the current system of supplements entails, namely that it leads to uncertainty in their income for a lot of people and that this leads to problems if we have to pay back a lot, receive it later or not use it again. That's exactly what you don't want, because those fees are meant to support people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u321	There is an interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u322	The general complaint is that it takes too long. It's taking way too long. Now I hear from this Secretary of State that there are at least 47,000 people. At 12,000, the light test hasn't even been done to see if they're eligible. When can those 12,000 people expect that light test? I suppose one of those light tests can happen pretty quickly. Is it going to happen this year that everyone knows where they are and whether they are at least eligible? Or isn't that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u323	It might be good for Mr Van Dijck to know that of those 47,000 people reported last week 300 more. In other words, it's not like they're people who called in sometime in the spring. Lately, people come in every week. In spring it was sometimes 1,000 or more people per week. Now it's between 200 and 300 people a week. We said we'd take that first test in six months. Our aim is to ensure that, within six months, everyone is clear about whether or not the child care allowance is affected. If you are damaged, you immediately get that €30,000, there is a pause button for your debts and then the debts are resolved by us. So we'll basically do that within six months. So far, we've succeeded. We hope that we can continue to do so in the near future. But it is important to know that everyone will be helped as soon as possible. Then the integral test follows. It could take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u324	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u325	Then I would like to turn to the question put by Mrs Van der Plas. That question is taken from my heart because it is often asked to me. The question is why I don't just pay all those people; and yes, if there's someone there who happens not to have a right to it, well, shit. But what is complicated in this recovery operation is that quite a lot of people report to us who do not appear to be affected by the childcare allowance. In the first period, that was about 40% of the people who joined us. 60% were entitled to compensation and 40% were not. That number, of the people who report to us but have not turned out to be affected by the childcare allowance, has increased to some 60% to 80%. So if we were to give money to all those who report to us, we would give a lot of money to people who were not affected by the childcare allowance. In any case, therefore, we would like to do the first test to ensure that the money actually ends up in the hands of people who have been damaged. Then there is the second question on the subject. It is said: if you know whether or not someone is hurt, give him his money. But how much is that? Because the damage suffered by people really varies from relatively limited amounts, sometimes hundreds of euros or several thousand euros for some people, that can still be a lot of money to tons. So it's really hard to just give someone an amount. This requires more research, not just so that we know what to give, but above all, of course, to do people justice. Part of that justice, for a lot of people, is actually understanding what happened. How much have I had to pay too much wrongly? What years was that? How much more damage did I suffer from that? How is that settled, etcetera, etcetera? That question you are asking is a very fair question, which is often asked to me, but it is very difficult to answer when a lot of people report to us who are probably in a lot of trouble and do not know very well in advance whether or not they had to pay back a lot. They'd like us to find out. It is also complicated because the damage that people have suffered is incredibly different. That's why we chose the system to do the first test first and then give people €30,000. We have, of course, discussed this system extensively in this Chamber before. Our assumption is that by doing so, we have given about half of the parents at least the compensation they are entitled to. The other half of the people need more work. They will eventually be able to get a lot more money from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u326	It's nice that this serious question is being considered. But in that sense, I'm just a layman. Can't you just say we give people an advance and then we see what they have to pay back? I also understand that this is a lot of red tape, but I am looking more at the people I suspect or know are entitled to it when they are still not getting it because of this problem. I understand that it's very complicated and that it has to be found in a good mode, but that should be possible. Surely there has to be something that can be found that these people get paid faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u327	The test we do in principle is a test in which we say: we give people €30,000. We have expressly chosen not to make an advance on this. Even if it turns out that under the official compensation rules you would be entitled to less, we will not recover it. If there's one thing these superparents hate, the idea is that you give an advance and then you reclaim. Of course, we are going to look at this further in the recalibrated arrangements. On the contrary, recovery is not included. When someone reports to us, we take that first test and give people who are entitled to compensation €30,000, which they are always allowed to keep, including the debt approach and the help by municipalities. In recent weeks and months, the number of people who report to us that we are not entitled to compensation has increased significantly, up to 80%. When we made the law last spring, we also looked very closely at whether this type of advance system would help. But if there's one big fear of these parents, it's the idea that they have to pay back. In that these people are very different from, for example, the entrepreneurs who have applied for a Tozo or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u328	But the parents who know of themselves that they have been wronged don't have to be afraid of having to pay back? It is especially the cases that already know "we'll try and see where the ship is stranded." They don't have to be afraid they're gonna get hurt, like, "Yeah, we're gonna have to pay back later"? They simply do not appear to have made a good declaration or not made a good application.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u329	The problem is linked to what I just talked about with Mr. Snels, namely the complexity of the surcharge system. For many parents it is not so easy for them to decide afterwards whether it was right or wrong for them to have received the recovery, because it is often about a lot of years ago. If they report to us, if we were to give such an advance, there might be a whole group where we have to ask for that money back. And in the meantime, they can't do anything with that money, because, yeah, there's a risk that you'll have to pay it back. So far we have not chosen to do so. I have never spoken to parents who said: do me such an advance, I like that very much and then we move on. Again, in that review, we're gonna talk about that. But precisely because of the cruelty of the advance system, which caused them to get a lot of money when they applied for it and then to pay it all back, I do not think that is a good solution in the context of this recovery operation. We certainly need to talk about speeding up, seeing if we can deliver more quality and better service, but advances are going to lead to other accidents, namely giving people money that we need to recover again. Let us also be clear about this: that is also one of the reasons why many people report to us, and we can see that a lot of these parents have really gotten into a lot of trouble, have relatively low incomes, may be in the welfare system now, and can not just repay any amount if it turns out to be wrong afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u330	How much longer is it gonna take? That may be a repeated question, but you said it could take a very long time. Could you be more specific about that? I also get a lot of that question, including what you said about it last week. Some kind of dot on the horizon. Very long can be ten years, a year, but it can also be fifty years, it's just how you look at it. Is there anything to be said about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u331	It depends very much on how many people are going to report in the next few days. As I said, every week there are two to three hundred parents who report. If that goes on, we'll be working on them for a while. When it comes to the people who have already reported to us, over 47,000, it is important to know how many people are ultimately entitled to compensation or not, and what we are going to do about it. But if we don't change anything and look at the numbers we give in the progress report, it could really take a long time. Like you and the parents, I don't think that's desirable. That is why, in the context of this review, we are looking at what we can do better and how we can make it faster, without losing service. The parents who have a business manager and are looking at it again attach to the fact that such a business manager dives very well into their file, spends time on it, writes their story, etc., etc. etc. So I find it very difficult to answer that question. What we want to do with this review is to see where we can improve and accelerate, together with municipalities and other parties, so that we can give the parents who are entitled to compensation clarity as soon as possible, but also help, in the broad sense of the word. Then I turn to Mr Omtzigt's question about the PwC investigation that was sent to your Chamber last week. He asks when his questions will be answered. I really have to refer here to the investigation itself and to the letter I sent about it, because those questions have been answered in so far as we have that information. I'd like to invite your room to have a conversation with PwC. They have offered to do a technical briefing. Then you can look further and talk to them about what they have to say about it. Mr Omtzigt's second question was to list the names of persons who saw the draft report. In the letter I indicated which people have seen this, but I cannot and will not share names of individual officials with the Chamber. It's no use doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u332	Thank you for the speedy transmission of these draft reports and the openness. We're definitely gonna have that conversation. The agreement on the assignment of PwC was also that the researchers would be available for this purpose. I asked two specific questions. Maybe you remember them, Mr. Chairman. I said: Question 9, see Question 8; Question 10, see Question 8; Question 11, see Question 8; Question 21, see Question 8. What happened on 4 and 5 June was very specific. Even the revised replies do not contain what was answered on 4 and 5 June. In the draft version it was said that the dg and the sg were talking about the memo-Palmen and that this was also discussed with the then Secretary of State. So I ask the Secretary of State if she can answer those questions: did that happen or did that not happen? In the answers you refer to the final report, but I just want to hear it from the government. Was the memo-Palms discussed on 4 and 5 June 2019, or wasn't the memo-Palms discussed with the dg and the sg and, in a later conversation, with the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u333	Then I must refer Mr Omtzigt to the report. On the basis of the fact that you said 'I would like the answer to these questions to come', we agreed with each other, or rather: did the Prime Minister undertake to carry out an investigation. We shared the research setup with your room. We also indicated that we would have that research conducted by PwC, and they did. They delivered the report. You have received the concept and you have received more from us. Based on the work they've done, it's been a rather extensive investigation. And I must refer you to that, because I have no more information than the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u334	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u335	I have two more questions. The first question. If the Secretary of State feels that it has not been discussed, she can simply give the answers to the parliamentary questions: it was not discussed on 4 and 5 June. But she just says, "You have to read the report." But there's quite a difference between the report and the draft report. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to form an independent opinion and to inform the Chamber of whether it has been discussed, because that is the constitutional duty of the government, and not to refer to reports. I hope to get the answer to that now, otherwise I will have to ask a written question. Secondly, I ask the Secretary of State whether, apart from the people on the list who have been given, there are still people who have directly or indirectly interfered with the changes. I understand that we are not going to change names in the Chamber. I understand that very well; so all the understanding for that. Have other people, as you know, directly or indirectly interfered with the changes that have been made, with the differences between the draft and the final version, from which many notable things have disappeared?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u336	I'm a bit repeating myself, but I think it's a good thing you're talking to the investigators. They can give you more information about the report, their findings and everything they have selected. I cannot answer that in any other way than the research that has been carried out shows. I do not have any information at my disposal other than that given for the purposes of the investigation. Then about the names. I sent a letter with an attachment from PwC. They have indicated that they have done three things in the context of the investigation and the concept they have created: they have looked at their documents internally, they have heard and heard and they have used the information they have received from the Ministry. I sent it to you in full. You will therefore have to discuss this further with the researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u337	In conclusion, Mr Omtzigt. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u338	I would ask the government to tell us on its own whether there was a discussion on 4 or 5 June with the sg and dg in which the memo was on the table and whether it was then discussed with the then Secretary of State. Is that the case or not? That's what I'm asking the government. The answer is always hidden behind the report. That's happened before in this affair, and it all turned out not to be right. So I thought, "Let me just ask that question right now." Can I have the answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u339	Then you assume that I have information that I have not given or that is somehow available with us, but there is no such information. We shared everything with your room. We also ordered the investigation. And so I can give the answer: in that investigation, PwC drew the conclusion that PwC drew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u340	I have a quick question. The Secretary of State replied to questions from journalists that the memo Palmen actually didn't bring much news. In that sense, that was one of the signals. Can Madam Secretary of State explain why she said so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u341	Because that's what it is. There have been several times in the past when there have been problems with the allowances, with the childcare allowance. That started in 2009 with an opinion from the state attorney. We've already switched in the Chamber. That's the advice we shared here. There was the National Ombudsman's report. There were other moments when it also became apparent that there was a lot going on. Last but not least, the memo-Palms.........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u342	Look, by putting away the memo-Palms in this way, as one of the signals, it's actually said it's not really important. I was kind of angry about that and disappointed about it. I think it is good to conclude that when Mrs Palmen stepped into the engine room of the surcharges, she was horrified. She has had a number of conversations, and so she is the only one who has really seen from within what a terrible way of working that was. She has described this so well, with all the conclusions that were attached, that she actually said: "What is happening here is going against the rule of law. What's happening here can't be done at all. You appeal, when you should never do so." She wrote, "If you keep doing this, you're gonna have trouble with it, even with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Let me finish, because this is my final remark. Why is this different? All other actors, such as the National Ombudsman, but also the AP and even the House of Representatives, were deliberately misinformed. Mrs Palmen could not do that, and that is the characteristic difference. Mrs Palmen was the only one who had access to the situation and access to the people who worked there, who cooperated in this way of horribly treating our citizens. That was early 2017. That memo should have been followed. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State not to see this as one of the many signals, but as an extremely important signal and unlike the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u343	I agree with you that, at the time that memo was written, it was in 2017 that of course should have given rise to work, because the fact that it didn't go any further didn't increase, didn't lead to it being solved at that time at the root of those problems with the supplements. So I very much agree with you there. I would like to keep saying that it is important to know that there have been signals before and that we have missed them too. I am in favour of this, not because it affects what has happened or the value of all the work that has been done, but because we have to realise together that at many more moments something should have been done about this very serious problem. So that was earlier than in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u344	Is that the end of your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u345	I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u346	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. Is 45 minutes of suspension enough? I can see that it is. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. Then we'll start with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u347	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews, the second term of office. I'll inform the MPs that the remaining time will be made known on the well-known bell. If you spend more minutes, it will go off with future budgets. If you have more time, it will go with you to future budgets. It's a very fair system. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u348	Mr. Chairman. Is the time including the third term or is that a separate time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u349	There's a separate time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u350	Oh, thank God. Mr. Chairman. I told you yesterday, we're heading for an outright energy disaster. The gas price is sky-high. Yesterday we talked about €100, but now the gas price is ticking the €160. The PVV has warned about this before: stop exporting our gas from Groningen; we will soon have to buy back our own gas for a lot of money. That is the case now. If only we hadn't exported so much and saved more, we wouldn't have had such a big problem right now. Mr. Chairman. TNO already counted us for 550,000 households in energy poverty. With current prices there will be much more. As far as we are concerned, the Minister must intervene now. The four tens of the General Political Reviews are not enough. The estimates are that the energy bill can rise to up to €900. Other countries will intervene. They're pretty solid. Italy with 3 billion, which means that citizens have lost 40% less. They're freezing the energy bill for three months. France freezes the energy bill for six months and gives six million families an energy voucher of €250. Belgium applies a social rate and Spain lowers VAT. All these countries, all those Member States, are acting and this minister wants to talk, discuss, analyse, send letters and a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u351	May I ask the Chamber to be a little quieter? Mr Van Dijck has the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u352	Maybe I can give the Minister a boost in the right direction. With Princess Day, 6.8 billion in additional climate spending was announced. The PVV wants to use 3 billion of these to reduce the energy bill by €375 per household. It's a good cover, because it's reserved. It's not legally required, so it's still freely available. The climate should wait a while. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy prices are rising, making the energy bill priceless for many people;]] [[calls on the government to use 3 billion of additional climate spending to reduce energy costs for households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u353	Mr. Chairman. Next move. The PVV wants to use the landlord's tax to reduce the rents for families and to give the housing corporations more space to build. As we've seen, they barely build anything. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the landlord's tax and to use these funds to reduce the rents and the construction of social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u354	The PVV continues to find it scandalous how our pensioners are treated. The simple fact that pension assets have doubled in ten years from 800 billion to 1 700 billion and pensions have not been indexed in all this time is not to be explained. That's pure stealing. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to adjust the rate of calculation to a more real rate of calculation, which is more appropriate to the multiannual return of pension funds and thus avoids reductions and allows indexing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u355	Finally. I haven't heard about it in this house, but we're also in an asylum crisis. The COAs are bulging out again. We were able to see it yesterday. Every week more than 1,000 people rejoice in our country with an asylum application. May I remind the honourable Members that Dr Jan van de Beek, in his report, calculated that every asylum seeker costs us EUR 1 million. The cabinet didn't want to calculate that, but a thousand asylum seekers a week means we're pumping 1 billion a week out of here. And then all be pathetic about purchasing power, pensions, the shortage of homes, the pressure on care and so on, while at the same time pumping EUR 1 billion a week to asylum seekers. How hypocritical do you want it? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to immediately close the borders for all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u356	Mr. Chairman. We face major challenges: security, defence, delayed maintenance of our infrastructure and the sustainability of our economy. That calls for large investments. The financial space we have, we need to make smart use of. I heard the Minister enthusiastically talk about the idea of a recovery fund, but he did refer to the European Emergency Fund, while we should also really look at how we can shape investments in the Netherlands to solve problems that we cannot move forward. But we will talk about that in the near future. Since the General Political Reviews there seems to have been a new problem. With the Hermans motion, the Chamber has previously released EUR 0.5 billion for the reduction of the energy bill, but energy prices are rising. That's worrying. We need to prevent households and businesses from falling over simply because energy prices are blowing through the roof. That was also an important issue in this debate, Chamberwide. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy prices are rising very rapidly;]] [[points out that this should prevent households from getting into financial difficulties and companies from falling down;]] [[calls on the government to identify the causes of the sharp rise in energy prices and the short- and long-term effects of rising energy prices for households and businesses;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the Hermans motion, to come forward with proposals in the short term to protect households and businesses from this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Heinen, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Grinwis, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Stoffer, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van Raan and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u357	Finally, Mr President. In politics, we often disagree about things. But I also appreciate that, despite these differences, we can also agree and that we have been able to continue the optimistic course that we used during the General Political Reviews, including in the Financial Reviews. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u358	Thank you, Mr. Heinen. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the directors for answering our questions. I agree somewhat with the VVD that optimism has been continued, but it was different. If you were talking about abolishing the landlord's tax, for which there is a majority in the election programmes, or if you are looking at the increase in the tax on profits, so the fairer taxation of capital in our country, then I often heard the words "integrally" in the coalition parties. "We're going to look at it integrally." That means as much as: we are working on it among ourselves in spaces other than this plenary. And: we'll get back to you as soon as we get out. Well, that gives us a different atmosphere, doesn't it? That is why I will continue to make proposals to abolish the landlord's tax, abolish the corporation tax and regain control of our housing. But I will also try to push the parties that are now working on each other in the right direction. I have two motions for that. One is heading towards the formation table, I hope. I have heard the Secretary of State for Finance say when it comes to taxation that he shares my analysis that the taxation of capital and labour is somewhat distorted in our country. You can actually determine that. I think a majority in this Chamber is in favour of pushing the formation in the right direction. Hence my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the capacity inequality in the Netherlands is very high and that it has recently proved to be much higher than was assumed for a long time;]] [[Whereas the number of millionaires in our country has increased in recent years, as well as the number of people who have to go to the food bank, while hundreds of thousands of people with jobs are also struggling to make ends meet;]] [[whereas the tax on capital in the Netherlands is below the EU average and the tax on labour is above that;]] [[points out that capital above one million must be taxed more heavily and that the tax on labour should be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u360	In addition, I have a motion, Mr. Chairman. That of course concerns energy prices. I am pleased that we have been able to make a statement on this issue in Parliament, but also that the cabinet has said that it is already looking into it. I think the news that at least something is going to happen for many people is already offering some relief. I have also mentioned some more structural problems and some unfair aspects of energy taxation in our country. I would like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas prices have increased enormously and that many countries are taking measures to reduce this price increase for households;]] [[noting that some 550,000 Dutch low-income households already live in energy poverty, because they have a far too high energy bill and live in a poorly isolated home;]] [[Whereas the tax rate on natural gas paid by households in the Netherlands, up to 170,000 m, is much higher than the rates above;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to address energy poverty in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I should like to make a brief comment, also because I have already spoken a great deal in my first term. As a beginner I have written extremely long motions and that is always clumsy. I should have known. Mr. Chairman. I found the debate refreshing yesterday. I also said yesterday that I was hoping for a debate like we had in the General Political Reviews. I can see that we have had a good talk about the challenges facing the Netherlands: the climate crisis, the education crisis and the housing crisis. There is a broad palette of parties that supports that here. It was also a good debate on how to invest in the future. The different tastes in it have become very clear. In this respect, therefore, I thought it was an extremely substantive debate. That's really nice. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is a member of a leading group for the greening of exports, the next conference of which will take place in the Netherlands in November;]] [[noting that the Chamber adopted the Sjoerdsma/Van Ojik motion to align climate policy instruments with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that the Court adopted the Slootweg/Sneller motion to promote renewable energy in developing countries through export credit insurance;]] [[noting that export credit insurance is provided for activities contributing to global warming;]] [[whereas it is therefore important to agree internationally on the sustainability of export credit insurance;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to pursue international commitments to phase out export credit insurance for polluting activities in a manner that is responsible for developing countries, with better coverage for green projects in developing countries, and to report to the Court at the beginning of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hammelburg, Mr Snels, Mr Gündoğan and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u362	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber adopted the Van Raan/Wassenberg motion to include broad welfare indicators in the policy cycle;]] [[Whereas while indicators are mentioned in the Millions Note, there is still a lack of inter-structure and link to policy instruments;]] [[Considering the importance of achieving prosperity in a broad sense rather than merely economic growth in the budgetary and accountability systems;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal on how broad welfare indicators are structured and clearly placed at the heart of the Millions' Note, budgets and annual reports, including the core set of broad welfare indicators developed by the Planning Offices, and to discuss this with the Chamber for Accountability Day in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hammelburg, Mr Van Raan, Mr Snels, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Grinwis and Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u364	Thank you, Mr. Hammelburg. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on the characterisation of this debate. I thought it was a nice debate in itself and I also liked it. I like the new colleagues, too, but you're ultimately in politics to change things. At least that's what I'm in politics for, to accomplish things. However, I think we have to note that there has been little change in the budget in these General Financial Reviews. In this sense, therefore, a great deal has been passed on to individual budgets. There have been General Financial Reviews where proposals from the opposition parties have been taken up. I have to say that this has not happened now. There have been four motions tabled by PvdA and GroenLinks at the General Reviews and they are all still in place. That is what we are going to do with the budgets. In particular, we find the housing budget really undervalued. We really need to do more about the housing shortage than this cabinet intends to do. That discussion is moving more. It is far from voting time, but I would like to make that point. We have made proposals for purchasing power and for improving education. Finally, we have made proposals for climate change. These motions are all there, and that commitment will also be made to that budget. Ultimately, on that basis, we will decide whether we support the budgets. But it has sometimes been the case that we were able to draw that conclusion from the Financial Reviews. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the energy bill. That is the big thing that concerns the people at home now. Chamber and cabinet have said that something must be done about this. But I also think this is the place to give a little direction to what needs to be done. I have already done so in the case of the Minister's interruption, but I also have a motion which has a wide range of supporters. We have a lot of parties in the Chamber and so there can be a lot underneath. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy bill is likely to increase by many hundreds of euros a year;]] [[Whereas this has not been taken into account in the expected purchasing power for next year;]] [[calls on the cabinet to compensate for at least half of the higher energy bill on average and to present a proposal as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Alkaya, Mr Azarkan, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Tony van Dijck, Mr Ephraim and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u366	I really hope that this motion will also be used as a guide to the forthcoming discussions, because a few tens of thousands of people have absolutely nothing, especially if they are in a drafty house or even if they have trouble getting around at the end of the month. Then it is really necessary to take substantial steps. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u367	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u368	Thank you, Chairman, and thank you for answering the questions. I welcome a number of answers, including the commitment to the letter on bringing forward the budgets and proposals, which we will then discuss. The cabinet indicates that it is deeply injured and that some things are indeed up to the forming parties. I understand that, of course, but patience isn't exactly my strong suit. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to move quickly on to the dossiers that I and several other speakers have expressly called for. In injury time you do not have to do some things, but some things you should not let. That's what they said. The energy bill is indeed an alarming example. The agreements we have now made are good, I think, and I look forward to the third-term treatment when we are going to talk about solutions. I've got three motions. Probably too long, and I'm gonna get started on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the framework for financial relations between public authorities is laid down in Article 2 Financial Ratio Act and Article 108, third paragraph of the Municipal Act;]] [[Whereas Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, which requires the State to indicate how local authorities should cover financial consequences arising from government policy intentions and Article 108 (3) of the Local Government Act, which states that where there are joint management tasks, the State should not at present be required to reimburse them for the costs borne by municipalities;]] [[Whereas, in order to enforce these Articles, the position of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations as a system responsible for the decentralised administration should be strengthened;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down detailed rules for compliance with the two laws, so that it can also be demonstrated and verifiable for the Chamber that these laws are being complied with;]] [[calls on the Government to have any legislative proposal affecting local authorities, such as job transfers, co-management tasks and regional divisions, co-signed by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and also by the Minister for Finance in the case of budget transfers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u369	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the areas of care and social security are subject to separate budgetary frameworks, as this collective expenditure is not fully determined by budgetary laws;]] [[Whereas the Court has a less clear view of the budgetary shifts within the framework of care and social security and is thus less able to carry out its control function properly;]] [[Whereas the Court has an important role to play as a citizen's representative and should therefore have a clear view of this expenditure;]] [[Whereas the Council of State recommends examining how the Court can better exercise its budgetary right to premium-funded expenditure on health and social security, and whether this is possible by explaining the budgetary rules governing these expenditures in the Sustainable Public Finance Act (the Court Act);]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in line with the opinion of the Council of State, how to clarify the rules of the Court of Justice's exercise of budget law and the Court's right to information on the partial framework of care and social security, and to examine whether it is best to do so by amending the Court of Justice's Law or whether other options are better suited for that purpose, so that the Parliament can assess more directly budgetary changes in social security and care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u370	I'm over my time, but I'll just accept that. Final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an increasing European debate on the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact;]] [[Considering that reform of the Stability and Growth Pact could have a major impact on the monetary balance in the European Union, including with regard to the indebtedness of individual Member States;]] [[Whereas budgetary rules are essential for the reliability, stability and strength of the European Union;]] [[Whereas the Dutch position on the reforms of the Stability and Growth Pact should be sufficiently developed before negotiations begin;]] [[The Council of State, which is also the Dutch auditor of compliance with the European budgetary rules, decides to ask for information on the possibilities for reforming the Stability and Growth Pact, defining the Dutch interest, specifying the implications for the European treaties and identifying the advantages and disadvantages of different political options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Heinen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We certainly had a nice debate yesterday about the major challenges we face and the differences between the political parties. Today it was a bit more about a current problem: the high energy bill. That too is part of politics. If there are actual problems, they must be solved and the cabinet will work with them. Mr. Chairman. In the last two days, we have talked not only about the 2022 budget, but also about how the budget is designed and how the Chamber is informed about it, about what that budget means, how important it is for the way in which we make policies. That had two components. The first was: isn't it smarter to present that budget, including Tax Plan, in the spring? The Minister then undertook to send a letter with variants and dilemmas to the Chamber. That is a rather revolutionary step, because that means something for Prince's Day, for example. I believe that, when that letter comes to the Chamber, we are going to look carefully at how we can conduct this debate in the Chamber, and I think that the President of the Chamber himself has a role to play in this. The second debate dealt with broad prosperity, the second operation combatable system. This is actually about the integration of financial and non-financial information. The Chamber has long wanted to take bigger steps. The Court of Auditors thinks so, the Council of State thinks so, but it doesn't succeed. However, I would like to give the cabinet another example of TenneT, Triodos, NS, Akzo, PostNL, the large business community, which we in this Chamber often discuss quite critically. They are so far beyond the government in this area! It should be the government that not only makes policies on the basis of cash liabilities and financial flows, but can also indicate what we really want to achieve by spending 340 billion that we do every year. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to receiving the letter from the Minister of Finance, and I will continue to drag and pull this debate until we finally get a modernisation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u372	There is one question from Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u373	For the record, will Mr Snels now abolish Princess Day? Let me get this straight, because that's what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u374	No, Prince's Day is, I believe, even in the Constitution, but then we won't have the presentation of the Million's Note on Prince's Day anymore. So we have to think about how the choreography should take shape from spring to Prinsjesdag. That is quite revolutionary in itself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u375	Thank you, Mr. Quick. We were discussing which article it is, but it is indeed in the Constitution. Is it Article 69? Let's look it up. Mr Omtzigt was also right to say that it was an external date. I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mrs Van Huffelen and Mr Hoekstra and Mr Vijlbrief for their answers. As far as I am concerned, we are looking back at a nice, substantive debate yesterday. Today it was indeed more about energy prices and current care. In my opinion, as a Chamber, we show that we not only share this concern widely, but also turn it into a common statement to act as a cabinet. So we look forward to the actions of the cabinet. At the same time, I agree with Mr Nijboer that the half-full glass of the General Political Reviews has not become much fuller. At the same time: whoever doesn't honor the little one et cetera. Mr. Chairman. I brought you two motions. I'll just recite that for a second. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that most recent research data on non-use of surcharges date from 2016;]] [[noting that those dates showed that 250 000 paymentable households do not make use of the care allowance and about one in six paymentable households do not make use of the child-related budget;]] [[Whereas falling public confidence and fear of recovery due to the surcharge scandal, as well as changes in phasing-out routes of surcharges, may have had an impact on the application of surcharges in recent years;]] [[considers it undesirable for many households to miss benefits which they are entitled to and which are intended to help them make a better living;]] [[Calls on the Government to update the investigation into the non-use of surcharges in order to provide an adequate picture thereof, including the possible impact of the surcharge scandal on the application of surcharges by payment recipients;]] [[calls on the Government to make an additional effort to reduce non-use while the payment system is in place by taking a more active approach to payment recipients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Alkaya, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u377	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf aspires to be a "lift for change" by contributing to solving societal challenges, including housing;]] [[noting that there are housing projects of the Rijksvoastgoedbedrijf which are not built according to needs, i.e. affordable purchase and rental houses, but where the vast share of houses to be built is for the more expensive segment;]] [[Whereas the housing market is on fire, outsiders are at risk of falling permanently out of business and there is a strong need for the construction of affordable housing;]] [[Whereas the Housing Impulse is conditional on at least 50% of the housing to be built being affordable rental or purchase houses;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that the housing projects in which the State real estate company is involved as a land owner, as well as the Housing Impulse, require at least 50% of the housing to be developed to be made up of affordable rental and purchase houses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Stoffer, Mr Eppink and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u378	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u379	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals. Before I get emails or tweets about it again, a small correction: it is Article 65 in the Constitution. I call Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u380	The chair is very wet, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna wait a second for the fluid to go away. Thanks for cleaning up. Mr President, thank you. Thank you for answering the questions and all the wonderful references to literature and so on. I have four motions. After that, I hope to have some time. I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas policies should always increase prosperity in the broadest sense of the word;]] [[Whereas many proposals are unclear as to how they contribute to broad prosperity;]] [[noting that a scale leap in the application of the broad concept of prosperity in the budgetary cycle is actively advocated by the Court of Auditors and the Council of State;]] [[calls on the Government to extend Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act to include a provision that all proposals are accompanied by an explanation of their contribution to broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan and Snels.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u381	Knowers recognize last year's motion in this. This time Mr. Snels is in. That's good news, I think. So he is a co-signator for those who doubt it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has announced EUR 6.8 billion for the climate for the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Millions Note, in addition to the budgetary impact of policies, the impact on national greenhouse gas emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the Climate and Energy Exploration will only come after the key decision-making moment;]] [[calls on the government to give the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the Climate and Energy Exploration the same status in the budgetary cycle as the Macro Economic Recognition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Hammelburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-96]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u382	Mr President, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a statement of expenditure on nitrogen and climate was included in the Annex to the Millions Note this year;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the Court receives an overview of all expenditure and revenue lost from 2019 to 2025 for the extraction or use of fossil fuels, including through state and policy participations, including non-green hydrogen and biomass, and to include this overview in the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u383	Mr. Chairman. I have one more point. The attentive viewer will probably immediately have noticed that Party for the Animals has spoken a bit shorter this year during the General Financial Reviews. I see the Minister nodding. A lot of parts and subjects have not been discussed, but there is a lot to tell about. Fortunately, there is a beautiful book called The Ministry for the Future. It's a wonderful combination of fiction and non-fiction. The non-fiction part is about IPCC science, about climate change, and the fiction part is about a ministry in the future, around 2040, trying to act with always nice references to how it could have acted if we had addressed it around this time. I would like to offer this to the Minister, in order to compensate for the lesser number of tips I have been able to give him in my speaking time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u384	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a lot of motions. That is what the Minister will probably understand, because we had a lot of questions. We partially converted it into motions. I'll read them to you. The first motion concerns the plan for the re-launch of the guilder. We believe that it is very important, given the blow-up of the ECB balance sheet, for the Court to take note of this. That plan exists. That is what Minister Dijsselbloem said in 2014. So that's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that both the responses of the Minister of Finance during his contribution to the General Financial Reviews and the statements of his predecessor Dijsselbloem of 2014 show that there is a plan for the re-introducing of the guilder;]] [[Whereas it is important to share this plan with the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to share this plan with the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u386	Next move. We would like an indication from the government of the cost of the lockdowns. That really doesn't have to be very precise. I understand that you can fish all kinds of things from the report, but we think that indication is very desirable. So that's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lockdowns have had a huge financial impact on our economy and on the wallets of the Dutch;]] [[Whereas it is important to identify the financial consequences of these lockdowns;]] [[asks the government to find out what the lockdowns cost the Dutch economy and the Dutch as an individual,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u387	Then there's our inflation motion, the inflation rate. We appreciate that the Minister is going to ask the CBS to look into this, but we would also be very pleased if the Chamber instructed that house prices should be included in the inflation rate. So that's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that house prices are currently not included in inflation rates;]] [[Whereas house prices are of great importance to consider when talking about inflation, since the Dutch houses have a large share of the economy;]] [[whereas Dutch house prices have increased enormously in recent years;]] [[calls on the government to allow CBS to include house prices (and also retroactively) in the calculation of inflation rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u388	And house prices are, of course, also a large proportion of people's spending. My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cash is still seen and used by many people as a daily means of payment;]] [[noting that many sectors benefit from the use of cash;]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has put pressure on its use;]] [[Whereas in other countries there are already noises in favour of the abolition of cash;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that cash remains a legal means of payment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u389	Fifth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that China is the world's first country to introduce a social credit system;]] [[noting that such a system grossly infringes privacy, physical integrity and freedom;]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has led to an increasing number of infringements of the above-mentioned points;]] [[calls on the Government to rule out the introduction of a social credit system or similar system in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u390	The sixth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that there are voices within the World Economic Forum, the UN and other supranational organisations calling for the introduction of a so-called Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC);]] [[whereas such a digital currency places power over the financial system even further outside the Dutch hands;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude the introduction of a CBDC or similar currency in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u391	The last motion is a "quarter of Kok" motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that petrol prices are currently higher than €2;]] [[whereas many Dutch people depend on a car for their work;]] [[Whereas a reduction in charges is welcome at a time of financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the government to abolish Kok's quarter as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u392	In order to understand this motion on the digital euro, I have the following question. Those developments are going on and I am concerned about that too. I am concerned that this is not being tested democratically enough and that unelected technocrats are making such far-reaching decisions. Is Mr Van Houwelingen opposed to the European nature of this and to the fact that it is happening on a European scale? Or is he also against a digital guilder? For example, Sweden has itself introduced a digital currency, the eKrona. Are you against that, too? Or is it about the European character?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u393	Thanks for the question. It's a good question. Our main objection is, of course, the European nature. That actually makes it not done for us. But we would certainly not argue in favour of doing this in the Netherlands, for the reason I have just mentioned. The sting is of course mainly in that European character, but of course we do not want to have it in the Netherlands either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u394	Mr. Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u395	Okay, so it's choosing between cash and commercial digital money. The Chamber has already spoken on several occasions about cash, and the cash remains, so I think the motion for a resolution will be adopted unanimously again. And we already have digital money, but it's only from commercial banks. That is the choice that the Forum for Democracy presents us with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u396	We do have digital money now. But digital currency is of course something else. That could mean you're getting completely phased out and completely out of control of your money, and everything is digital. Then there is no more cash. We are therefore fundamentally opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u397	I have a question about the fourth motion. It says that we are meddling in how we determine inflation. There is a lot to say, also scientifically, to include house prices; I agree with that. But that is really the task of the CBS. It becomes very dangerous when political parties start to define how to measure inflation. We shouldn't be doing that here with all of us. Isn't that what's going wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u398	Thank you for that question, too. I understand your point, but this seems to us to be a political issue. I would then like to ask Mr Nijboer if he does not agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u399	As an economist, I feel a lot like that. To be honest, I also see... It's going to happen, because De Nederlandsche Bank is working on it. So I think it's gonna happen. I think it is only dangerous if we say: well, don't put the excise duty on diesel in it, the house price, and the rents in another way. I find it very logical to ask questions like this when we have a conversation with De Nederlandsche Bank or with the CPB, as often happens. But to determine "this is how the inflation rate is determined" by motion? Then as politicians, you're just gonna influence statistics, and that seems really bad. That is why I think that is such a bad idea, when I feel a great deal about the substance of the idea. But that's why the PvdA isn't going to support such a motion. I do not think that politicians should set inflation rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u400	I understand your point, but for us it's unthinkable that it's not there, which is why we're coming up with this motion. But I also understand your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u401	Mr Azarkan has been standing a bit longer, but... Mr. Ommzigt, Mr. Azarkan will let you go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u402	I thought: I am just saying that there is one institution that has been trying for 15 years to get the house price in inflation rates, and that is the European Central Bank. So far, the countries themselves have not responded to this too much. In itself, it is a very sensible suggestion, which has actually been wandering around for ten years. But I think the speaker has a bit of a problem with saying those three words, so I thought I'd just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u403	Thank you. Mr. Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u404	It's not really a question, but thank you for the comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u405	Still, about the motion on the return of Kok's quarter. Do you mean... Two hundred and twenty-seven more. Actually Forum says: the quarter to be returned is about 11 cents. Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u406	You're talking about euro cents now? The quarter was expressed in guilders. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u407	If we're going to wait until we get the guilder back, as you wish, and then we're going to abolish it, then it's going to be a prayer without end, I guess. I'm just trying to see what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u408	In euro cents it would be 11 euro cents or so, yes. You've seen that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u409	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u410	Thank you. Volt would not be Volt if we were not able to add something European to the debate. That's why I have two questions. Not only the Netherlands, but the whole EU suffers from gas prices. Before I move, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to make an active commitment to a joint European action on the rising gas prices that each Member State is currently facing. And can the Minister inform us as a Chamber: when is the EU toolbox somewhat round? This is, of course, not a solution that I want to go to for the short term, but for the longer term. For example, in that toolbox, suggestions are made to jointly buy in gas and build up reserves, making us all less vulnerable to what is happening now. So learning for the future. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas not only the Netherlands, but the whole of the EU has problems with the supply and price of gas;]] [[Whereas this affects households and citizens throughout the EU, in particular those with low socio-economic status;]] [[Whereas the European Commission is working on a toolbox of measures;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to increase together at EU level to minimise rising gas prices and to inform the Court as soon as possible when the EU toolbox is ready,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Hammelburg, Mr Grinwis, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u411	It is indeed a novel, because for the first time I have signed a motion from Volt. I liked the General Financial Reviews. I believe that we have come closer together in the Chamber and that we have also come closer to the cabinet as a Chamber. You can see that poldering sometimes works very well. Madam President. I'm just like yesterday in spare time. That's why I'm starting my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses its opposition to the IMF's proposal to include the first house in box 3 in its entirety;]] [[calls on the cabinet to oppose this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reception of asylum seekers in the region is financed from the external trade and development cooperation budget;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to finance this reception, as well as reception in the region, as long as there is still asylum reception in the Netherlands, purely from the budget of Development Cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is insufficient transparency regarding the financial support for NGOs by the Dutch authorities;]] [[invites the Cabinet to provide an accessible overview of NGOs receiving grants from public funds and to share this overview with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eppink, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-107]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-108]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u412	Finally, the next motion. I've got 45 seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands belongs to the coalition of eight Member States to maintain the fiscal framework of the Stability and Growth Pact;]] [[supports the maintenance of fiscal criteria within the Stability and Growth Pact;]] [[supports the coalition of eight Member States to which the Netherlands belongs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u414	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u415	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to one motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court has been informed of major deficiencies in the management, maintenance and replacement and renovation of the state infrastructure;]] [[Whereas the state of the infrastructure and the delay of maintenance in more and more places may lead to disruptions and costly acute maintenance measures and to restrictions on the use of roads, locks, bridges and railways;]] [[Whereas there is a wave of necessary replacement and renovation;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[identify the additional resources required up to 2030 per year to minimise the management, maintenance and replacement and renovation of state-owned infrastructure, taking into account sufficient manufacturing capacity of Rijkswaterstaat and ProRail;]] [[provide insight into the financial needs of the delayed maintenance as soon as possible;]] [[and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budget handling of IenW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Geurts, Mr Grinwis, Mr Eppink, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Houwelingen, Mr Ephraim, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Heinen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya, Mr Snels, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Van Raan and Mr Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u417	Well, that's a hell of a signature, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u418	Yeah, and I've got a few minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u419	That too!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u420	But also thank you for all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u421	Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion because I have co-signed some of my colleagues' motions on energy prices. I think everyone agrees that we really need to prevent people from turning off the heat and getting off the gas. I know that this is a wish of the cabinet, but it really goes a little far to do it this way. I have signed with my fellow Members when it comes to pensions. Mr Den Haan is about to come up with that. I thank the rulers for their reply. I must say that I had to chuckle a bit when Minister Hoekstra said: all your wishes, I am not a mailbox! He didn't just say it's not paradise here. Here, by the way, it is a paradise for people who love politics. Mr President, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u423	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u424	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to do this. The disadvantage of a single group is that you sometimes run from one debate to another. I understood what the Minister's answer was to my questions concerning the raising of some of the rules that we were going to put in the transition period. However, a motion on this point; you cannot blame me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pension of pensioners has not been indexed for more than 10 years;]] [[Considering that workers have improved 20% in purchasing power since 2012 and that pensioners are down 1%;]] [[noting that, as a result of rising interest rates, the coverage rates of pension funds stood at 110% on average in September;]] [[noting that this is the highest rate in three years;]] [[Whereas the pension agreement provides for pension funds to be allowed to index to the new pension system in the transition period at a coverage rate of 105%;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to bring forward the rules that will apply during the transition period for one year, so that pension funds may index at a coverage rate of 105% from 1 January 2022 instead of 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u425	Mr. Chairman. Just two minutes? It's gonna be fast reading! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 1 billion people are starving and that number is rising over the next few decades if nothing is done to prevent food shortages;]] [[whereas we have to keep enough farmers, growers and growers in the Netherlands in the coming decades, not because we MUST feed the world, but because we can HELP the world to feed;]] [[Whereas there are many farmers, growers and gardeners who want to quit voluntarily;]] [[calls on the government to put food security first and stop the billion-dollar plans to force farmers to expropriate or to take away their license and only to use money to buy out farmers who want to quit voluntarily, and to reserve the billions released to invest in the care, police, education and purchasing power of citizens, so that our beautiful rural landscape can be managed by our farmers, growers and growers, food security is guaranteed, care, police and education can invest in quality and citizens can continue to pay their bills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has plans and/or ideas to force farmers to expropriate and, in extreme cases, may also want to take away permits;]] [[the direct and indirect employment of 600,000 people in the agricultural sector by farmers, growers and growers;]] [[that farmers, growers and gardeners manage and maintain our landscape and receive little compensation for it, so cheap earth dusters are;]] [[that farmers, growers and growers in rural areas promote tourism and thereby contribute to the local, regional and rural economy;]] [[that farmers, growers and growers play a major role in the social cohesion of rural areas;]] [[that farmers can make affordable and locally produced food for everyone;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to assess the (social) costs incurred by citizens if there are no more farmers, growers and growers who can take care of the above-mentioned matters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-113]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u426	He wants to drink coffee again. That's what we did yesterday. That was really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u427	Yes, we did drink coffee yesterday and we agreed not to deal with each other like that anymore on social media. I'd say look what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u428	And then today I thought, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u429	Then we're gonna have to go back to coffee. But that's not what my question was about. My question concerns the following. The Party for Animals is also a party that stands for peasant interests. I wonder, I know Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u430	Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u431	Van der Plas, too, as someone who supports science. We talked about that, too. We support science. If there is one red thread, when it comes to livestock farming, most scientific reports say that livestock in the world, but also in the Netherlands, must shrink, if you want to do something about the climate, about food security, and you name it all. Then you have to start shrinking the livestock. My question is whether Mrs Van der Plas agrees with those scientific reports. Or can she call me four reports that say: what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u432	First of all, I have never said in my life that livestock should grow. I don't know where Mr Van Raan gets that. I've never said that people should eat more meat. I can't agree with that, no, indeed. I have said this before, but now it is going to be an agricultural debate. I'm fine with that, but I don't think it's the whole idea. For every cow, chicken or pig you get out of here, three come back elsewhere in the world. You say, "Yes, but the livestock must shrink worldwide," but the world population grows to 2050 to 9-10 billion people, and those people all have to eat. There are countries in the world where they only start eating meat and where the consumption of meat, or at least animal protein, will increase, reports report. There are countries in the world where people are malnourished. That's not only that they're too thin, but that they just don't have enough nutrients. These people are very much in the interest of animal proteins, because they are absorbed more quickly into the body. There are organisations in those countries that say precisely: those children, hungry, must have animal protein. If Mr Van Raan says we shouldn't, I understand, because he's from the Party for Animals, but then I'd like to ask him how we're going to help those people feed. There are people in the world who have been eating rice or beans for 40 years. If they can finally have a piece of goat meat, because they have a small couple of goats or some pigs are kept around, then those people are very happy, but apparently Mr Van Raan is not allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u433	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u434	What is being said here does require some kind of analysis. It begins by saying 'Mr Van Raan is turning it into an agricultural debate'. Well, that's not true at all. Mrs van der Plas has introduced a number of motions on the role of agriculture. My question focuses on the fact that we both agree with science. There are only reports that state that the food transition and, specifically, feeding those 9 billion people can only be done if many more people start eating vegetable food. So those cattle have to shrink. That has nothing to do with Mr. Van Raan. That has nothing to do with the Animal Party. That's what science tells us. I would ask Mrs van der Plas to give me four or five reports which say that these livestock should actually grow, because that is the result of what Mrs van der Plas proposes: to maintain exports and to endorse that is a good idea. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u435	Thank you. I would like to ask you to limit it to the debate we are having, however fascinating the interaction between the two of you may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u436	Mr President, I am not talking about agriculture here. That's what Mrs. Van der Plas does. Then you can't blame me or say that I'm going to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u437	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u438	Mr Van Raan says "I'm not talking about agriculture," but the agricultural sector is just an economic sector that brings money to bear. We're talking finance here. When we talk about catering entrepreneurs or other entrepreneurs, I assume that we can also talk about agricultural entrepreneurs. Or shouldn't I? However, just a few more moments about vegetable food, and then I'm going to read out my final motion. Firstly, I am not saying that everything must grow, more animals and more meat. I never said that. You never heard me say that. Then there's the vegetable. Look, to meet the protein requirement, you have to eat a lot more beans. The amount of protein you take by eating a plate of beans is not equal to the amount of protein you take by eating a steak. I'll mention beans, but it could be anything vegetable. More beans means more land use.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u440	More land use means more emissions. This is a very interesting and interesting discussion that we should not be having here, but it is much more stuck than Mr. Van Raan knows, I think. But we'll have another cup of coffee about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u441	Very nice. Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u442	Okay. Apologies for this interruption, which was certainly interesting. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2018 the Empire agreed with the Interprovincial Consultation and the Union of Water Councils on the standardisation of the Province Fund and the Municipal Fund on the basis of the principle of "up the stairs together, down the stairs together";]] [[noting that those agreements state that if the Empire is given room for additional expenditure, this also leads to additional financial space for municipalities and provinces, i.e.: up the stairs together;]] [[invites the Cabinet to comply with the commitments made on this dossier and to apply all the files of the IPO and the UvW and the standardisation arrangements, so that municipalities and provinces have sufficient resources to perform their decentralised tasks properly and citizens do not have to be driven at extra high costs by increasing, for example, the IZB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u443	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the directors for their answers and for their lucky exposés and colleagues for the pleasant debate we have had over the last two days. Everyone has been able to ride their stickhorses, and that of course belongs in these halls. Few will be surprised that I stand in the interest of the Netherlands for lower taxes, for the interest of SMEs, for as little state intervention as possible in the freedom of citizens, for stopping large transfers in the euro area and, above all, for defending private property. At the same time, we must be warm and decent to the vulnerable in society. Fortunately, this has also been discussed in the whole debate on energy prices. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, and I can tell they're very short. I now have the luxury of 4 minutes 21 seconds, but I am programmed to cry so much that I can do three a minute, that they are extremely short. First of all... [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to declare that expropriation of property, more specifically land, land and livestock, will under no circumstances take place against the will of the rightful farmers and that the property rights of all farmers will be respected at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u444	I don't have to talk so fast now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the Minister of Finance to provide the Court as soon as possible with an overview of all financial risks incurred by the State of the Netherlands, directly or indirectly as shareholder of De Nederlandsche Bank, if for any reason Italy should be forced to leave the euro giving an overview including but not limited to guarantees, loans, grants, grants, buy-back programmes, TARGET2 balances, as well as temporary auxiliary funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim, Mr Eppink and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u445	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet and, in particular, the Minister of Finance to make every effort with regard to the Recovery Resilience Fund to prevent this one-off facility from becoming more permanent and at all times to combat the emergence of a transfer union in the euro,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim, Mr Eppink and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. I share that optimism that I see here a little less. Next year we have almost 4% growth. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates ever, but, as it stands, purchasing power will decline by about 2% to 3%. Hundreds of thousands of young people can't find a place to live. A number of people will have to put the thermostat down significantly, because they will no longer be able to pay the energy bill. The cabinet should explain what choices have been made to bring about so much private wealth that so many households have to make that kind of choice. I believe that in this Chamber too we are paying too much attention to the people who are going to be there, rather than the people who are not going to be there. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tax subsidies for electric cars were mainly directed towards the middle class and upper class and that, according to the General Court, the subsidies had no significant impact on CO emissions;]] [[noting that the government does subsidise driving expensive electric cars but that hundreds of thousands of Dutch people can hardly or not pay the energy bill;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a letter of amendment to reverse the increase of EUR 600 million for electric cars and use it for targeted relief of the energy note for families, e.g. by an annual increase in the tax reduction in the energy tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u447	The last thing in the motion is technical, Chairman. How weird is it that we're making extra money for the Tesla's and people who just need electricity to turn on the light or turn on the washing machine can't do that anymore. Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the number of information officers in the Rutte III cabinet period increased from 600 to 800;]] [[noting that for more than ten years the Chamber has been calling for moderation of the number of informers, for example in the Remkes/Bosma motion (2009);]] [[calls on the government to submit a proposal to the Chamber within three weeks to reduce the number of informers by 50 and to use the savings either for the general resources or for an additional think tank for the future of taxes and social security and all the relevant important details,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u448	Those details are important, and in the meantime, we know why. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u449	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to give the motions an appreciation, to answer a single question and also to deal with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u450	The next item is the second government term. I shall first give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u451	My final motions, on pieces Nos. 117 and 118 are co-signed by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u452	Fine, thank you. We will record this in this way. Then I give the floor to Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u453	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for the questions and comments and, of course, for the second-term motions. Here's what I want to do. I will start with a limited number of leftovers, then I will deal with one amendment and then the motions, to the extent that they fall primarily within my policy area. Then I will make a final comment. The four motions that remain before the Secretary of State I leave to them. Then the leftovers. That sounds more disrespectful than I mean, I say in particular in the direction of Mr Hammelburg. Because he was absolutely right: there was still one question left, namely "Can we expect a CO budget next year with Princess Day?'. The answer to this is that it is not possible for the PBL to determine this for all policies at the moment. In this way, the current CO figures will only appear in the climate and energy exploration of the PBL, which will be published in October. So I can't get up-to-date figures on the Millions Note. I'd like to see which things you could take with you to at least take another step in this. I'd like to take that assignment under the arm. But at least a CO budget on Princess Day is still a step too far at the moment, unless, of course, we take dramatic steps in the debate about when we have Princess Day at all. I would not suggest that we do so simply to make this possible, but I would at least like to promise Mr Hammelburg that I will come back to this. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments. The first amendment is by Mr Omtzigt. I've actually already given my appreciation of that: I have to advise against that. There were no other amendments. Then I'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u454	I have a question about the amendments, because they are several amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u455	Yeah, sorry, I'll do it all at once. Because they are amendments on all budgets. But I said, in the main, that I do not think this is the time for the outgoing cabinet to agree on a haircut for the communication staff in the various budgets. I don't think that's wise. I do not think that is the case with the Demissionary Cabinet either. That's what I've been trying to do. That applies to all budgets. It would be very ugly to say to the cabinet tomorrow: I thought it was a bad idea, but I found one lucky person with whom we're going to do it, so I'm going to judge Chamber. I hope that Mr Omtzigt can carry that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u456	So you advise against all the amendments that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u457	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u458	We would have liked to have known one, then we would have understood at least one discussion in the cabinet tomorrow. No. We have been saying here for a long time: we are not going to increase the number of informers. The cabinet has increased that. Parliamentary questions from the SP show that the number of informers has gone from 600 to 800 over the last four years. You can't cut it off in one go, because that's a mess. I think: if they can increase by 50 a year, they can also decrease by 50 a year. I do not see why this would be an impossible task for a cabinet or why a outgoing cabinet would not be able to do so. In fact, I had hoped that there would be a little more reasoning than: we are not going to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u459	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u460	I must nevertheless refer to my previous reply. In any case, I don't think this type of business is up to this cabinet right now. But I also think that you should study more broadly what is desirable, instead of saying now: it is quite logical that money should go off in the ministries. That is, of course, the spirit of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u461	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u462	I have already mentioned the example. We've got 800 informers. You can compare that with 575 employees of the House of Representatives. We have become a completely image-driven circus here in The Hague. I'm trying to reverse that a little bit. I have examples from ministries where there is a 30-day communication staff for 2 or 3 directors. Well, then it's not too much to ask for you to say, "Can we get some off?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u463	I also noticed, of course, that the Ministry of Finance is more or less dangling at the bottom of the list, but that is not the point. I think it is too short a time to go into this stage without an analysis and without knowing exactly what that means, to say 'in the short term money has to be paid off', something that also has human consequences. Moreover, I agree with Mr Omtzig that we could have a major debate together on the way in which we are all guided by messages that appear and by the imagery, but that is, in my view, a much broader problem. Then something like this could be an outcome. I believe that this applies to many more aspects of the profession that we all practice here in different roles. Then I'll be on the motions. The first motion is that in part No. 80. Of course, Mr Van Dijck is quite right: he has found a clear cover for this. That doesn't change the fact that I have to discourage the motion anyway. I saw that he himself had found Mr Wilders willing to sign the motion, which is not the case with the other motions. I noticed that, too. The Van Dijck motion in part No. 81, I must also advise against it. The landlord's tax has been reduced by 500 million in the General Political Reviews. The Van Dijck motion in part No. 82, with reference to the debate, I must also advise against it. The motion in part No. 83 I must also dissuade, with reference to various debates that the Prime Minister had with Mr Wilders. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I very much agree with that. I think it is sensible and I think it is in line with what I said in the first term. I would like to point out that I understand the motion in such a way that it is in line with the comments I have made. I have tried to give a little more detail on how we want to deal with this as a cabinet. The motion is, of course, a little bit more concise. Nor does it mean that we will be able to compensate everything and everyone in all cases. Nor does the motion ask for that, but I would simply like to draw attention to the comments I have made. I see Mr Heinen nodding, so if I may interpret the motion in this way, then we, as a cabinet, will proceed with speed. We were, of course, already working on that. Then there is Mr Alkaya's motion on item No. 86. What I am going to say about this motion is that there are more motions concerning the energy bill and the gas problem. I am going to ask for these motions to be held, at least until next week's debate and probably even until the cabinet is ready. If the proposers want to press, I must advise against the motions, in the light of the Heinen motion, which I have just given to the Chamber of Appeal. That with regard to the motion in part No. 86.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u464	I am looking at Mr Alkaya to see whether he wishes to continue his motion or not. Mr. Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u465	I supported Mr Heinen's motion. He's got judgment room. In addition, I have, of course, tried to give some direction to the discussions that will take place in the coming days. It would be weird if I held this motion. Depending on how the conversations are going and how they are going to be voted, we will assess what comes out of the conversations in the cabinet on its merits. That means I'm not gonna hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u466	All the understanding for that, but then I have to discourage the motion. That is what I am going to do with all the motions that take further steps on the energy bill, not because I disagree with the substance but for the simple reason that I do not think it is sensible at this point in time. And aside from the question of whether those pushes in the back are generally meant to help or trip you. We can discuss that again. Then the motion to part No. 88, by Mr Hammelburg. Although we look positively at this, I would like to ask you to hold it until the Spring Accountability Day, because the planning agencies are currently developing a new dashboard. If he can live with that, I would ask him to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u467	I will look at Mr Hammelburg if he is prepared to hold his motion or not. Mr Hammelburg says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u468	I am also prepared to do so if Mr Hammelburg helps more to give the motion judgment Chamber, but if the time limit is extended until then. Then maybe it'll be more of a bird in the hand than in the sky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u469	I think option two is indeed better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u470	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u471	And then what's the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u472	Then it'll be for the accounting debate. I want to keep that term the same, because the planning agencies are working on it. I understand very well that Mr Hammelburg prefers cash register now rather than later. In this case, I'd be happy to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u473	The motion in part No. 88 will not be stopped. I will look at Mr Hammelburg to see if the text of the motion is changed because the deadline has been changed. It might be good to do that. Then the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u474	Then she gets judgment room. If you would like to refer to the debate and the short-term report, I can also live with it. As long as it's clear what the deadline is. Then the motion to part No. 89, the support in Mr Nijboer's back. I would like to ask him the same question, namely whether he wants to hold the motion for now, at least until next week, but quite frankly just a little longer. I agree with much of the inspiration, especially when it comes to lower incomes, but I would like to give the cabinet the opportunity to put the puzzle carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u475	In normal times, I get it. But the big difference from normal times is that the Chamber is missionary and the Cabinet is missionary. The cabinet has nothing to do but do what the Chamber asks. I do not think that the Minister's argument is right. I understand that the cabinet is busy with sums, but the Chamber must give direction. We will vote on Tuesday, and we will not table the motion for nothing. At least half of the higher energy bills are on average compensated, with the breakdown which must be taken into account in particular for low and middle incomes. To be honest, that is more to the Chamber than to the cabinet at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u476	In reply, you do not hold the motion, but you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u477	No, I call on colleagues to take that into account and not just to wait for the cabinet like a lamb. It's our move now, more than the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u478	I would like to point out that the Chamber itself has indicated that it wants a third deadline. In my opinion, it was decided that the cabinet would have time to resolve this. Apart from the missionary status of the cabinet, it is now up to me, on behalf of the outgoing cabinet, to provide the motions with an opinion. My opinion on behalf of the cabinet is that Mr Nijboer should hold the motion, while I agree with many of the comments he made in the debate. If that's not possible, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u479	That's clear. We agree; that happens here often. The third deadline is not aimed at the motions or at giving time to the cabinet. That is because the budget is still being modified after the Financial Reviews have ended. That's regardless of whether the Cabinet comes up with plans or whether it's giving the Chamber direction. That was the argument to have a third term. That's not to sit around waiting as a room. I understand that it has to be after the budget because it is recent information, but that does not change whether this motion is appropriate or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u480	I subtly see that differently. My idea is that in that third period you also want to consider what the total result is, also for purchasing power, and that you may still have a discussion about the coverage, where the money is to come from. I honestly thought I could keep the church in the middle by doing it this way. It is very nice if Mr Nijboer can agree to hold the motion. If I have to now, I have to discourage the motion. Then I think we really should do the homework first. That brings me to the motion in part No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u481	Mr. Tony van Dijck. We're not gonna respond to other people's motions, are we? 'Cause then it's gonna get really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u482	I'm filing a motion with roughly the same thrust, with three billion. In fact, I have cover and Mr Nijboer doesn't even have cover. He says to me, "Don't recommend it." With him, he says, "Stop it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u483	Mr Van Dijck is absolutely right about that. I have changed one thing in Mr Van Dijck's pile of motions. I will not say that this standard is put on "dissuade," but the first one I have just changed from "dissuade" to "detain." I just forgot to say that, so I apologize in his direction. He is absolutely right and it is fantastic that he wants to hold the motion, unless he wants to hold me like Mr Nijboer...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u484	In the past, for the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands, the ship Tijdverdrijf sailed around. This reminds me of that. I'll have to dissuade the motion. I'm at the motion in part No. 90 by Mrs Van Dijk. I can very much endorse the logic of this. I would also like to ask Mrs Van Dijk to hold the motion until the debate on the declaration of government because of the delegation status of the cabinet. If she can agree to that, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u485	I will look at Mrs Van Dijk to see if she is prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u486	So it doesn't have to be that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u487	You can think about it, too. What if Mrs. Van Dijk doesn't hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u488	I think that's really uncomfortable for the Secretary of State. If the motion can be apprehended, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u489	If it doesn't get pulled over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u490	Then I'll have to discourage the motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Dijk's 91, I would like to give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 92 is actually a speech-exmotion, but you have to read it properly. It says: "Decides to ask the Council of State for information." Well, that doesn't require an appreciation from me. The motion in part No. 93 is done by one of the Secretary of State. Then the motion to part No. 94 by Mr Grinwis. I understand the things in the motion. I would ask that this motion be retained until the BZK budget debate at the end of October, because this requires a specific appreciation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. She is very keen to give it, and it is necessary for the Chamber to weigh this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u491	Let me take a look at Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u492	Of course, I am going to think about it until the votes, but at the moment I am not going to hold it. It is very important that this statement should be made when we enter into the debate on the housing budget, because municipalities would very much like the State real estate company to behave in this way. I'm thinking about it, but right now, I'm not announcing any arrest of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u493	Then why don't we do this? As I understand through the consultation, the Minister for the Interior would like to give an appreciation. I can, of course, ask her to make sure that this appreciation is well in place for the budgetary procedure. Mr Grinwis will then be able to take this into account in the debate. Isn't that a nice way to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u494	We're not voting till next week. So I expect the appreciation for Tuesday's votes. Hold a motion for a few weeks and then still vote on it... No, I'd be happy to accept the offer, but I'd be happy to take it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u495	Then I'll have to ask the Secretary of State if I can. I just have no idea. I'm gonna try. Here's what I'll do. I ask her to give the appreciation for next week's votes. If she could not give that appreciation at that time, I would ask her to send a letter to the Chamber, with an appreciation of the motion, given the timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u496	In any case, the vote motion will receive an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u497	Yeah, absolutely. Then I'll be with Mr Van Raan. I've been twisting myself in every corner to get out of some judgment room. That calls for great agility. I need the first motion, the motion in part no. 95, dissuade. Mr Van Raan asked for a generic legal obligation. I need the motion in part no. 96 also dissuaded. I cannot give up-to-date figures for the Millions Note. In line with what I have just promised to Mr Hammelburg, at the very beginning, with regard to the broader CO debate, I could at most say that I would do additional homework for that. That means asking for the motion to be retained, because with these wordings I cannot give a Chamber of Justice. Then the motion to part No. 97.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u498	Before you go any further, here's the thing. The motion in part No. 95 is not recommended and the motion in part No. 96 is also dissuaded. Mr. Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u499	I'm trying to apply the same flexibility as the Minister does. It is not quite clear to me why the motion in part No. Ninety-five is not recommended. He just said, "You have to do that in a law," and I don't do that. Do I understand that that's the reasoning? This is just a check. I can live with that, but then I'll know what I'm up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u500	The motion is formulated in such a way that it is "a generic legal obligation for all proposals." That is such a heavy resource and Brown is not going to be happy to do so in the Compatibility Act as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u501	That's pretty special, because we already know that Brown has to do that at some point. Indeed, we have agreed to do these broad welfare indicators in the business cycle. Maybe that's not what Brown's doing right now, but it has to be done at some point. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u502	Yes, but let me not deny Mr Van Raan the opportunity to table this motion very often and then get a 'yes' from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u503	Well, that's what we're gonna do, until it comes "yes" from the minister. The second motion, the motion in part No. 96, which calls for the inclusion of the effects on national greenhouse gas emissions, is also, in fact, perfectly clear and logical. In fact, this obligation already exists within the framework of the climate forecast. I can live perfectly with the fact that the timing may not be entirely synchronised with the Millions note, the first time, or the second time, or the third time. But at some point this has to happen anyway. So let's get started as soon as possible, in the best possible way possible. That's what the motion is meant to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u504	That is why I have just tried to meet Mr Hammelburg by returning to the subject he rightly raises and by returning to the Chamber on what can be done, including with regard to the CO transfer. You have two types of problems. The first is that the numbers come later in the cycle. The second thing is that you don't have that CO transfer for everything. There are all kinds of issues in the national budget that the PBL does not currently pass on. I think we'd ask them over with that. The cabinet simply cannot deliver now if the government is asked to include in the Millions Note the effects on national greenhouse gas emissions in addition to the budgetary effects of policies. That's what the motion asks. The next cabinet just can't deliver that to the next Millions note. I don't know when I can. With all due respect for the forward-looking view, with further remark that I myself think that it is slowly but surely marching in that direction... I could also ask you to hold the motion. But then I don't know exactly when he'll be able to pull the motion out of the rug again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u505	Very briefly, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u506	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I had the motion in part number one. 97 is about synchronising the various reports a little more. I therefore hope that this motion will receive a ruling from the Chamber. That's actually the Minister's problem. But again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u507	That motion is about to be dealt with by the Minister. You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u508	Well, it has to be done anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u509	The minister just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u510	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u511	We are now having a debate, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u512	I'm gonna think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u513	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Let's not respond to each other's motions, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Van Raan has responded extensively and you are not the first person to do so. You protest, but otherwise all signatories will respond to a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u514	Mr President, you encourage us not to make double motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u515	I don't agree with this. Look, Mr Van Raan has had ample opportunity to respond, because he is the first petitioner. If we really let everyone react, we will have a very extensive debate on the motions, and I would prefer not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u516	I understand, but the Minister is doing a hand-out with what is actually a commitment. I have one more question on that and I can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u517	About the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u518	About the letter. The only question I have on this is what time we could expect it to take place, because then we will be able to start the reflection process and the debate on how we are going to implement it. I would also like to say that we are holding the motion. We could even withdraw her, but that is what I am looking at Mr Van Raan for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u519	In the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u520	(NL) Mr President, I shall be able to vote on the motion for a resolution. Sixty-six, hold on. Then let's wait for the verdict on the motion at item No. 97 down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u521	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35925, No. 96). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u522	Here we go again. But it is good that we have arranged it this way, because that will allow me to deal with Mr Van Raan. I understand what movement he wants to make. What's complicated about the motion in part No. 97? In that motion he asks the Monitor Brede Welvaart and the Climate and Energy exploration to give the same status in the budget cycle as the Macro Economic Recognition. There's something similar there. The same applies to the reporting cycles, because all kinds of work has to be done by the PBL. I can't combine that at the moment either. It is a very broad interpretation of the motion, but what I do want to promise him is that I'm going to see how we can do more with the dashboard of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I would like to tell him that, for the sake of fairness, I am quite far removed from the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u523	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u524	Let me start by saying that I appreciate drifting that off in this case. Perhaps the problem is in the same status, because Macro Economic Recognition is really the basis of some calculations. I understand that this Monitor Brede Prosperity cannot have that status yet, but maybe we can talk about the rhythm and that the rhythm should be the same. That it comes at the same time. That has to happen at some point, because you want to synchronize it anyway. We'll talk about that status later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u525	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to give the motion judgment Chamber with two comments. The first is that Mr Van Raan amends the motion and removes that point about the same status. The second is that I would like to agree with him that I will explore whether it is possible to align the cycles, because I'm not sure I can. I am not against it at all either, and I would therefore like to see whether I can meet Mr Van Raan. With these two adjustments we are still quite far away from the original text, but that is to reassure others in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u526	The motion in part No. 97 is judged Chamber with the interpretation given by the Minister to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u527	It will then receive a different text and a different interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u528	Which we can't get out of the literal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u529	And all for the good sense of life. The motion in part No. Ninety-eight, at least in part, I have to dissuade. I can promise to send a letter on this before the end of the year. I hope for some freedom in exactly how I am going to do that, because it is a complex issue. It also seems complicated to me to include all this in the Millions Note. I am willing to send a letter, but the motion, as it stands, I would advise against. After what we have just agreed together, Mr Van Raan does not have to push me into a split again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u530	A valid point, Mr President. With this commitment, I will withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u531	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u532	Since the Van Raan/Nijboer motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u533	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 99 by Mr Van Houwelingen. I refer to previous debates on the relaunch of the guilder. Both my predecessor and I have argued earlier why it is not wise to share all kinds of reports about it. The Van Houwelingen motion in part No. 100 wants the cabinet to figure out what the lockdown cost. I refer to the many studies that have already been carried out by various institutes. I would also advise against that motion. The Van Houwelingen motion in part No. 101 asks the government to let the CBS take house prices. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer's appreciation of it, namely that it is, in itself, economically quite a logical idea, but that it is not up to me as Minister of Finance to find some of it. So the motion itself I must advise against. The motion in part No. I can leave Mr Van Houwelingen's judgement Chamber, which is closely in line with the debates................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Van Houwelingen motion in part No. 103 I must advise against, because it calls on the government to rule out the introduction of a social credit system or similar system in the Netherlands. Apart from whether we all mean the same thing by a social credit system, the cabinet does not have any challenge to do so, but to exclude things for now and for all eternity seems to me to go a long way again. In this form, therefore, I must advise against this motion, but I can assure you that at least this cabinet has no plans in this direction. The motion in part No. 104 by Mr Van Houwelingen on a digital bank currency I must advise against, because I do not wish to rule this out categorically. Then I am the motion in part No. 105. That is the motion in which Mrs Gündoğan messed with Mr Eppink; that was it. I would like to ask whether it can be stopped until next week. I understand the idea of looking at this in a European context. I would like to point out that if the motion were intended to have a large European fund for this, my suspicion is that not only the cabinet is not enthusiastic about it, but also many in this Chamber. But if I can just interpret the motion sec as "we're gonna watch together and we're gonna try to get a joint toolbox," then it could end well with the motion. I would ask Mrs Gündoğan to pass until next week. If that's okay with her, I'll pass that motion on to Economic Affairs with a positive basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u534	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Gündoğan. Is she willing to hold that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u535	An sich, Mr President, but I am struggling a little bit with the fact that I am afraid that as a country we are not going to be at the front of that toolbox and determine what instruments will be in it, but at the back. I know that some countries are already keen to operate in this area. I would like it, even though I am a member of a European party, if the Netherlands is among the forerunners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u536	I entirely agree with Mrs Gündoğan. Moreover, it is not the case that Member States are playing a leading role in this. It is the Commission that comes up with a proposal and there are all kinds of discussions at political level, but also at official level with the Commission. This week, the Secretary of State replaced me in the discussion in the Eurogroup and Ecofin, which also took place on this issue. So I do not have that concern, but I interpret Mrs Gündoğan's remark in such a way that we, as a cabinet, have a real commitment to play a leading role in this. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u537	Then again the question: are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u538	For the sake of clarity, the noise is that some countries are already more active in this area in the Council. That's where it's wringing now. What is true is not something I can make clear, but that is why I think the Netherlands must be swift in doing so. I'm going to hold the motion, that's an answer. But then, I think, I have sent out a strong signal here that I hope the Netherlands will be quick to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u539	Absolutely, and I understand I have to report this to the Prime Minister tomorrow. That is my final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u540	At the request of Mrs Gündoğan, I propose her motion (35925, No. 106). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u541	Then the motion to part No. 108 by Mr Eppink. It is strange that he did not succeed in getting Mrs Gündoğan under that. I have to discourage this motion. At present, all asylum costs classified as ODA under OECD guidelines are already allocated to the OS budget. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 109. I must also discourage them, not out of unwillingness, but because there is no clear definition and definition of the concept of 'NG'. There is also no separate administration of whether a grant is granted to an NGO or elsewhere. I quite understand the question that you would like to have that type of overview, but this way we can't deliver it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 110, I think, is a speech-out, so it's not up to the cabinet. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 111 of the SGP. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer for clemency on one point. In fact, the cabinet agrees with many of the things he says, and the new Minister of IenW, Mrs Visser, is already in the process of doing so. He is merely asking for information on this before the budget debate. What if I asked the Minister to inform, but for a moment left to her on which of these aspects she is all able to inform? 'Cause I don't know if she can deliver all that. With that interpretation, I would like to give the motion a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u542	But it is quite clear what I am asking, I say to the Minister. If there is something that could not be delivered for the budget treatment of IenW, then there is always talk about it. But I'm assuming that basically everything will be delivered unless there's an impossibility. I never ask for impossible things. If that is also the Minister's lecture, then I can include 'judgement chamber', but I would like to fill in the motion as tight as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u543	That's one in the category "if you don't believe in miracles, you're not a realist." I am therefore going to have to share this with the Chamber on an official basis and that the cabinet really agrees with Mr Stoffer on what needs to be done. He has put the Minister on the right track, I think that the previous Minister of IenW has already been on the right track, on his track, with a mission more or less in the same direction. Mr Stoffer's question is to provide this for the budgetary treatment of IenW. I'm just getting back to you that it's a question of whether it's gonna work to the full. So I would really like to give the motion a ruling Chamber, but I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond and then perhaps not be completely complete. I want to be transparent about that at the front, because otherwise she will have to deal with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u544	I do believe in miracles, because I am a believer, but that aside. I'm not interested in the last inch. If we understand each other so much that it could be that only 95% is delivered, because there is no more than that, then I agree. But that is not the case when you say that you have agreed to provide 1% of what you are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u545	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u546	If we're talking about a relationship where maximum delivery is made, I think the motion will be filled out tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u547	There is a maximum effort to carry out the motion. I would just like to point out that I have been told by officials that there are concerns about whether all this can be done at IenW. In that color bath, I'd like to give the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u548	Finally, I would like to look at Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u549	I don't think we should fall into a word game. I have quite a lot of confidence in the Minister of IenW, so I assume that what can be delivered is simply going to be delivered to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u550	I'll see if she meets me head-shaking tomorrow because I've been too flexible again. I think Mr Stoffer and I agree. Then the motion to part No. 112 by Mrs Den Haan and Mr Azarkan, or 'Ezerken', as I always say at LuckyTV. Actually, I've already dealt with it in the first term. From Mrs Den Haan's inspiration, I really understand what she is asking for, but I also indicated at that time that I should not recommend the motion, precisely because the SZW Minister has concluded a pension agreement and the intention is that the legislation should go towards Parliament by the end of this year. I hope she sees the consistency and can bear that I'm deceiving the motion. Then the motion to part No. 113. That is a motion by Mrs Van der Plas. I believe that the Minister of LNV has already said that the last thing the cabinet wants is to expropriate and that this is really an ultimatum remedium. It's something you're always trying to avoid at the expense of a lot, but you can't always rule it out. I think that is as she put it here in the Chamber. I would like to endorse that wording, and I must therefore advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 114 by Mrs Van der Plas. To be honest, I really understand her concerns, but I find the scenario she sets out, namely a society without farmers, growers and growers, extremely undesirable and, frankly, also in the literal sense of the word unimaginable. I would advise against that motion, because I do not see how I should find out. Such a type of scenario is so far-reaching that I do not know how to start calculating it either. I hope she can sympathize with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u551	I think the Minister is misreading the motion. In the last sentence, it says: "calls on the Cabinet to assess the costs incurred by citizens if there are no more farmers, growers and growers who can take care of the above-mentioned matters." So I am not saying 'if there are no more farmers', but 'if there are no more farmers who can take care of this'. For it may be that we still have farmers, but that they simply cannot take care of all these things in this great form, as is happening now, on a large scale. They may still be able to provide a shed somewhere or place a field edge somewhere, but not to the extent that that is the case now. That's how you read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u552	That is what is vengeful that I am getting back, and I am sure it was discussed with the LNV Ministry that even if I interpret it as such, it would mean a very serious restriction, because then our own great farming sector, together with the growers and growers, would no longer be able to deliver even what is needed in the country. That's how I interpret the motion. So that means a dramatic decline. So you'd have to import a lot more. That is, in fact, the thrust of the motion. That goes so far that I can imagine that the LNV Ministry has great difficulty in making a realistic start at all with such a calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u553	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u554	Yeah, finally. Yet I make the call to make such an assessment, in any way. I believe that, throughout the debate on nitrogen, climate and so on, we are completely ignoring it... as we see in the reports by Minister Schouten, for example for the CAP or the National Strategic Plan. Food security is not really mentioned anywhere. And the citizen, I think, does not know at all the great consequences of the rapid pace with which the number of farmers is falling. The big consequences are already there. In Brabant and Overijssel, for example, there are all impoverished farms. We all know the images from France, the Auvergne, for example, with villages that are completely empty because there is no more agriculture there. I do not think that is a good enough picture for the public. So I think we're too easy to think about, because it's all there now. It's all there. So that's my incentive to get a picture of what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u555	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u556	I very much agree with that. There is, of course, a huge strategic added value to being able to produce your own food, in case of a calamity somewhere. That's actually how I understand Mrs Van der Plas. So I very, very much agree with that. But let me ask the Minister of LNV, which I think is rather different from a motion to articulate again, also in the debate on nitrogen and climate, how important it is to have a high degree of self-sufficiency. It is therefore about the great importance of simply being able to feed the mouths in the Netherlands and what the added value of that is. Because I very much agree with that. Mrs Van der Plas is now asking for something outside the microphone. I don't know exactly what "everything else" is, because it sounds like a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u557	Finally, Mrs van der Plas. A brief explanation and then we move on to your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u558	Thank you. So I said "and everything else," including the economic aspect. I call 600,000 people who are offered jobs. I call it rural tourism. Look at the bulb fields in North and South Holland, where just millions of people from Asia come to watch. They also contribute to the local economy, by staying in the hotels in Amsterdam. So it's about the whole picture, not just about food security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u559	Okay. But then here's what I'm gonna do. Then I am going to ask the Minister of LNV and the Ministry of Finance to include the following in the calculations made in the field of nitrogen. 1. The strategic added value of being able to feed one's own mouths; that's what I'm calling it. 2. The added value of this great agricultural sector and everything that comes with it, so growers and growers. 3. The elements that I think are somewhat smaller, but which you would also like to consider, so the elements as Mrs van der Plas mentioned them. I'm gonna ask you to take that and prepare for the debate on nitrogen. I can do that, so I say that to Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u560	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u561	The motion in part No. 115 I must advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 116, by Mr Ephraim, I must advise against referring to what I said earlier to Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u562	Before proceeding, Mr Ephraim has a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 116.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u563	Of course, I have great respect for the intelligence of the Minister of Finance, but he also understands that this is a small step forward for the talks that will take place in the coming days. And, of course, I would like to remind him with all due respect that the CDA said here on 7 September, and last week in the committee debate, that expropriation is unnegotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u564	I just gave the appreciation. I am speaking on behalf of the outgoing Minister of LNV of this outgoing cabinet. It has repeatedly argued here that expropriation is very undesirable and, fortunately, rarely occurs. But as a legal tool, it's in the law. I say again: it is extremely uncomfortable, but that is the situation as it is. That is where I think she referred to the actual situation, and I have no choice but to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u565	Mr. Ephraim, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u566	I understand. Just a little reminder. Of course, you are also a CDA politician and have talks in the next few days. But that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u567	I understand we're gonna do a lot with seconds. The motion in part No. 117 also belongs to Mr Ephraim, and also to Mr Eppink. I understand in my own right if you want to know financial risks, but this is reported on a very regular basis. This is also happening through the debates we are having here on the Eurogroup and Ecofin. There has also been the Beetsma Committee. He has raised a number of points recently, including at the request of the Chamber. So I would like to discourage that motion in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u568	If everything is there, it doesn't seem so hard to write it in one readable report that we can all take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u569	There's just been a Beetsma committee going on. It's got all kinds of people of name and fame in it. They have produced a report for the Chamber in which many of these cases have passed through. This motion is at the heart of that report, and that is on top of all the other reports we have had before. And then to put it all together... I also know Mr Ephraim as a very efficient man. He can find that for himself, and he doesn't need any help from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u570	Thank you. The motion in part No. 118.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u571	I'm already in motion on part No. 118. The first part of that motion, namely that the one-off facility should become permanent, I could give a ruling to Chamber. But what appears after the comma is "to fight the emergence of a transfer union in the euro area at all times".... suggests that I should fight everything that is now there. After all, I have often argued here that there are already transfer-like elements in the current design of the euro area. If a point were to be made after 'gets', it would be entirely in line with what the Prime Minister has repeatedly argued here and then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u572	Let me take a look at Mr Ephraim, JA21. Is he willing to interpret the motion like that? He's from the Van Haga Group; excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u573	Yeah, that's a good idea. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u574	You change the motion and then re-table her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u575	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u576	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u577	Thank you. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 120 is, in fact, in line with what he said earlier about the informers. I have to discourage this motion. Moreover, I do not think that the three-week deadline is wise either. I would also like to refer to the appreciation I gave to the amendment. I hope he can agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm almost at the end of my second term. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for the breadth, depth and richness of this debate. I believe it was Mrs Van Dijk who said that the Treasury portfolio was boring and not sexy. I think it's different, but it may only be so polite in this house and within this company. I would also like to remind you that in the first term I heard the GroenLinks spokesperson say to the VVD that he was "sinterclasses." I think that if Mr Wiegel, whom I very much appreciate, had known in the 1970s that this style figure would take place here again, he would not have believed it in advance. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. O Chairman, one last thing. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan very much. I would like to say straight away that in the category of persuasion it is extremely clever to come forward with a gift before any motions are dealt with. Reciprocity is one of the elements of persuasion as described by Cialdini. So he would have done that very wisely. I'm adding these to the long series of gifts I keep receiving from him. But it's going in full daylight, so we can wear that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u578	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his extensive appreciation of the motions. We'll clean up for a while and then I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u579	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 85 of the SP is a speech-expression, so I have no judgment on that. The motion in part No. 87 of D66 on greening ecv: please judge Chamber. I'm gonna do my best. The motion in part No. 105 of the Forum for Democracy is about the quarter of Kok. I have already argued in detail to Mr Van Dijck that we did not intend to reduce excise duties. In doing so, the government is going to look at a broad package in the field of energy prices. So it's not advisable. Then I have the motion in part no. 107 of JA21: "disputes itself against the IMF's proposal to create its first home (...)'. That is a part of the speech, but then comes: "calls on the cabinet to oppose this too." Unfortunately, we cannot resist, unfortunately, than for the author of the motion for a resolution against opinions. It wouldn't seem wise to me either. So I must advise against this motion. It is just, like all kinds of good advice, on the table on the department and also on the formation. Finally, the motion in part No. 119, by Mr Omtzigt on electric cars. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The cabinet considered that a contribution should also be made to the reduction of CO in the mobility sector. This subsidy was designed to reduce the focus on expensive cars by reducing the tax deduction cap. That is precisely what Mr Omtzigt said in detail last year in the many debates we have had on this subject. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u580	There have been about six or seven Court reports for the subsidy of electric cars. Can the Secretary of State give one Court of Auditors report once that it was a bit cost-effective and not just the happy few? Or does he share my view that the subsidy has really been thrown away over the last ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u581	Thank you again for Mr Omtzigt's question. When the climate package had to be made, the cabinet looked at how it could make all sectors contribute. This measure, this 600 million, also contributes to the reduction of CO emissions. So it is indeed effective. The question of whether it is efficient can be asked, but it is effective. It contributes to that reduction. Once again, we have chosen a different form from what the Court of Auditors has looked at so far. We're lowering the cap and we're just trying to boost the cheaper electric cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u582	Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u583	Then we are dealing with a government that would like to encourage electric cars from €40,000 to €45,000 through complete tax exemptions, including the one paid quarterly, by lower addition and all these kinds of things. The government believes that this is a lot more important than a few hundred thousand people who cannot pay their energy bills and who really need to think about whether they are turning on their washing machine. So that's the conclusion I have to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u584	That conclusion is up to Mr Omtzigt. I disagree with him. First of all, I told you that the cap is being lowered. The incentive is used precisely for the less expensive electric cars. Secondly, the cabinet is working on a very comprehensive package to help the people Mr Omtzigt is talking about. We've been talking about that all night. I therefore disagree with his judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u585	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u586	We are just dealing here with people receiving a few thousand euros of subsidy on an electric car that is barely producing CO-profit. Maybe it gets a little cleaner air in the inner cities, but that's pretty much all it gets for good. But ten people who don't make it to the end of the month because the energy bill goes up, stay in the cold, not only figuratively but literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u587	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u588	That is truly contrary to what the King called the purpose of the Millions Note. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u589	I didn't hear another question, but I don't agree with this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u590	Thank you. There will be a moment of cleaning and I will finally give the floor to the other Secretary of State for Finance to give her appreciation of one motion. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's one motion left. That's the motion in part No. Mr Grinwis (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The motion is mainly about the effort to examine whether we can remove the non-use of surcharges and ensure that they do. I would like to say two things about this, but the motion will be judged by Chamber. The first point is that in 2022, so next year, we will evaluate the Awir. This means that we will also include the issue of non-use. In addition, initiatives to reduce non-use are already underway. For example, this year there was a pilot in which non-users of the healthcare allowance were contacted by letter and telephone and helped with the application process. But the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u592	I agree. I'm happy about that. I have one question about the evaluation of the Awir. Can we also specifically address the consequences of the whole premium affair? Has that indeed led to more fear of fees, so to speak? Has it led to more fear and not dare to apply for supplements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u593	I don't know exactly how we could investigate that, but if we can, I'd like to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u594	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of the General Financial Reviews. I would like to thank the heads of government, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive answers to all the questions. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u595	We're going to vote next Tuesday on the motions. The House has decided by majority to hold a third term at a later date. We are going to decide the speaking time, but we are going to plan it when a letter comes from the cabinet. In the coming weeks, the Chamber will deal with the various budgets. We shall then vote on the proposed amendments to the budgets at the end of the vote. According to the current timetable, these votes will take place on 7 December. Mr. Van Dijck, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u596	"A later moment" is "for the recess." I would ask you to take it into account in the planning that we are doing that third term next week, because we as a Chamber have decided that we do not want to push it in the long term. So that's before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u597	This is a new request. I am going to put this to you, unfortunately at the end, because I want there to be no misunderstanding about this. We agreed to keep a third term. The cabinet would come up with a letter on planning and on that basis a third deadline would be considered. Well, at least that's how I sum it up. Doesn't anyone agree? At least that applies to Mr Van Dijck. To be honest, I can see the rest of you nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u598	I just don't want it on the long track!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u599	Mr. Chairman. As soon as possible, but if the cabinet doesn't come out in one go, but in two, then so be it. The cabinet heard us. I do agree with Mr Van Dijck that you cannot keep this waiting until December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u600	As soon as possible. The people in the cabinet who are responsible for the finances are fully present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u601	A small request. We have a habit of getting a few extra minutes here. Since I as a Member of Parliament only have 44 minutes for the whole budget, I hope we...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u602	You really must do this in a different way than at the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u603	No, this is about the third term. Normally it doesn't count for the budget cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-14.u604	No, it doesn't count. That's right. If that's what you mean, that's right. Sure. We are going to do this in a good way, so that all nineteen speakers have a chance to tell their story. Thanks again. I'm closing the meeting.
