ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is General Financial Reviews. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance, like the MPs, the people on the public and the viewers at home. Today we are discussing the first term on the side of the Chamber. I want to meet with you: eight questions and/or comments, if they are short. Otherwise I'm going to bring it back to six, but if they're short and powerful: eight questions and/or comments. You can decide for yourself what you want: whether you want to ask a question, give a summary or conclude. I'd also like to ask you to talk through the chairman. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by asking this outgoing Minister of Finance what it was like yesterday at Ecofin, whether he was still addressed on his construction in the British Virgin Islands. As we have seen from here, the newspapers in Italy were full of them. So I would like to know how people reacted to that news. That brings me to the credibility of this minister. The question is of course: can he still act as a warrior against tax havens and tax avoidance, now that he himself has used such a construction on the British Virgin Islands? Compare it with a Minister of Justice and Security who wants to tackle drug policy, but rather ran a coffee shop himself. How credible is that? The minister plays here in this house the alleged innocence and wants to end it with "2009 was a different time," but he doesn't get away with it. Normal people just pay taxes in this country and they don't retire in Guernsey and they don't help a boyfriend with a start-up in Africa with €26,000, which you still have. That's not normal, Minister. The minister wants us to believe he didn't know he was investing in a letterbox company on a Caribbean island. But nobody's gonna believe that either. 'Cause if you transfer $26,000, you know what to do, don't you? Then you know what you invest in, especially when you're 34 years old. That's a car. Or does this minister have too much money? It could be. Nor does he supposedly know who those other investors were. That also sounds unbelievable, because it was a friend club, that's how we were able to read. They were all friends of the Leiden student corps Minerva, of McKinsey, of ABN AMRO, the old boys network. Mr. Chairman. If you analyze it, that whole construction was built to avoid tax: pure tax planning. You earn your money in Kenya, where the Vpb is 30%, then you channel it to a holding company in Mauritius.. a commonly used construction to avoid tax in Africa, where the Vpb is 0%.................................................................................................. This has been considered. Thought of the Zuidas whizzkids. This place stinks. It reminds me of Sywert van Lienden, also one of those CDA benefactors, who spotted 9 million with his mouth cap deal. So to speak, he wanted to do the right thing. Just like this African minister, Sywert wanted to do good for public health in the Netherlands. This minister knew very well what he was doing and if he had called Sywert, he would now be able to cash, because by now that start-up of the minister is making 5 million sales and 900 people are on the payroll. That's not a small start-up anymore, that's just a big company. If the minister had cashed his shares now, he'd have made a hell of a lot of money. The question is therefore: how credible is this minister? And how credible is this minister in Europe? I told you in the beginning, the Italian newspaper headlined: from prosecutor to defendant. This Minister with his lifted finger and his strong attitude towards southern Europe is no longer credible. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of credibility. The cabinet headed by Mr Rutte has plunged the Netherlands into a major crisis in recent years. We are in the midst of a housing crisis, an energy crisis, a migration crisis, a care crisis, an education crisis, a security crisis and so on; one crisis after another. How credible is it, then, that this coalition, which has caused all this misery, now wants to make a start? They want to clean up the mess they've caused and they promise to get better. But nobody's gonna fall for that, right? That's like a pyromaniac says, "I promise to put out my own fire." It doesn't work. It is therefore not surprising that more than 70% of the Dutch population have no confidence in this. Mr. Chairman. Let me run by some crises. First of all, the purchasing power crisis, which is well known to us here in this house. People's purchasing power has stopped since the turn of the century. People crave a little air in the wallet. Despite the fact that the economy is growing by 3.5%, next year we will get nothing in purchasing power. The Netherlands is impoverished. More and more people don't make ends meet. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has about 250,000 working poor, we were able to see in a source of the ESC last week. 1.5 million people in the Netherlands suffer from problematic debt and poverty. That's the Netherlands in 2021. Meanwhile, everything becomes more expensive. We have seen it: the care, the own risk, the energy bill, the messages. Everything has become a lot more expensive in recent years. Take the gas. Nowadays you pay more than €2 for a liter of gasoline. Why do we pay €0.50 more in the Netherlands than in Belgium and in Germany, so I ask the Minister, or actually the Secretary of State. Half of the Netherlands is now filling up in neighbouring countries. It's been going on for years. More than half of every gallon of gas goes to the state treasury. The PVV says: lower excise duties below the level of our neighbouring countries so that they can make our state treasury here instead of the other way around. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the energy crisis, which the newspapers are full of. Gas prices are going through the roof. Meanwhile, we pay more than €100 per megawatt hour. That was the beginning of the year €17. 550,000 households now live in energy poverty. If this goes on like this, we're gonna be in the cold in winter. This year the energy bill increased by €500 and next year it will probably rise by €550 again. We're heading for a direct energy disaster. But what does this minister do, what does this cabinet do? Nothing! Other countries have now taken action. Italy, Greece, Spain, France, they all reduced the energy costs for families. And this minister leaves the whole of the Netherlands in the cold. Then there's the pension crisis. That's something like that. The pots are bulging out. Meanwhile, in ten years' time, the pension assets in the Netherlands have doubled from 830 billion to almost 1,700 billion. However, pension funds must be poor and pensioners have not been indexed for ten years. Pensioners pay the bill and now lose 11% of purchasing power. A math example. A retired person with a small supplementary pension of €700 is now missing after ten years €200 per month, because there is no index. That's inexplicable. The immigration crisis. Under the guidance of Mr Rutte, 900,000 non-Western migrants came to the Netherlands. That's a city the size of Amsterdam. That has cost us 200 billion so far, in care, benefits, housing, you name it. Why isn't anybody talking about that? When we ask a question about the Millions note, they say: we are not going to calculate that. We must not know what the open borders cost. The policy of open borders now costs the taxpayer EUR 20 billion a year. Mr. Chairman. Under Rutte, our society has visibly changed. In the big cities, more than half of the newborns are non-western. So count out your future. It goes on and on. The COAs are filling up again. We were able to see it in today's papers and yesterday's papers. Last month alone 3,000 asylum seekers came into the Netherlands. The PVV therefore wants to close the borders for all asylum seekers and migrants from Islamic countries. It can't go on like this. We're gonna be strangers in our own country. So cut it off and close the borders. That brings me right to the housing crisis, which is also such a huge crisis right now. Partly because of the migration there is no house to get in the Netherlands. The housing shortage has now risen to 30,000 homes, and if anything is released, 27,000 waiting status holders are ahead. So the starter in the Netherlands is screwed and the waiting lists are getting longer and longer. Apart from a shortage, the houses are now priceless, as we know. In a year's time, prices rose by almost 20%. A terraced house now costs four tons. In 2013, that was two tons. In seven or eight years the prices of the houses have doubled. Living is priceless and also the rents have increased exorbitantly, in the last ten years under Rutte by 30%, so that 800,000 tenants can hardly pay their bills anymore. We also see that there are no rentals. The stock of 2.3 million has been the same for ten years, because corporations don't build. Of course, it's the landlord's tax. Therefore, the PVV is also in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax and the suffocating rules. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the supplemental affair, such a crisis, a crisis that stopped this cabinet and sent it home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	I just want to make something right. Mr Van Dijck says that there is a housing shortage of 30,000 homes. I think he's wrong about that. The housing shortage is about 330,000 homes. He then said that 27,000 homes would be taken by asylum seekers. I know it's kind of the national hobby of the PVV to blame asylum seekers, people who can't do anything about it, but it's good to give the right figures. So, unfortunately, the housing shortage is not 30,000 but 330,000 homes, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's right, Mr. Chairman. There's 300,000 here, too. That was a slip of the tongue. It's gotta be 300,000, but still. We're short 300,000 homes. When a house is released, there are still 27,000 asylum seekers in the queue who get priority over the Dutch who are looking for a house. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the supplemental affair. It is really too scandalous for words about how citizens in this country are treated, how they are ground up in bureaucratic government mills and how executives, such as the Tax Administration, deal with their customers. We are now a year and a half and now 47.000 people have reported, but only 18.000 have received an advance. That's about it, after nine months. The rest is still running and is being treated. Only 4,000 cases have been fully assessed and only 47 cases have been dealt with by the Committee on Actual Damage. That's not gonna make any sense. If this takes so long, we'll be at it in a hundred years. So I say to this Minister: take action and do something to speed things up. When I see how this is handled and how it is handled, I hold my heart with regard to the corona support packages, because they are coming up now. I see the same nightmare as the supplemental affair. 40% of companies have to pay back everything from the NOW 1, as it turns out now. They've overestimated the revenue loss. 70,000 companies still have to apply for a fix, otherwise they will have to repay everything. This is about billions that have to be repaid. I've calculated it on the back of a cigar box: I estimate 12 billion has to be repaid. Then there is another 20 billion in taxes. How is business going to repay this? How is the Minister going to prevent us from being in a second payment affair later? And how is he going to prevent companies from being ground by a rigid government and still falling down with bushes at the same time? I would like to receive a reassuring answer and clarification on what the Minister's plan is. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Europe crisis. Instead of helping our own people, this cabinet has an eye for Europe, for the European Union and for other, southern European Member States. The EU Restoration Fund is now operational. The window is open and there is 800 billion ready to distribute. Come and get it! The European Commission has been lending itself to the capital market since we gave it the green light to borrow on the capital market. The Netherlands pays 50 billion. "Solidarity" is what they call in Brussels. Apparently, we have too much money here. Every Dutch family can transfer €6,000 to countries like Italy, Spain and Greece, as if they had too much. What is the Minister thinking about giving us tax dollars like this? I keep saying that Italy and Spain will receive a grant of EUR 70 billion, while those countries will grow as coal pyrites by 5% to 6%, harder than the Netherlands, and will be able to borrow on the capital market at 0%. The Netherlands is now borrowing on the capital market to provide them with billions. That's the world upside down, isn't it? So can the Minister explain it one more time? Because until now, all I hear is: it's good for our economy. Why do we have to give billions of dollars to countries like Italy and Spain? The Netherlands wants less EU, but only gets more. Finally, Mr President. What a wonderful country the Netherlands could once again be, if we were to make the right choices, if we were not to spend our money abroad but to our own people, if we were to give the Dutch instead of asylum seekers priority again for a house, if we were to limit migration and make our streets safe again, if we could provide pensioners with a decent and indexed pension again, if we could just let farmers, our national pride, back to farming without the scourge of that nonsense of nitrogen terror and if we could give all those people who already have a hard time a little extra air by reducing the energy bill, energy taxes, rents and excise duties. It's not all that complicated, as long as we make the right choices and put Dutch people back together and when we invest in our own country and in our own people. That the Netherlands, that beautiful, proud country, is not going to bring us a new cabinet with the same parties at the helm. We need new elections for this, but that country is going to be there, not because I say that because the Dutch deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. In front of us are the Millions note, the budget and all kinds of explorations from different planning agencies. Bookworks full of numbers, tables and graphs. Interesting reading for us as financial spokesmen, but behind all these figures are the stories of very ordinary people. In this Millions note you can clearly read two different stories. The first is a rather violent story about a country that is in a huge crisis and that is going through it. It is visible in the Millions note and in the deep red figures and declining graphs, but it was especially noticeable in the quiet streets, the empty roads and the abandoned train stations and in offices, shops and schools that had to close, while hospitals flooded. Never before has our economy been artificially shut down, never before has our society come to a standstill in this way and never before have we faced such a huge health crisis. An unprecedented contraction in the economy was the result of unprecedented budget deficits and rising debt as a result of unprecedented measures. All these shitty measures were necessary, but let's just be honest, it was a very difficult period for everyone. The second story is fortunately a much more optimistic story. This is about a country with enormous resilience and adaptability. We started working at home, zooming, kids were taking digital classes, we were having digital drinks, and we were doing messages for each other. Entrepreneurs continued to fight hard and put their last savings into their business. Like the owner of a bookstore not far from here where I often come. In December she had spent her last savings on Christmas lighting to cheer the store up in the hope of making up for some of the losses at Christmas to hear a week later that the Netherlands had to go back into lockdown. Fortunately, she and all those entrepreneurs were able to count on emergency support. Well spent money preventing many bankruptcies and allowing the economy to make a flying start after corona. The economy is growing again, and how! After a free fall, the economy rises again. Budget deficits are falling and for the first time in a long time there have been more vacancies than the unemployed. Worldwide, our country is being watched with admiration. How do these Dutch people do that? One of the successes is our modern economy. We have many different companies and are not dependent on one sector. Our economy is driven by knowledge, which you can't deactivate with a lockdown. And we're at the forefront of digitalization, for example, which allowed us to work through lockdowns, get kids lessons and keep seeing our family. But I have to be honest, too. We are in danger of falling behind on a number of things. That makes us vulnerable, and we must not let that happen. In the Millions note, the cabinet takes a few important first steps. First of all, security and investment in tackling organised crime, security and police. Over half a billion euros. We have added another 200 million to that in the General Political Reviews with the Hermans motion. It's the biggest investment in our security for a long time. And rightly so! In the debate on the Spring note, I asked the Minister for more insight into the rejected financial claims, say the calls for extra money that the cabinet rejected. Can the Minister address the Justice and Security budget in this context and answer the question whether we are already doing what is necessary with this mega-investment to make the Netherlands safer or whether there are still deficits? Because we need to strengthen the fight against organised crime. They threaten to destroy everything that makes the Netherlands such a beautiful country, an open and free country. People who work hard for our rule of law will be murdered in broad daylight. Entrepreneurs are destroyed and families are threatened by unsavory criminals. It's scum and it has to stop. We are also at risk of falling behind in our international security. The rise of undemocratic blocs of power, instability at the edges of Europe and aggressive, authoritarian countries threatening our security. Europe will have to defend our own security much more. This calls first and foremost for a strong military force and for strong alliances, such as NATO and the European Union, for a country like the Netherlands. In the Millions note some holes are closed in the defense budget. Fine, but not nearly enough. We have also cleared 300 million extra for this in the General Political Reviews with the Hermans motion for a resolution in order to eliminate delays. But this too will not be enough. In the Millions note, the cabinet does indicate how important the military is. That is right, but it does not say what is necessary to ensure that this force functions properly and to fulfil our international obligations. Three years ago, the Minister of Defence indicated that more than EUR 4 billion is needed to bring the armed forces to the European NATO average. I ask the Minister: is that still the case? Is it true that, on average, our economy is always rising faster than our defence expenditure, which means that we will never make it to NATO standards, even if we invest billions in them? Shouldn't there be a rule whereby we always allow defence spending to go hand in hand with the economy in order to meet our international obligations? In fact, this is what we are doing with the EU payments. Mr. Chairman. We will also have to invest extra in climate policy. We need to invest in greening our industry and clean, stable energy production. In addition to solar and wind energy, we must also invest in nuclear energy. Besides our physical infrastructure, we will also have to invest in our energy infrastructure. The Millions note takes the first steps, including in hydrogen. It is a crucial first step towards a sustainable hydrogen economy. I would like to know from the Minister whether the follow-up plans to further develop that hydrogen infrastructure are already in place. Is that at least being worked on so we don't waste any time? Mr. Chairman. We're facing big challenges. In addition to investing in security, defence, energy and climate, we also need to invest in homes, overdue maintenance of our infrastructure, education and innovation. As financial spokesmen, we must ask how we pay for all this. For many parties there is a simple answer to this: increase taxes, and preferably among entrepreneurs. I think that's unwise. It completely ignores the realization that money we spend here must first be earned. It goes without saying that you should therefore encourage entrepreneurship rather than slow down and that companies are not anonymous offices, but that very normal people work there, who simply earn their living. I also think it would be unwise to make cuts. It is simply not necessary, because the economy is in good shape. I therefore believe that it is wise that we should finance one-off expenditure on, for example, overdue maintenance and the construction of a new energy infrastructure from the general funds. Or simply put: that we can borrow, and thus increase public debt, for investments that are structurally strengthening the economy. Mr. Chairman. It's possible. From an economic point of view, the Netherlands is well off the corona crisis. There are, of course, personal dramas behind it. The Minister said it nicely: if I could have signed for this, I would have. I very much agreed with that. It is also understandable that he said that, with a public debt of over 60%. After an economic crisis, an enormous economic crisis, and after 80 billion in aid measures! In the next few years, that government debt will continue to fall to 50% and even, if you look a little further, to 27%. Mr. Chairman. We're a thrifty country, but we shouldn't be stingy. We need to use the space we have now, especially given the challenge we face and the low interest we pay. That doesn't mean that the lockers can just open. Somewhere we'll have to limit ourselves. Structural expenditure should therefore simply be covered, in accordance with the opinion of the Study Group on Budgets. That study group also recommends a separate system for one-off investments, so that we can use money smarter over the years. From that point of view, in addition to the National Growth Fund, we could also, for example, set up a national recovery or transition fund. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? And does he see room to fill those funds? Mr. Chairman. Where the Netherlands does have the financial space, other countries clearly do not have it. Many countries went into the corona crisis with poor public finances and came out worse. The Millions note goes into this as well. The global level of public debt has never been so high historically, with worrying outliers, such as Italy with a 160% public debt. The colleague already referred to it. Now I believe that Europe has no debt but a growth problem. This growth requires reforms, not more debt. I therefore follow with some concern the debate on the adaptation of European budgetary rules and attempts to eliminate certain expenditure from the deficit standard. Does the Minister share those concerns? How does he look at the sustainability of Europe's debt mountain, also because it is only maintained by an ECB that lets the money presses run. That is once finite, especially given the risk of inflation. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	Something is still leaking through the NIS and yesterday informant Remkes also outlined some of the ideas on the VVD's budgetary policy. Mr Heinen says that the locks can actually be opened occasionally, so that we can spend a lot of money, but structuralally we have to cut back if you want to spend. I wonder what kind of analysis is underneath that. I see what the big problems of the Netherlands are. There are quite occasional things, like nitrogen and stuff. But the quality of education is deteriorating. You need structural money for that. The supplement system needs to be revised. That's gonna cost you. You need a higher minimum wage for that, and probably lower nominal care contributions. We need structural money. With investing in housing, you won't be ready in three or four years. There must be money, and also structural. So I ask Mr Heinen: what structural problems does he intend to solve with such an enormous amount of occasional money, while the Wopke-Wiebes fund is already not getting the money spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Nijboer rightly raises a number of issues that we need to resolve with each other. I can add a lot more. I did not hear Mr Nijboer talk about the housing market. That also seems very serious to me. I call security, defence, infrastructure, to name but a few. We all have our wishes. We all see these problems and from our parties and political ideology we also have a prioritization in them. We have to be honest, too. We will not all be 100% right; we will not invest as much as we would like. We have to acknowledge that, too. I think that in the short term we face a number of major challenges. Mr Nijboer also mentioned them: nitrogen, climate, delayed maintenance. I think we should pull the wallet for that. We have to make occasional payments for that. But you can't keep adding up the structural expenditure bills indefinitely. Where the border lies, of course, is also on the forming parties. They look at what budget deficit or surplus you can go to. I think you're gonna come up with a deficit sooner. One thing is clear: you can't keep stacking it infinity. There's an end to the amount of cake you put on a cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	That's right. Politics is about making choices. The PvdA has always advocated responsible budgetary policies. It's about political choices. Mr Heinen says that these companies should not be taxed. I disagree. You can use it to pay for investments in education. I'm really afraid it's gonna be some kind of payoff. We're spending a huge amount of money. You can't even get it published, and it's not being spent efficiently. In the long term, the major problems of society are not addressed. That is of course also what Tjeenk Willink said: start with the big problems of this time. That is the quality of education. That's the housing shortage. That's the supplement system. That's how people can't make ends meet from work. All this costs structural money. Mr Heinen has already locked this up, because he says: 'The burdens on businesses must not be raised and those of citizens must go down. And I only have occasional money." Then the VVD worsens the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	In doing so, you anticipate an outcome that we do not even know what it will look like. Mr Nijboer says: I am afraid. I'm different in life. I'm pretty optimistic we can get out of here. Mr Nijboer says: I would like to increase the burden on companies. I've seen that in the election program. That account was 40 billion. My goodness, even the SP got a little embarrassed on its jaws. Election programs are also a bit of political hobbyism. You can play with it a little bit. But in all seriousness, Mr. Nijboer: if you increase the burden on business by 40 billion, you really ignore the idea that you have to earn money first. I said that earlier in my speech. You can't tax infinite companies. That doesn't mean you don't want to solve the problems. I draw attention to the fact that you can not infinitely increase taxes but continue to increase them, as you did in your election program. When that came out, to be honest, that really freaked me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr President, this does not have to be an interruption, but I note that the VVD says that election programmes are a bit of a political spielerei. So that's the governance culture the VVD advocates. It is my ideals and beliefs that are written down in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr... Oh, Mr. Heinen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, maybe I'd like to make a little comment on that. I don't take anything away from the seriousness of the plans contained in election programmes. But if you say that I am coming through the President-in-Office with an increase in taxes of 40 billion, I cannot quite honestly take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. I'll count it as an interruption. We have said: eight questions or comments, to be divided themselves. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, who has been standing a little longer. I shall then give the floor to Mr Grinwis, then to Mrs Gündoğan and then to Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	Let me start by saying that we are probably all optimists here. I say this before it is said again: the left is always so pessimistic. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. I have two points, Mr President. The first point is as follows. In all the crises that Mr Heinen mentions, I miss the self-reflection of the VVD so requested on how we ended up here. Then we can talk about the premium affair or the nitrogen crisis, but I would like to focus on the point where Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, and the Animal Party agreed. This is because the broad prosperity monitor indicates that current economic growth cannot be sustained. Actually, I don't hear him talking about it. What are the fundamental changes he wants to make? Because once again, this is how it's not perseverable. That's point one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u18	I am just thinking how best to answer Mr Van Raan's question. The reason why I take time to think is because this question is also underneath it: does the VVD take responsibility for the things that go wrong here? Of course, if you rule for ten years, then you're responsible for the successes, but also for things that don't go well. Let me put that in front of you. I'm not running away from that either. That does not alter the fact that you feel a responsibility to solve all the problems that exist. Another interruption to a response to an interruption? Or should I just finish my answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u19	You're talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u20	Okay, I'll finish it. Then there's broad prosperity. I sincerely think it is a nice debate about broad prosperity, which you look more broadly than just GDP. There's more to it than just that one figure that tells you how to be macroeconomic. You also need to see how people benefit; people, but also your country as a whole. Then it's also about sustainability, how you use that prosperity that you're all collecting in your country to just make it a nicer, more beautiful country. So I very much agree. But I also heard the remark that it is no longer possible and that growth would be too high. That's where I started to doubt, because how can income growth be too high? I'd like to ask that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u21	This counts, of course, I understand. This is simply the problem that Mr Heinen apparently does not know what the broad concept of prosperity is. This is not just about the here and now, but also about the later and elsewhere. Then you see that the indicators of later and elsewhere, crucial points, are in the red and are also constantly getting redder. That was the analysis in this spring's Accountability debate, together with the Prime Minister, who also said: it is simply not sustainable. The redder, especially those indicators of being later, the more you need to do now. I do not really hear Mr Heinen talking about that at all. So he does not reflect very much what the real problems are in this area either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u22	That's a free interpretation of my input. When it comes to that wide welfare monitor, which not everyone in the country will know, that's actually a scoreboard with colors, green and red. I think there are also some gradations between how your country stands before it in different categories. We have that debate more often. Then I also ask for balance in that broad welfare monitor, because there are things like sustainability and so on. But you don't get a lot of trees in your street when there's a crook behind every tree, so I always ask attention in that broad prosperity for things like security and migration, to include them. That is also part of my speech. I think Mr Van Raan is addressing sustainability, climate and so on. They're a little darker in that monitor, too. It was precisely my argument that we should invest in making our economy more sustainable, in our new energy infrastructure. In that I am optimistic, that we will be able to do just that and that we will all be able to get these indicators green.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u23	My second point is indeed about the structural versus incidental budget. I would like to add my voice to the point made by Mr Nijboer. I do wonder at the thought of these funds, at what I now understand about them, whether that actually evades the budget law of the House of Representatives, as it is described now. The Court of Auditors and the Council of State have now said: take your budget right. Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u24	Oh, yeah. That's a fair discussion. We also have this discussion with the Growth Fund in a sense: how can you implement your budget law as a Chamber, but how do you also ensure that you set certain investments at some distance from politics in order to avoid that I use the word "political hobbyism"? When I look at old funds, like the FES fund, whose idea was very noble, how to invest to strengthen your economy in the long term, then in the end all kinds of hobbies creep in and eventually loses its right to exist. So the budget right of the Chamber is a very important point. As for the idea of fundsystematic, I'm not married to the instrument at all, but the point is that your investment is ready that you can also move across annual boundaries. Mr Van Raan also knows that I am making it a little bit more technical that in our current budgetary system and the cash liability system are simply released after one year. If you look at how, for example, investment departments do it, like IenW, then we also have a Mobility Fund so that you can transfer certain investments across annual boundaries. If you look at big investments that we are facing, including those in our energy infrastructure, then I think you should look at those kinds of solutions too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u25	It is not quite clear to me how these funds work. Does Mr Heinen now argue that we should move from a cash system to a benefit and expense system before we do this? How does that work? And again, how does he guarantee the budget law of this House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u26	I am not arguing for a benefit-burden system. I'm not in favour of that. By the way, of course, we do apply this to, for example, ZBOs, but for the state budget, I am in favour of a cash liability system. But for certain investment departments, you can work with funds, as we already do with the Mobility Fund and the Delta Fund, for example. What that should look like is, of course, something that should be discussed at the formation table. One of the criteria is how to ensure that we have democratic control of this and retain budgetary rights. I must honestly say that there is some tension there, because full budget law also means that we can amend it all. That's what we can decide. But just when you look at long-term investments, as a political one, you can also decide to draw up a number of frameworks together, as we do with the Growth Fund, for example. What's our goal? We invest in a certain category and think that there is growth in it, but some experts let us make choices about it. I think we should work together to find where the optimum lies, so where you do have that democratic control, on the one hand, the budgetary right of the Chamber, but on the other hand, you see how you can invest more long-term, with a little more vision, in bringing long-term goals closer to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you. First, Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union and then Mrs Gündoğan of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u28	When I see the VVD taking the occasional flight forward, I think: ooh, then they will want structuralally to tighten the thumb screws. I do have a question about that. There was a time when it was occasional about a cabinet period; four years an impulse left or right and then it was again after the cabinet period to a next cabinet. Now we are talking about ten or fifteen years in which tens of billions are spent on nitrogen. In terms of climate and energy, we are talking about a transition of at least 30 years, with a multitude of billions. My first question is: when is it actually occasional and when does it become structural? My second question will be asked in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u29	That's a cliffhanger. That is a nice philosophical question for financial economists: what is structural? I am making an argument in which I say that we can spend more money and increase public debt. That's what I say as a VVD man. I understand that the Chamber says: there might be a catch here, because the VVD is of financial discipline, right? We are. But the question is, what are you sending? I was never sent off balance myself, because that is ultimately a means and not an end. You need to see if your debt is sustainable. What exactly is the balance, also differs from the state of the economy and from what position you come from. If we want to know about structural expenditure, we must first analyse where we stand with the finances. The Macro-Economic Exploration gives a little insight into that. But there will also have to be a Medium-Term exploration of the MLT, as we know it here, to see what the frameworks are and how much space there is. I'll just say that space isn't infinite. I'm offering an opening to look at the sovereign debt to make certain major investments to structurally strengthen our economy. At the same time, I would also like to make sure that we open up all the shutters like a madman and forget that we are also pursuing healthy finances. That would be my answer to Mr Grinwis' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u30	We're probably gonna have a nice talk about that. My second question is actually more serious. A great risk if we do everything on an occasional basis is that we do not handle the executive power of the government and the market properly. Look at education: spending extra 8.5 billion in a few years is especially good news for the tutoring industry, if we are not careful. If we do not design an isolation programme or a climate and energy transition properly, then market players will not anticipate it. Then they do not dare to invest in new staff, because "it is all incidental and there is no long-term security." What lesson does Mr Heinen want to learn from this, to ensure that all this occasional violence does work sufficiently, long-term and programmatically? We do this, for example, with the Delta programme or with the MIRT. There are long-term objectives and annual views on funding. Of course, you can always discuss the height. But there's a view of goals and money. So we can work for a long year. Then the market, the government and the implementing organisations will know what they are up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u31	Oh, yeah. Nothing but the tutoring industry. I've been tutoring as a student for a side job. There was nothing more fun than to see how with a little effort you can open the eyes of a lot of children, because they suddenly see the quarter fall and understand some things. But that aside. Mr Grinwis' last point of interruption would be exactly my answer. We need to prevent you from throwing money into a fund at once, dead money, and throwing it over a fence without a proper guarantee and good frameworks. Mr Grinwis also mentions feasibility. That is a very valid point. This should be one of the criteria we are also looking at. Mr Grinwis also mentioned education. Mr Grinwis also mentioned education. We've had the NPO money, with which 8,5 billion has been released in one go. That is well spent money when it comes to eliminating backlogs. At the same time there have also appeared in the newspapers and on journal school directors saying: I am very happy with it, but I have to find a destination for it. Then I don't think we're doing very well as politicians. It's always about the plans first. Look at what needs to be done first. Then we look for funding as politics. The second you do that the other way around, you know it always goes wrong. So it will always go in that order for me. The systematic approach I advocate here can be a solution, taking the space together to finance and help shape large transitions in our economy. At the same time, it always starts with an analysis of the problem. Then we're gonna find out which plans go with that and then we're gonna find out which funding goes with that. Then we look at the shape in which we pour it. In that order, as far as I'm concerned, we have to work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt and then to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u33	I welcome the last part of Mr Heinen's contribution, namely that he wants to look differently. When I hear Mr Heinen speaking, I hear an accountant rather than a financial advisor: the budget, the budget, the budget. I've been watching that budget too. I'm not that intelligent, and I'll explain it later. I have looked at Mr Cnossen and Mr Jacobs' proposal to reform taxes. I haven't heard about that yet, but if we do, it'll give the Treasury an extra 40 billion. Does that still appear in your speech, or did you intend not to do so? Through the chairman, I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u34	I do not know the proposal, but if it produces money, it always means that the burden will rise somewhere or that certain tax reductions will disappear. You call Mr Jacobs. I know Mr Jacobs as an economist. He is a warm advocate for abolishing the mortgage interest deduction. I think that's what you're referring to. That'll pay for it. Yeah, for the treasury, but not for the people at home who just sit in a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u35	You say so, but in the meantime it makes the world much more just for those who do not own a house. In my view, this is what the IMF, Europe and certainly the RRF recommend to us with the country-specific criteria. You've been on DNB's work visit. Mr Knot also spoke here. I wonder how it is possible that the party that is so proud of financial discipline does not hear that reforming the housing market, and tackling the mortgage interest deduction, is a very important means of getting the housing market out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u36	I think that's a little short. First of all, you have heard me talk about the housing market. That was one of the problems this cabinet has to solve. There seems to be some sort of sacred journey against the mortgage interest deduction, because that's what you're referring to. That's nothing but increasing the burden of sitting homeowners. You're gonna have to explain this to me. You're in your house that you're thrilled with and proud of, and you're trying to get through the month. That's a little tricky, because you only have a few hundred euros left and hopefully your car or your washing machine won't break down. Then you're fully gonna argue that the mortgage interest subsidy might have to be paid and the tax increased? After all, that is good because it attracts the housing market smoothly. I disagree. That does not mean that I close my eyes to the reforms in the housing market that are necessary. I just think that we are holding the debate in this Chamber too one-sidedly, and we are doing so along party political lines where our hobbies are. I believe that we should look fully at the housing market, both the rental market and the buying market and the free rental sector. Then it is also about things like flow, where the liberalization limit is, about rent payments and about taxation of own property. That's all you need to get involved. Apart from where you build houses, the availability of the building land, it is therefore a problem with many facets. I think it is too easy to take one measure out of that and say: you have to do that, and the housing market is moving smoothly. It just doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u37	That's what Mr. Heinen makes of it. That's not what I said. I only notice that the mortgage interest deduction becomes a kind of restricted area to question it at all. By the way, about that nearly 40 billion, the box 1 reform is 25 billion. I would like to call everything into question when we are looking for reforms, which we are strongly advised to do. This is not party politics hobbyism, I find that kind of frames very disgusting. Everything must be put into question if we are to move the economy from the Netherlands to the 21st century. We need money for the climate transition, we need money to raise education, we need money for the housing market, and we need money to settle the health debt. We need so much money and here is EUR 40 billion with a different tax system. I challenge Mr Heinen to take this issue seriously once again with an open eye in accordance with Mr Klaas Knot's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u38	I hope that Mrs Gündoğan has known me for the past six months as someone who does not reason from instruments but always looks at the purpose and listens with an open eye to what other parties bring in solutions. I also believe that we should not impose taboos ourselves and hold stickhorses, but look sincerely at what the problems are and how we solve them. My argument is that you have to look at it in the broadest sense. The housing market has become a multifaceted monster, where we also have to look at rent, land, taxation, subsidies, you name it all. That's the width of the discussion I'd like to have. I note that too often one measure is taken. In the end, this is not going to solve the problems, we need to look at them widely. One more comment. I hear Mrs Gündoğan saying 'we need money'. I think a lot of Dutch people recognize themselves in that. I always call that out at the end of the month, and we still make a good living. We all need money, but that money needs to be earned first. If we can invest in this economy together in such a way that it will grow, then we will have more prosperity, more income, and then we can spend it. That would be my call: let us see in particular how these reforms can contribute to economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u39	I very much agree with that. Mr Heinen also knows that I am always looking for more economic growth, and preferably where the grey goes to the green economy. If I may summarize, I have heard Mr Heinen say that the mortgage interest deduction is not sacred, but that it is about the whole package. That's what Volt stands for. We are not crusading against the mortgage interest deduction, but we want to smooth the housing market. Everything is under discussion, so is the mortgage interest deduction. Is that right? Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u40	I'm sorry about that, actually. Mr Gündoğan, eh, Mrs Gündoğan. I'm sorry about this. I have short nights, but that has to do with my personal situation. I would like to say a few words, and I am sure you will see that again in this debate. By the way, it's a positive private situation. For everyone who looks at home and wonders what's going on: there comes from a separate baby room a pretty big sound to deep into the night. You started your last interruption quite hopefully. I saw a will to work together and see how we can strengthen that growth together. At the same time you ask in conclusion: "Do I hear the VVD say...?" and "let go again...?'. That reduces this debate to a plus-and-min list: have I been able to change a particular party's position? I do not really want to go along with that, because then I must also ask Mrs Gündoğan what she thinks of the rent subsidy, what she thinks of social housing and what she thinks of it. This reduces this debate to a plus-and-min list or to profit-and-loss accounts. We really shouldn't. We're gonna deal with that housing market together, but let's look at it in its entirety, without taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u41	Finally. I told you, we don't have holy houses. We're not having a crusade, either. Everything is under discussion and that was my second question. If that is the case with you, then we can find each other well in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u42	Then let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you. There are still a number of interruptions. First of all, Mr Alkaya, then Mr Hammelburg and then Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u44	We really need to do something about these pedals. Mrs Gündoğan must stand on the pedal to do an interruption. Of course, that's not doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u45	If the pedals don't go down, it means you don't suffer from coronakillos. You can take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u46	Maybe I can say something about that. There are others ordered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u47	Luckily, then Mrs Gündoğan can also normally make an interruption. We've already dived into the contents with the VVD. It is good in itself to exchange arguments here, but first I want to have a clear picture of what we are doing today. At the General Political Reviews we saw that the field was open. Suddenly we saw that there are a lot of different majorities to realize in the Chamber. For example, after years of decline, the tax on profits for large multinationals will rise again, against the will of the VVD. I ask the VVD today: are we back in such a situation? Are you prepared to look openly at all the proposals? Or have you agreed with the parties who are now negotiating the formation that you are going to shoot everything and that we are having a fictitious discussion today, but that it is not really going to matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u48	No, let me take that care away right away. The latter is certainly not the case. I always look at all the proposals with open eyes. I really hope you've gotten to know me this way for the last six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u49	That's hopeful. That's good. Indeed, I have only known Mr Heinen for six months, so these are his first General Financial Reviews. I therefore hope that we can do business today: business for the Netherlands, so that we can make the Netherlands fairer. This can be done, for example, with the landlord levy. It seems very much that the VVD is taking the whole of the Netherlands hostage on that subject. In the General Political Reviews we were able to remove a small part of it, but that whole levy is unfair. That whole tax is antisocial. Is Mr Heinen prepared today to see if we can get the entire landlord tax off with good coverage, so that living in the Netherlands will be affordable for everyone again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u50	In the General Political Reviews we have indeed jointly reduced the landlord's tax by half a billion. That was, by the way, conditional on the construction of the building. I liked the fact that together with the entire Chamber, everyone raised their hands for the motion to solve a number of problems, which everyone here considers important. I liked that. When we refer to the General Political Reviews, I also refer to an interrupting debate between Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Hermans. That was also precisely about this point. The leader of the PvdA group said: 'Yes, but I just want to get 100% of my way'. She said it in a different word, but this is the aftertaste. Mrs Hermans rightly said that we all want that. And I can't do that in the end. If we're all standing here with the setting "I'm not going home until I have 100% what I want," then we know one thing, namely that no one gets what they want. The tradition in the Netherlands is that you compromise together. That means you never get 100% of what you want, but your blessings count for what you get. If, during the last General Political Reviews, we were able to reduce the landlord's tax by half a billion and Mr Alkaya says less than a week later that he sees it as a kind of hostage situation in the Netherlands, I regret that. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u51	That's what I'm saying, because the VVD is getting more and more isolated on certain subjects. This may be a difficult observation, but this is about, for example, the tax on profits: according to the electoral programmes, there is simply a majority in the Chamber to further increase the tax on profits. It's also about the landlord's tax, which we can just get rid of completely. At the General Political Reviews I saw a turn in the right direction at the VVD. I'd like to go on like that today. I would not like to stop because we reached a compromise two weeks ago, and that is when it will be for the coming time. There's a missionary cabinet. If we do not take decisions here, no decisions will be taken for the Netherlands. We'll have a stop. That's what we have to prevent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u52	Yeah, you gotta stop stopping at all times. That doesn't mean that you always have to jump on a bike and ride. You always have to see where you want to ride your bike. However, I would say: let us continue this debate later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you. Mr Hammelburg of D66. No? Then Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u54	These are the General Financial Reviews. That's a nice debate. I am pleased that the VVD has released the taboo on increasing public debt. At least that's already a profit. This is also necessary for macroeconomic reasons. We're living in a new situation. The 60% and 3% date from an old age. This means something for the level of public investment. Where I find it difficult to follow what the VVD's bet is, is at the hook around the load frame. I find that complicated. We are talking about very large transitions, whether it is about climate, nitrogen, or the housing market. You can't just do that with occasional money. For that, you will also have to look at the burdens, at the price formation on both the housing market and on climate change and in agriculture. Does Mr Heinen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u55	I'm just trying to understand the question, to do justice to it in my answer. If I understand Mr Snels correctly, he asks me if I am prepared to look at the burden framework. That's a technical term. Actually, his question is whether I'm willing to raise taxes. My commitment, as long as I'm here in politics, will always be to lower taxes. I'll be very honest with you about that. Whether that always works is a second, but that will always be my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u56	This is exactly where the VVD deviates from the rest of the Chamber. Structural problems must be tackled with structural money. Let me give you an example. If we are going to subsidise the green transition, but do not tackle the subsidies, like all the exemptions for fossil fuels in the tax system, then we are not working effectively or effectively. If we are going to build a lot of houses and put public money into them, but not look at the tax system and the subsidies that are in them, then we are not doing it effectively and effectively. If we do not look at the price formation in agriculture, think of the agricultural exemption and the succession scheme, but we are going to spend a lot of money on buying out farmers, then we are not doing it effectively. I therefore believe that the VVD should not put a fence on the burden framework. That's what kills the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u57	We agree that we must always look at the efficiency of the budget. If I remind you of your election programme and its passing on, and take that into account, then I can see that a lot of jobs are structurally lost in your programme. So yes, I think we should look at efficiency together, but I fear that what we mean by efficiency is not always the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u58	I do not quite understand this remark. This is about the general equilibrium models of the CPB, where there is a minority in what, for example, reforms in the tax system mean. That wasn't even quantitative. I think there are better outcomes. What I am watching for is that the major transitions must also be done effectively and effectively through Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. You can't just do that like some kind of Santa Claus. That seems to be a bit of the VVD's commitment: we do give large bags of money, but we do not want to look at the problems structurally; Room, we give you a lot of money for agriculture, climate and the housing market, but where there are structural errors... The Court said it six months ago: there is 100 billion in ineffective tax exemptions and subsidies in the tax system. The VVD won't look at that. Only when you look at that will you come to an integral solution for all those big transitions that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr Snels refers to Saint Nicholas. If I continue with that example, it does seem like a little package night. I always give a lot of presents to my little boy and he especially says what he didn't get. I get that feeling here, too. Mr Snels mentioned Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Not everyone at home will know exactly what this is, but article 3.1 among financial spokesmen is a very important article in the Compatibility Act. It is about the efficiency of expenditure. We all have a high priority here. However, it often wants to differ exactly what we mean by efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u60	My question will take a slightly different direction. In my view, the VVD used to be the party of financial solidity. Mr Heinen is still trying to convey that. But let us be very clear: he wants to put tens of billions into funds, he wants to raise public debt, and he assumes that interest rates remain low. But in the note on the state of the country's finances, you also see scenarios in which interest rises. Doesn't he just move the problem forward or backwards, it's just how you look at it? We're going on the capital market now and we're gonna borrow cheaply. But someday, let's say 30 years from now, that's gonna have to be repaid. How are we gonna do that without you getting into the left-hand box by raising taxes? Or are we just gonna do that by not spending anything at all and ruining the country? I wonder how that goes, because I can't make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u61	This is always beautiful. If you look here at the left box, you don't go far enough and look at the right box, then you actually go too far. Let's just say the truth is in the middle. Mr Stoffer rightly raises the question of how much you can actually borrow from future generations. After all, the public debt must also be repaid. This is a very right point, which we should also look at. At the same time, there are a number of issues that we know will only increase over time. These costs will also be borne by future generations. That's how you transfer problems to future generations. We have a duty to resolve those problems, which you know will increase into the future, in the present and future. If the financial frameworks are too limited for this, then we should also look at public debt, because it may prevent higher costs in the future. In that case, I think it is fair to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u62	That sounds nice, but it's like a mortgage. You can think: 30 years will be fine. But if you don't pay off anything, you're at the end with a whole bucket of debt, which you may or may not be able to deduct in 30 years' time, but if it's Volt and so on, not before. Luckily, you're still a little bit sure about that. But how's it going in 30 years with that much higher debt? Are we going to increase the burden after all? Or are we saying that in between we are also taking measures to reduce public debt, in whatever scenario and regardless of what it does with interest rates? I really want a quick and ready answer from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u63	The sustainability of public debt is very important. As far as I am concerned, this debate must be leading, even when it comes to how far we are going to go. Where's the government debt going? It should go down and not go up. We agree on that. In Europe, the same debate is now taking place on the European budgetary rules in the revision of the European Stability and Growth Pact. There too you see a shift: are you looking at the deficit standards or are you looking at the sustainability of public debt? We agree that we need to look at the sustainability of public debt. They have to descend rather than rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u65	I will continue with my speech. I'll go straight to the rounding. Before the interruptions started, I indicated that the combination of high public debt was already talking about low growth and a broad monetary policy could lead us to face very great challenges. Then I'm really gonna finish this. I began my speech by saying that the Millions note tells two different stories: a country in crisis and a country coming out of the crisis. With great challenges for us: security, defence, delayed maintenance of our infrastructure, sustainability of our economy. That's the story we have yet to write. The good news is that we are in an exceptional situation. The financial space is there, the basis is there and the solutions are there. Now it comes to the political will to solve these problems together. When I look around, I'm hopeful. I see a new generation of politicians, averse to political games. Politicians who want to work together and bridge differences. We now have the unique opportunity to build a new, modern and clean economy together. I'd like to get to work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u66	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u67	I deliberately waited until the end, because I thought, "Maybe it's coming." The civilians! The citizens of this country. Mr Heinen is only talking about sustainability, defence, infrastructure and indeed a little housing. But according to an Ipsos survey, half the Dutch citizens say they won't make it to the end of the month. A quarter of a million Dutch people have problematic debts. They were called "working poor" by the SER last week. One and a half million families have payment problems, problematic debts and poverty. That's what caused the VVD. You say that I stand here as a Member of Parliament representing the people for the reduction of taxes, but so far in ten years VVD everything has only become more expensive and taxes have become higher. The energy tax has doubled in ten years. The VAT went to 21%. The VAT on groceries went to 9%. The own risk went to €385. Pensions were not indexed. You've stripped everyone to the bone in ten years of VVD. Now you come with a story to the future. All I hear is: sustainability, defence, a little infrastructure and that we really need to solve the housing market in an integral way. I don't hear anything about the citizens here. How will the citizens with this cabinet, with the VVD, make it back to the end of the month?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u68	Citizens live in homes, drive on roads and have jobs, which means an economy has to grow. This story is ultimately about the people in the country. But, Mr President, allow me to reply a little longer. I think Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV is always very good at naming the problems. There are. Let me put that in front of you. At the same time, I think he is always speaking quite unilaterally here. I hear Mr Van Dijck, for example, on the energy bill. The energy bill is rising, and that's worrying. In the General Political Reviews, we have released half a billion dollars for relief. Is that enough? Probably not. In the Netherlands we are closing coal power stations and we are going off the Groninger gas. This means that we become more dependent on abroad when it comes to gas. Then my proposal would be: let us invest in our own energy supply. There are a number of ways we can do that. This can be done by investing in solar energy and wind energy, but I do not hear Mr Van Dijck on that. So Mr Van Dijck is not in favour of using Groninger gas. Mr Van Dijck is not here to say that we need to build more coal plants, but he is also opposed to windmills and solar parks. He also opposes nuclear energy. Oh, not that. That will be a gain in this debate. But at the same time, what is his solution? The load relief isn't good enough. Alternative energy forms aren't good enough. Domestic energy sources that we already had should also be removed. What is Mr Van Dijck's solution to such problems? You can name them all, but can I challenge you to come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u69	First of all, I'm here in the Chamber to check the cabinet, the VVD. I'm exposing something. Ten years of VVD means ten years of tax increase. This is so bad that even half of the Netherlands says not to make it to the end of the month. This was caused by the VVD, because the VVD only had an eye for Europe. You are more concerned with the Italians than with the Dutch. As a present, you're transferring $11 billion to Italy. "Please, do something nice with it." In Italy, they have reduced VAT rates on energy. In Italy, they have reduced energy costs for 6 million citizens. In other words, thank you, the Netherlands. With our money, the energy bills in Italy are reduced. What do you do for Dutch citizens? Indeed, with the General Political considerations you have freed €50 per household. Instead of the tax going up next year €20, the tax is now going down €30, at an amount of €550 that is going to be paid more. That's a crumb. You must act like the Italians: you must reduce the burden on the citizens of this country. If you're really smart, you'll let the Italians pay for it, because that's what the Italians do to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u70	That's the last thing I have to laugh about. There is nothing wrong with the Italians, but Mr Van Dijck concludes that we must act more like the Italians. I'd like to ask him which one it should be later. Here again, Mr Van Dijck's speech is one-sided. I'm really starting to suck. The PVV takes up a major subject of this Parliament. Many voters voted for the PVV. Mr. Van Dijck, please come up with solutions. You are right to raise the question of citizens' purchasing power, but do you know what is one of the reasons why purchasing power is under pressure? The care, the care premiums. At the same time I always hear from your profession: there must be more, more, more, more, more to care. If there is even one measure to make care costs manageable, these are not cuts, but simply more efficient and more efficient, more fun on the workplace. I am glad that the microphones are now cleaned during Corona, otherwise they are constantly wet in the PVV compartment. It's not normal, you're just standing here telling me what's not right. But if you really care about purchasing power, then look at what the purchasing power is. One of the factors is the rise in healthcare contributions, but I do not hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u71	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u72	And that's what I'm saying through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u73	No, indeed, we do not want rising care premiums either. We want different priorities. The VVD simply chooses not for the Netherlands, not for the Dutch, but for other things. You're bringing 5 billion to Africa. That's important to you. Every year you transfer 10 billion to Brussels, so that Brussels can distribute it to countries like Poland, Greece and other net recipients. You think that's important, 10 billion to be part of that club in Brussels. We say: keep that money in the Netherlands, give it to the Dutch, reduce the excise duty on petrol. For every litre of petrol that is being fueled, this Minister of Finance takes €1.15. I pay €2 per litre and €1.15 goes to his wallet. I don't think that's fair. We're crazy Henkie. Everyone's filling up in Belgium. Get those Belgians to fill up here! We used to be a lot smarter. I am thinking of the wallet of the Dutch and you are thinking of all other things, of the Dutch in the last place. You will say: yes, but I have given €30 discount on the energy bill, at €550 increase. What are you talking about? You must put the Dutch on one side, not Europe, the asylum industry, all those southern European countries, Africa and all those subsidies for windmills and so on. Put the Netherlands on one, build nuclear power plants for all I care. And you are doing something about the CO reduction, even if that is not what we are talking about at all. But at least we are doing something about the energy bill for the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u74	Thank you. I'd also like to ask you to talk through the chairman. That's what we agreed on. I call Mr Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u75	Again a bit the double tongue of Mr Van Dijck. On the one hand, the Italians are the source of all evil and then we have to look like the Italians again. Climate policy is bad, but let us build nuclear power plants to reduce CO. Honestly, I don't follow the whole argument anymore. What I get out of it is: think more about the people's wallet. That's where we agree. But your solution, which is then one direction of solution that I drew from your speech, is: we need to get rid of Europe. We're in Europe, so that's pretty tricky. But I think you mean the European Union. Do you know how many jobs will be lost if we leave the European Union? You can say 'we'll transfer less money to Brussels', but what good will it do if you don't have your job? You'll lose your job and you won't be able to pay your mortgage or your children's education!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u76	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer. "Talking through the chairman" means that we don't say "you, you, you," but "sir" or "ma'am." Those are a bit of the rules we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u77	That's what I'm gonna do. On the same theme, because this is a big concern. Already when the Millions note came out, the PvdA together with GroenLinks made proposals on purchasing power. The economy is likely to grow by more than 3% next year, while everyone is on the zero line. That's actually what it looks like. Energy prices are added: €400 or €500 additional energy costs. So people are going backwards next year. That's not gonna help with last week's repairs. That's a few tens on €400 to €500. I didn't hear from the VVD about that. Energy poverty is rising. People put on thick sweaters. Some people don't even dare turn on the heat anymore. If you are in a rental house that is poorly insulated, you pay €300 per month. As an AOW'er you are often at home.People who work during the day are often not at home, although they are now with corona, but well.. and you just can't afford it. What is the answer of the VVD: is there anything left to do for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u78	This demand will monitor the increase in the energy account and related purchasing power. This indeed puts the purchasing power under pressure, I agree. Some of the money that we have reserved for this in the General Political Reviews, half a billion euros, goes to lower-income households. The tax reduction on the energy tax will ensure that this is done. Mr Nijboer puts that away with 'that's a couple of tens', but I think those tens really make the difference for those households to get through the month. I therefore believe that Mr Nijboer should not be light about this. That in the first place. In addition, I believe that we should look beyond tomorrow's day in politics and how we are going to solve the problem of rising energy bills. Those are big issues. We do a number of things. We're going off the Groninger gas, right? We're shutting down coal power stations, right? This makes us more dependent on abroad when it comes to gas. This means that we are either at the mercy of the markets, which are very fluctuating. We are now seeing a great demand for gas, which increases prices. Or we're gonna redesign our power supply here. That's in wind energy, in solar energy, but also in nuclear energy. One of the ways to counteract the fluctuations in the energy bill is to build nuclear power plants. Why don't I hear PvdA about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u79	The PvdA wants to say something about that, I hear outside the microphone, but D66 also wants to say something about that. I have a very simple question for Mr Heinen. When should the first nuclear power plant be built and up and running to be able to talk about today's energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u80	So it won't be there tomorrow. We've already got some. You can keep it open longer. At the same time, investment in new plants takes a long time. So it is not a solution for tomorrow. I think that's kind of the underlying idea. With regard to the short-term problem, you will have to keep a very close eye on what happens to the energy bill. You shouldn't rule out unorthodox measures. But another way is to fill your national gas reserves, for example. That is one of the questions the VVD has asked recently. How are we gonna handle this? Times we didn't have to think about that because of course we are on a large gas field ourselves. Now that we close the gas extraction in Groningen, we also need to think about strategic reserves so that you have your own reserves to exhaust in the event of shortages in the international market. Those are short-term measures you can think of. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm done with my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u81	Then thank you very much, Mr. Heinen. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u82	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, something hopeful happened in this room. After a steady decline that lasted more than 40 years, Parliament forced the tax on profits paid by large companies in our country to increase at last. This is encouraging, not because we like to tax, but because the tax for people can be reduced and we can pay collective expenditure. This will make our society fairer and stronger. The increase in the salary of the care staff paid with this increase is a much-needed step in the right direction, towards better appreciation for all those indispensable people in our public sector. It is also encouraging that, after years of struggle, the bill of this salary increase does not end up with the same people again, for example through cuts or something like that, but is paid by the large companies, by multinationals. Mr. Chairman. The increase in the tax on profits for large companies is also encouraging because it represents a declining ideology which has been preached in this Chamber for far too long and by far too many parties. That's the ideology that assumes that if things go well with the elites, we'll all be fine automatically. The Netherlands is not alone in thinking in this revolution. Also in the United States and in the United Kingdom, the tax on profits for large companies and multinational companies increases after years of decline. So that's absolutely right. For profit is only a blessing if it is invested in society, in a sustainable, healthy and safe country, and not if it disappears into the pockets of a single person somewhere or in a tax haven. Time must finally be over when people have to work overtime to survive, while we all make a small elite of consultants, shareholders and top executives richer and richer without seeing anything of it ourselves and also destroying our own planet in that process. That time must definitely be behind us. For the Socialist Party, therefore, this turning point is only a beginning. The tax on the highest profits was 48% in 1980. At the beginning of this century it was 35%. Therefore, the SP will continue the struggle to distribute more fairly the profits that we all achieve as a society. This battle takes place on the one hand in the workplace, through higher wages, collective profit sharing and a democratic economy, but here too, in this Chamber, by raising fair taxes so that the burden on people can be reduced. But let us not forget that the coalition of parties that wanted to reduce the tax on profits for large companies to 21.7% is now forming a new government again. Let us not forget that the CDA's negotiator, our finance minister, has a great credibility problem right now when it comes to fair taxation. So I am hopeful about the changing spirit of time in the world and in our country, but that will not automatically lead to fair taxes, not with this coalition and not with these rulers, unless the Cabinet and the Finance Minister prove otherwise here today, unless we can continue on the path taken during the General Political Reviews and on the first steps that have been taken. Does the Minister of Finance share our concerns about the taxation of labour in the Netherlands, which is among the highest in the European Union? This is 21.3% of the economy, while the tax on capital is still below the EU average by 4.7% of the same economy in the Netherlands. Like the SP, does he see opportunities to reduce taxation for households, including the unfair energy tax that is currently affecting everyone, and to increase the tax on capital and capital, especially working capital, in order to further restore the balance in our economy? Is this outgoing cabinet prepared to make proposals to the House of Representatives on this matter? Mr. Chairman. On Princess Day, as a Socialist Party, we presented our alternatives to government policy, with a stamp from the Central Planning Office for those who consider it important, as the only opposition party. In this the SP shows that there are fundamentally different choices within one year, without increasing the deficit in our country by even one cent. What does the government think of our alternatives? Fortunately, some of these alternatives have already been taken over by this Chamber, because we were in a unique position that parties could suddenly vote what they really wanted, not hostage to the VVD. But not all alternatives have yet been placed in the motion in question. For example, the minimum wage remains the same, while at least a minimum wage of €14 per hour is needed to make labour pay again in our country. People get a small discount on their income tax, but there is still a lot of room between the lowest disk of income tax and the highest disk of income tax. We see the same kind of unfair difference in energy taxation. It's gonna stay in place, too. There is a factor of 30 between what the large industry pays tax on a cubic meter of gas and what households pay. Unfortunately, that difference remains. But also the landlord levy remains largely in place, despite all promises in election time. In this way, the injustice remains that people living in a social housing unit pay extra taxes in our country, while people who already have money to buy their own property receive a disproportionately high tax discount. Mr. Chairman. Living is a right, for everyone, but successive cabinets led by right-wing parties have taken that right away from people. Unfortunately, it is no longer a right in our country. Now they say they're sorry. That's good, but in regret, people can't live either. While rich investors with no face and no roots in our country buy up our homes from a tropical island, hundreds of thousands of people in the Netherlands can no longer find an affordable home. Therefore, the small reduction in the landlord's tax, like the small increase in the income tax, is a first small step in the right direction. But that's far from enough to restore the balance sheet, especially if you realize that part of that discount is being cancelled again because the value of the houses increases, which also increases the landlord's tax paid. In order to really change course, the government must be prepared to tackle those wealthy investors, those wealthy investors who are buying up our homes massively and are invisible and elusive, but cause so much damage. How many homes could a single investor have in our country, according to the government? What does the Minister still think is reasonable? What else does the cabinet think is reasonable? Is there a limit to that? Is the government prepared to expropriate these predatory capitalists, who buy our houses and do not pay taxes, such as Blackstone, in the extreme, as the majority of Berlin's inhabitants have just said in a referendum? Our message to the predatory capitalists is clear: there is no place for you in the Netherlands. As soon as the Socialist Party gets its say, we will demand our homes back and distribute them as affordable rentals among the thousands of people who cannot find an affordable home now but need it. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case, but at the very least what the government can do now is to abolish the unfair landlord's tax altogether and exempt housing associations from the tax on profits, so that they do not suffer from it. For this we will continue to table motions and amendments until these anti-social taxes are removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u83	There is an interruption by Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u84	Of course I'm not the youngest anymore and this reminds me a bit of a song by Printwork from 1980, "Let the rich pay for the crisis," but that aside. Mr Alkaya says: 'These predatory capitalists do not belong in the Netherlands or we are going to remove them from the Netherlands'. That sounds a bit nasty, but how does he intend to do that in practice and what exactly does he mean by "predatory capitalists"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u85	To begin with, that is, of course, a broad concept. I have often argued in favour of dealing with predatory capitalists who, for example, buy up our companies and come here with a bag of money and think that they have all the control over the economy. Unfortunately, this is often true in practice. We've seen that in several companies. Then they come up with a bag of money, buy it up, sell it in a few years' time everything that has value, such as patents and real estate, so they get their deposit right back, then they let the company go bankrupt. Specifically with regard to our housing, these are companies that can offer huge amounts of money for homes in our big cities, where no private, no start-up, no person can compete, so that half of the homes in some big cities already go to these types of companies that then add no value and pay no tax, but increase the rents and then parasitize on our economy and on our people's housing. That is what we want and are going to do. That means that you can also set a limit, as the majority of Berlin's residents have already said, on the number of houses that a private individual may own. Housing is a right and we must also dare to take other far-reaching measures, otherwise it will remain as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u86	Interesting argument. I would ask Mr Alkaya to look more closely at the venture capitalism in general. They're not all asset strippers. There are also venture capitalists who buy and repair a company and thus ensure that such a company does not go bankrupt, also by making funds available for itself. But I find the following very fundamental question much more interesting. However, the right to property is almost sacred. But as far as SP is concerned, doesn't that apply to expropriation? To be honest, I find that very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u87	Under the first protocol of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the right to property applies, which I also recognise, but an exception can also be made in the public interest. Looking at our people's housing, that public interest is very great. Thousands of people can't find a place to live. As a result, we believe that such unorthodox measures should be discussed. Actually, I think that's perfectly normal. We also have discussions of this kind in other areas, for example in the case of farmers. Expropriation happens. It's an ultimate consequence. This does not mean that the right to property is not important, but it does not mean that it is sacred. The public interest is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u88	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u89	We have seen in the corona crisis how an assertive and entrepreneurial government can save lives and make an economic crisis more fair. At the same time, we have seen in the surcharge scandal how much human suffering can cause a suspicious and withdrawn government, how, in a government organisation without a human face and without an eye for society, people can be reduced to file numbers, how people can be humiliated by their own government, which on the other hand pampers foreign multinationals with secret tax agreements. The cabinet was right about this almost a year ago, but people are still in the shit now, while people have to see that those same parties are forming a new government again. How does the Minister of Finance feel if less than 10% of the notified victims are fully compensated by the supplement scandal? Not even 10%! Is this unwillingness or is this incompetence? My appeal to the cabinet is: solve it or clean up the field. Mr. Chairman. Money's not the problem. The money's here. For years the EU has been working as a straitjacket for our country because of the tight and short-sighted budgetary rules, but fortunately that is no longer the case. Those compelling budgetary rules have been unleashed in the corona crisis. Fortunately, because it is precisely because of this that we are not in a recession with on top of that still right-wing cuts and balding as it was after the banking crisis. Does the Minister of Finance share the view that the Netherlands is not waiting for dictatorships or a straitjacket from Brussels? It is time to put people at the centre of public policy rather than multinationals or macroeconomic figures. We can make care of everyone better and more affordable if we take care of that organisation together, if we organise it together instead of leaving care to the market. We can build sustainable, beautiful and affordable houses if we do not leave our housing to rich investors abroad. So we can drastically improve the material conditions of people so that they are truly free in their lives and not limited by the pursuit of a small elite abroad towards ever more money. The Socialist Party is therefore hopeful about the future of our country but not naive. We did not end up at this turning point by ourselves, but by organisation and struggle. And that battle is far from over!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then I give the floor to Mr Hammelburg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. We have often heard it come along lately: the biggest post-war shrinkage of the economy, the biggest post-war cuts in the budget and the largest post-war crisis in the Netherlands. It is right and understandable that the cabinet itself has been in crisis lately. My compliments on the way the cabinet has worked so hard and led us through the pandemic. Yeah, there might have been differences of opinion. And yes, we have also had a good debate on these different insights in the debates, but there has been a lot of hard work and the Dutch economy is doing well for the time being. Mr. Chairman. The pandemic has also left its mark and exposed many vulnerabilities. Children have been lagging behind in education, social inequality has increased and climate change is growing much more rapidly than we anticipated. The reports don't lie about it. All this, while tackling the pandemic has claimed all our attention and the climate has been put a little behind schedule. At the same time, the shortage of housing in the Netherlands is also increasing. Mr. Chairman. During the General Political Reviews we talked about the challenges of the here and now. The parties from the left to the right, and then I also looked at Mr Alkaya, who actually agreed: it was a refreshing, open debate in which we looked at the various wishes of the parties to see if we could find each other somewhere, especially now that we are recovering from this coronapandemic. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to continue this debate and look forward to generations. I would really like to look to the future instead of the year to come. That is what Mr Heinen said in his speech. I wholeheartedly support that, because it is about the challenges for the future. I actually want to do that in the tradition of the policy makers right after the last huge crisis we were dealing with. We have often talked about "the biggest crisis since World War II." So let's look at the policy-makers at the time: how they poached their sleeves and made the economy grow, so that now, decades later, we can still benefit from it. Let us see how, in times of mourning, they could step over the shadows and differences of opinion and work together, in the Netherlands, but also internationally, by building Europe and playing a leading role in the international community and by further developing that role. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this should be our example, in order to prevent us from being destroyed and further divided. That's what I'm thinking. It's a mission that the Netherlands needs right now, one that we need to get started on right now. This starts with working on a Dutch government, which ensures that Dutch people have confidence in economic growth and in a government that is there for them and works for them. I am not talking about stock exchange prices and I am not talking about growth forecasts or consumer confidence. It is about the confidence that the government is working on an economy and on policies that offer opportunities with an optimistic future perspective. What good is economic growth if the Netherlands is flooded? What is the use of a few decimal places of additional purchasing power, so really behind the decimal place, with which the starters of the next generation still can't buy a house and people still can't pay their rent? And what good is a low public debt in ten years' time, which only pays off for some of our children, while the other children have to raise their children in poverty again? Mr. Chairman. I'm worried about that. Actually, seeing which country we leave with a budget really requires a different look. In this respect, I found the Minister's speech in the presentation of the Millions Note very hopeful. Let me start with that. Let us indeed look at ways of enriching the economic curriculum. I thought that was a very valuable remark. But at the same time, at the same time, the problem is that the Minister said: let's leave the gay economicsman behind us, because he doesn't exist. I would suggest: let us really do so. I also look at the VVD, because if I were Hans Wiegel now, I would say: the gay economist, there he is, there behind that table! Actually, I just miss the notion of "wide prosperity" in the Millions Note. Yeah, it's called, but it's still not leading. Mr Van Raan, you just said that in an interruption to Mr Heinen's speech of the VVD. I'm saying this through the chairman, because I'm about to get my ass kicked. Yeah, I'll pay attention! As far as I am concerned, the way in which we look at broad prosperity in this Millions note is simply not enough. A number of challenges have been identified, such as the challenges for the future. There is a separate page dedicated to that. Those are short texts. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's very short, without any directions or ideas on where to go in the future. Fortunately, we now have a great many parties here, nineteen people who have very good ideas about this and we can have the debate on this. But I had hoped that there would already be some more perspective or at least solutions in that Millions note. Mr. Chairman. Once again, let us put that gay economist behind us and not stare blindly at gross domestic product or public debt. Mr Heinen just said that. I was surprised. Let me say: I was pleasantly surprised. Blind staring at gross domestic product, at the state debt, at the moment, with all the challenges it poses, makes sure that we really have a tunnel vision and not talk about the costs that we will have in the future for not acting now. That is why I am putting three questions at the centre. How do we take immediate responsibility for tackling climate change? How are we going to better control the prosperity of people, nature and climate? And how do we deal with investment in, for example, education, science, digitalisation, innovation, and I can continue in this way to make the economy actually grow responsibly and to meet the major challenges not only from now on but also from later on? That is what we must do without getting bogged down in a debate about where these toughest burdens lie and about taxes. I would also like to say to Mr Alkaya that we are going to talk about this in the Tax Plan. But I really want to take a look at the challenges. Let me start with the climate. That is our greatest challenge, and we must act now. The EUR 6.2 billion that the cabinet is now releasing is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to reach the Paris Agreement in the near future. We need to do a lot more. My group chairman, Sigrid Kaag, could not say it more accurately. In very simple words, she said: in tomorrow's society, there is no place for burning oil or for CO emissions. It's a very simple remark. But we have to. Too often in the debate I, too, am dealt with in the interrupting microphone with the killer 'the climate does not keep to borders, so let us not do much, because those others do not'. It just doesn't go on. It's really too late for that. Even throwing a few big stones in the Dutch pond is not enough. We must take action in the Netherlands, but we must also lead the way in Europe and in the world. I mean, for example, supporting developing countries in the climate transition. I mean that we strongly urge our Dutch companies, investors and financial institutions operating abroad to make this green change. We must show the example, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the world. That means we have to stop subsidies and tax reductions for the fossil industry. Mr Van Raan is already standing up, I see. It means that we really need to green export credits and that our pension funds need to invest sustainably. Mr. Chairman. I therefore ask the Minister: how do we ensure that our financial sector is sustainable? I'd like a reflection. I ask the Minister to make an effort to ensure that the Dutch financial institutions report on sustainability risks according to the framework of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u93	I welcome the words of Mr Hammelburg. Indeed, we both recognise the importance of broad prosperity. We see the indicators of the wide prosperity in the here and now operating nicely. But we also see together that we are later in the red. We also see an agreement in dealing with fossil subsidies. I'm glad to see that. I call 6.8 billion for climate policy, while spending 8.6 billion on fossil subsidies. Of course you can't. Let us not talk about the past, in which Mr Hammelburg's party regularly did not participate in the abolition of these fossil subsidies. But let's mark that from now on it may be quite different. Maybe we can table some motions on that together. I'm looking forward to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u94	I would also like to thank the Animal Party for this open dialogue. We are often in the same position. Sometimes we see the solutions a little differently. I refer to the question of how do you deal with growth? That's about shrinkage versus sustainable growth. Those are fundamental discussions. But I will make Mr Van Raan even more happy with the second part on broad prosperity that I was just about to begin with. I see a thumb up in the room. That was my second question, Mr President: how can we better steer this broad prosperity? When it comes to D66, the insights from the Monitor Brede Welvaart get a prominent and above all steering place in the Millions note, but also in the estimates of the CPB. Last year we adopted the Van Raan/Wassenberg motion. That was, of course, a very interesting one in this context. My question to the Minister is therefore: does the Minister really think that this motion has been sufficiently implemented? When I look like that, I think, "Mwah." This Minister is, of course, also triple-demissionary, so my question would be: is the Minister prepared to work hard on it in the near future, if he himself is not quite satisfied with the implementation of the motion? That's a bit of a tricky question. I'm aware of that. But I'm considering a motion. I am also looking at Mr Van Raan through the President, well, I do not think that the President should look at him for a possible second term, depending on the Minister's reply, of course. Mr. Chairman. Property and debt are also taken into account in a broad sense. In addition to financial and economic capital, we are, of course, talking about social and human capital. Then a clear link is made with the extent to which the Netherlands is fulfilling the United Nations' sustainable development goals. I don't hear it much here either. Mr. Chairman. If we really want to take broad prosperity seriously, GDP as an economic indicator can still exist, but we are decoupling GDP growth and economic growth. The government also publishes the real net domestic product, in which damage to the capital stock and the depletion of our raw materials are simply counted. Can the Minister reflect on such an indicator and its use in the policy cycle? Mr. Chairman. Even if we have the indicators in a good balance, we must, of course, make the right financial arrangements as a political one. That's what my third block is about. Agreements on how large the deficits in our sovereign debt may be, agreements on which rules are being applied and how we can make the overall balance possible. I found the opening shot of the VVD a very interesting one, because that would be about my direction. I'm saying, of course, "sort of." There is still really enough to do in both areas. The major challenges of this time call for investment, in education, in science, digitalisation, innovation, sustainability, tackling social inequality, nitrogen and so on, and so on. Without this approach, our economy cannot continue to grow. We, as D66, have been in favour of sound and sound financial policies for years. But what helps future generations if we keep public debt low because of savings that are at the expense of climate debt or the biodiversity debt they have to pay off in later generations? I would therefore like to catch up once again with my former colleague, Van Weyenberg, to ensure that we anchor the national budget rules in addition to the bid against financial aviation, also offered against climate-related air cycling. The Minister undertook to further develop the idea of climate coverage or climate frameworks in the Spring Paper. What's going on with that, anyway? Can we just expect a CO budget next year at Prinsjesdag? If it's up to us, there's gonna be one. Mr. Chairman. I need to look at the time a little bit. I would just like to say a few words about the budgetary rules. As far as I am concerned, they are now too focused on the way the government is doing its old business: some spending here, some compensation there. But if we want to tackle all the crises that we have ahead of us: climate, nitrogen, Groningen, the surcharge affair, and then we have to put those budgetary rules back on the table right away, then I would ask the Minister how he looks at a system in which we are going to make a greater distinction between government consumption and investment in the budget rules. Mr President, in conclusion, I am already in the lurch. The key question is how to make enough room for the climate crisis, for the inequality of opportunity and the housing crisis and how to make decisions on the basis of a broader concept of prosperity than just GDP. Let us make budgetary agreements that will also make the Netherlands future-proof, for us, our children and our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u95	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA and then to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u96	A nice speech about the broad concept of prosperity. I do have a question about the housing crisis. Last week, or two weeks ago, it was decided that half a billion of the landlord's tax would go off. But now we know that the increase in the value of these houses is so enormous that the landlord's tax actually threatens to rise by a few hundred million and that it really doesn't help. Is there any mention with D66 of the problem of the rising value of houses, which, of course, these housing corporations cannot do anything about, and which means that they do not really have the space to invest in affordable housing, but also in making them more sustainable, to repair a little extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u97	I am most certainly aware of that. Nor have I said for nothing, like my group chairman, that the Hermans motion and, for example, the half billion for landlord tax is a step forward. The same applies to all the other subjects in the motion. But yes, if we are now looking at the housing crisis, the affordability, the sustainability, but also the production numbers that really need to go up, then we just need to ensure that we have an affordable and sustainable home for everyone. We need to do that as soon as possible. Then that calls for an integrated approach. That has to do with how we deal with corporations and with their investment power. About how you shape that, you can have a difference of opinion. However, it is clear that the housing corporations need more room for manoeuvre in order to build social housing, but also in order to build middle-priced rentals. That must also be sustainable and affordable, so I share that with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u98	The question was: can the landlord levy be reduced a bit? Actually, the answer is no. It's as simple as that. Of course, that's a shame to hear. Mr Hammelburg starts off with a lot of great challenges that we have and that we need to think about the end of the world, but many people are thinking about the end of the month. The burden is too high and incomes are too low. At the moment when you allow people to establish their security of existence, so that they no longer have uncertainty about it, they can only think about other things, such as the end of the world. So if Mr Hammelburg is saying that he does not want to think any further about lowering that landlord's tax or even abolishing the landlord's tax, I think your position is that you want to get rid of it, then he will not keep his own electoral promise. Isn't it very hard to establish that here, only six months after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u99	I'd have to rewind the tape to see if I said that. I don't think I said that. What I have said is that there are a lot of different things that need to be done in this regard, as far as I am concerned, you should also look at the landlord's tax in order to deal with this housing crisis. So I didn't say you shouldn't do anything with that landlord tax. Mr Alkaya knows our election programme very well. He also mentions a number of things. But let me just be clear about it: a lot has to be done. It's not just about the landlord tax. There are a lot of different measures to deal with this housing crisis. That is what you should expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u100	I actually expect every political party to keep its promises. Another promise is to tackle inequality. That's why we've been hanging out with your predecessor before. It's not about opportunity inequality. It is also important to invest in education and ensure that everyone can be a quarter of a dime. But it's simply about inequality right now. Then a higher levy on higher capital is an option. I also pointed to the cabinet: taxes on capital in the Netherlands are low. We asked together for a millionaire tax, a millionaire tax. You've also brought a good media machine at D66 with you several times: D66 wants a millionaire stake. He's still not here. Shouldn't we at least propose here today that we make millionaires pay extra taxes to tackle inequality in the Netherlands, so that the purchasing power of ordinary people can get something up again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u101	When we talk about taxation: to tackle this social inequality in the Netherlands, you need to reform taxation. You need to reform the fees. You have to make sure you go from taxes on income to taxes on wealth. You have to make sure the polluter pays. That is what we have in mind. I agree with Mr Alkaya that you need to look more at power, because that is what we were talking about. Less tax on income, more on wealth and fairer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u102	I wonder if the spokesperson of D66 has ever been in a normal neighborhood and talked to normal people there. Because it seems like this speech was written by Frans Timmermans. It is only about sustainability, indicators and the sustainability of the UN. The ordinary man on the street is now, as we speak, listening to this story of yours with a blanket around him. What do you have to offer those 550,000 people who live in energy poverty and who are no longer able to pay their energy costs? What do you have to offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u103	I grew up in welfare. I know what it's like to lower the stove a little bit, because you feel that poverty and you can't pay the bill. That means you don't have the guts to go to the dentist and you don't have a car at the door anymore, because you can't afford the smallest repair costs. Mr Hammelburg knows very well what that feels like. He's been through it personally; he grew up like this. But the problems I'm talking about apply to all these people. If we do not act now on climate and inequality, and if we do not work together at European level and in the world because we cannot deal with this problem, then it is children and their children who have far greater problems. We really need to avoid these problems. I hear the PVV recounting it. I never hear them come up with solutions. You did that in a small debate with the VVD. It would be a good thing for the PVV to think constructively with all the parties who come up with ideas. They all have different ideas about how to deal with taxes and problems. It would be Mr Van Dijck, it would be the PVV to come up with real solutions. I can't hear them. All I hear is: no, no, no; more this and less that. There is no coherence whatsoever. I want to hear solutions. Then there's something we can talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u104	Then you should invite the PVV to the formation meetings. How about that? Then we come up with solutions. We have a lot of solutions, for example: close those borders. You let 30,000 asylum seekers in and they all give you a house. Of course, Henk and Ingrid will have to wait in that crowded neighborhood for that home for their children. Those kids from Henk and Ingrid live with Mom and Dad until they're 50. There is no house for them, because all those asylum seekers of yours have priority. Those are all solutions. Stop giving 11 billion to Italy, a country that is three times as rich as the Netherlands. Stop throwing money away on all those subsidies. There are billions on the streets, but you don't want to hear that solution. You have only one purpose. You want to be the benefactor for Africa, for Europe, for Italy. You want to fill the Netherlands with windmills. But that neighborhood, where you come from... You're betraying your own people now. You say, "I'm from welfare." Very good, but think about the people in welfare. They're in the cold now. They can't pay their bill. You are talking about views, about how you can play the benefactor with our tax dollars in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u105	I'm not going to be called a traitor here in this house. I really think that's going too far. But let me return to the substance of the matter. The European Union and all its predecessors, I began my speech by saying that we have put an end to war. They've brought us prosperity and a higher income. That was true for everyone, and that is true for everyone to this day. If it weren't for Europe, we'd all be poorer. We would have had fewer jobs. Then we would have been even worse and we would have played an even less important role in the world. I want to improve the European Union and its democratisation very much. I think there can be a lot better. It is wise policy, for job retention and welfare preservation in the Netherlands and for economic growth, to ensure recovery. Not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe and not only out of solidarity, but also out of Dutch self-interest. The PVV denies that, but then the PVV simply doesn't understand how the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you, Mr. Hammelburg. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The General Financial Reviews: I'm excited again. I wanted to start with two very important teachers in the economy for me. That's Jan Tinbergen, the first Nobel Prize winner in the economy. It always encourages us economists to look out the window and look at what is happening in the world, and to base our economic decisions on that. The second is Jan Pen, a Groningen professor who became world famous in 1971 with a piece about the Penparade, the income parade of Pen. Here's the deal. He lined up all the people in England according to income and height. The higher your income, the bigger your height. He was a bit of average height, and that parade lasted an hour. He came to see him, and the first thing he saw was nothing. The first few minutes he saw nothing at all, because those people were underground, had a negative income. Those were the entrepreneurs who had suffered losses. After about ten minutes he saw the people who had a full-time job and still were very small. They had a very low income to make ends meet. That went on, and after half an hour he expected to see people as big as he was at the average income. But nothing was less true, because they came about to his waist. A lot of people, up to half of them, had only a very small income. It was only after 45 minutes that people came around at eye level. And, of course, the incomes got higher after that. At the end you could almost look back, especially in the last few seconds, those people were that long. That reflected the uneven distribution of income in the world. That parade was called "the parade of dwarfs and giants." Mr. Chairman. My central point today is that that parade of dwarfs has gotten much longer, and the giants have gotten even bigger. My second central point today is that this applies not only to income and wealth, but to broader issues in society. Politics has to do something about that. Mr. Chairman. It is conscious policy of the wealthy that they no longer want to pay taxes. It is consciously policy of large companies, the new large multinationals, that they are in tax-free ports, that they use tax avoidance structures, that they park their assets abroad. That CEOs now earn much more than the employees, much more than 20 or 30 years ago. Those proportions are out of control. On the other hand, people who work are getting less and less left. We see that again in next year's budget. The economy is growing by 3% and people are on the zero line. If you do that year by year, the distribution becomes crooked. That is the case in the world, and that is the case in the Netherlands, but that also applies to broader themes. The same applies to public health. People with lower incomes die on average seven years earlier, even in a prosperous country like the Netherlands, and live twelve years in less good health. That is a huge problem! Education deficits are increasing in our prosperous country. The chances of making more of your life, of taking advantage of all the opportunities that society gives us, are getting smaller. Performance's getting worse. That is a huge problem, and that also applies to safety. Who else is threatened, given a greater chance of being robbed or beaten? Where do the bullets fly around the head? Fortunately, this happens a little less in the Netherlands, but that is all wrongly divided. It applies to all themes in society. It's a habitation call, for example. Homelessness has doubled, the lowest incomes pay an increasing proportion of their income in rent, because they do not have a merchant house. They pay 30% to 40% of their income in rent. That is growing apart in my opinion, and I think that politics should do something about it. That is what I am assessing the budget on. And also on the cabinet policy of the past few years. This morning I got another one of those notes from a minister who was going to do something about it again. We are now talking about a triple missionary cabinet and I was wondering if this cabinet has ever been missionary in recent years with all these problems that the PvdA sees as major problems of our time. Because these problems, housing shortages, educational disadvantages, climate problems, have all gotten bigger rather than smaller. Mr. Chairman. I will be on the next year's budget. I shall begin with the General Political Reviews, where a motion converted the budget by 2 billion. The week before, 700 million in healthcare salaries were added as a result of the adoption of a motion by the SP and the Christian Union on healthcare salaries and a higher rate for corporate tax. I do not want to be scornful about that, because they are serious amounts and serious changes to the budget. At the same time, the question is which of these major problems, which I have just outlined, is really being solved. The coalition parties that adopted this motion, half a billion dollars for security, half a billion dollars for purchasing power and energy bills, half a billion dollars for educational salaries and half a billion dollars for living, of course, all say that it is just a step and not enough. But I'm a little concerned that this transaction policy is being pursued. Everyone gets something, but there's no serious problem of people being solved. That's a big problem. I would like to make an appeal, even today, to start with people's problems. The housing shortage is immense. We have submitted with GroenLinks the Ploumen/Klaver motion to really do something about the housing shortage. We asked for a house milking fine to be introduced, because the law will soon be broken and every party should be against it. However, there is no fine yet. We asked for the landlord's tax to be abolished. Of course, under conditions, because it's not just giving. One needs to build more, make more sustainable and moderate rent. If you just give the money, you don't get it in return. Of course, there must be conditions. The Housing Fund. Last year we forced that for the budget with GroenLinks for a year. After all, there would be another cabinet that could invest in viability. That's the logical thing to do, isn't it? With regard to the landlord's tax, I also ask the cabinet what goes away from the 500 million, as the WZ values and house prices continue to rise. That doesn't really make sense. I'm really asking the Cabinet to do more about that. I was also shocked by the letter we received yesterday from the Home Secretary about ten times 100 million. It's just 100 million; small amounts are always made in favor of the cabinet and vice versa, that's how it works here in The Hague, but it's just ten times 100 million. That letter said the minister has no idea what she wants to do with it. That's impossible, isn't it? For the Home Affairs budget, the plan is not even finished. That's a big problem. Mr. Chairman. A second problem is that a great deal of money is being spent on certain themes. You might not expect it from a Social Democrat, but I do not think the problem is too little. I think it might be too much money to spend on climate, an education-emergency programme and the Wopke-Wiebes fund, for example. Added together, it is many tens of billions and it threatens to be partly wasted money. In an interrupting debate, Mr Heinen said that he loves tutoring and that these people are also doing a very good job, but I am afraid that the education money will end up very much with commercial consultancy firms and lap tools. 8.5 billion in two and a half years you just don't get put away. The shortage of teachers is immense. I would have preferred the cabinet to have said that we are making structural funding of EUR 2 billion for education for better teacher salaries, to solve the shortage of teachers and to tackle inequality of opportunity; we have a credible plan for this. I would have preferred that rather than throwing 8.5 billion over the fence and expecting all kinds of plans about how schools are going to spend that money. I'm very concerned about that. Climate. Also a huge amount, 6.7 billion, that is spent on everything and everything, like electric cars. I really wonder if that wasn't a coalition solution to political problems. It's a big problem, so we have to spend a lot of money instead of the question of what measures are really needed. Then you will not get out of taxing the largest polluters with the CO tax, which is not yet being done enough. And then you won't get out of it to reduce the number of animals in the Netherlands. We just have way too many animals on a much too small surface. That choice is not made and then it costs a lot of money. The Wopke-Wiebes fund is not being spent. It's been announced big, but you can see that there's almost no project coming to maturity. These are huge amounts that are being reserved, but which I have concerns about effectiveness. I would have preferred the major problems of this time to be dealt with rather than large amounts proposed. Mr. Chairman. I will come to another point. Those are the budgetary rules. The PvdA Group is in favour of additional investment in society, especially structural investment. You know that. These include education, housing and housing, which is one of the biggest problems of our time: climate, security, purchasing power and energy poverty. The latter is in danger of becoming an immense problem. We always cover our proposals. You can agree or disagree. The VVD disagrees that we engage larger companies more. We just had a debate on that. That's a political choice. They're supposed to be made here, too. Budgetary rules have become a bit of a mess. I've been saying that for years. Now the Council of State has sent us a letter saying: we are not even looking at it anymore; we are not even starting to review the expenditure frameworks, because there are no agreements at all. That is quite a problem, because it affects the credibility of the Minister of Finance in his assessment of Parliament's amendments. Every time the opposition makes proposals that are covered and that are tidy, it is said that the cover is not good or that it is not possible, although it is true. If the cabinet goes ahead, it's different. I've been there a few times. The Council of State is now saying: we are not even going to look at that anymore. That's what they really say! With the corona support, I totally get that. That's not the point. This is also about the motion of two weeks ago which includes income effects. When we arrive at that, the Minister says, "You're crazy, you're not crazy, you're not crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're crazy, you're Is this a new policy? Can the opposition and the coalition do the same now? Or is the Minister holding on to the fact that he's the guardian of budget law while he's fucking around on his own? Because that is what has happened in recent years. By the way, that also happened the other way. In the Minister's first years, I was very critical of the fact that he did not spend within the expenditure framework, mainly on education. That's when cuts in education were planned. That money could just be wagered, but he didn't. That's what I was criticizing at the time. It's happening the other way. That's a real problem. Mr. Chairman. What kind of country do we want to live in? In the end, of course, that is what politics is about. The PvdA also has a view on this and a view on it. The PvdA believes in a country in which everyone is made possible to take everything out of themselves, in which if you are unlucky you get a little support in the back and in which we look at each other and the people who are having a hard time. If the word "together" disappears from society, society is lost. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u108	On the previous point, Mr President. You've been busy. This is about the role of the House of Representatives in the budget as analysed by the Council of State. I've been looking at that for the past few years. It's interesting that we're starting to think about all the budgets from this week on. On balance, according to analyses, we spend on average 0.3% or 0.25% different than the cabinet proposes. This means that 99.7% of the spending plans are already in place. It's often drawing at the cross. The Council of State says it has to be different. You should probably take the House of Representatives with you sooner. How does the colleague of the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u109	PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u110	PvdA, watch out. I have just completed against the VVD, but Mr Azarkan knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u111	Sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u112	I think that is a fair question. Let's face it, even the most right-wing party doesn't want to abolish the AOW. That is, of course, a huge budget in the Social Affairs budget. There is no one who wants to abolish the entire WW. As far as the percentage comparison is concerned, which means that we are only a few tenths apart: the largest expenditure items, say 90%, each party wants. That does not alter the influence of the Chamber, but my point is, frankly, that the cabinet can afford anything in budgetary policy. We also always agreed that you shouldn't cover an expense with tax increases. I wasn't in favour of that, but that appointment had been made by the cabinet with itself. I think that is a political choice. It's okay. It has always been said to the Chamber: you cannot do that, but the Cabinet does so on and on. I think that this unequal measure is more the problem than when we get that information. Because even if you get it in the spring, I have no objection to it at all if we get it earlier, you will see that decisions have to be taken in the summer too, if only because you do not know what economic expectations and purchasing power expectations are. You can now see energy prices rising. That has to be fixed, as far as I'm concerned. You don't have that information yet, so you're gonna keep pushing it in the fall. I therefore have no objection to previous information from the Cabinet and previous decision-making, as suggested by the Council of State, but I think that the key problem lies more in the unequal treatment of the Chamber as co-legislator by the Cabinet than in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u113	That is a valid point. I think it is important that we do not have enough time to look at the budget as a whole, but also at what projects are or are not in it. Maybe people in the Ministry already know that a project is not going to happen. In the meantime, between April and summer, a new project has been devised, with new editions. I think it is problematic that we, as a Chamber, are not able to think enough about this and that we are unable to understand it. I have sometimes made the proposal to look, just as we have an Bureau of Legislation, at some sort of agency of finance. With such an agency, we will not only receive support, but also information, which will enable us to analyse and come up with better proposals. As I understand it, the next cabinet says that we would like to do that. How does the PvdA colleague view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u114	Well, I don't think that if the Chamber wants to strengthen itself, the Cabinet has anything to do with it. So I don't give a shit what the Cabinet thinks. But otherwise, I like that thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u115	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u117	Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk. I'd like to suspend for lunch around 1:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I have been allowed to play the honourable role of MP for six months now. When I tell my friends that I do finance, I often hear: well, that's boring. And especially: that's not sexy. Pretty crazy actually, because taxes and finances have a big role to play in people's daily lives. It is often the reason that something can be done, the reason that something cannot be done, or the reason that something unfortunately goes wrong. I am thinking here of the premium affair, with the terrible consequences for our citizens. What I really want to say is that sometimes I am genuinely concerned about the sometimes limited attention of the Chamber on finance, budgetary rules and taxes, especially since we, as a Chamber, quite rightly attach great importance to our budget law and because we face major challenges in the Netherlands. During the General Political Reviews, it was already said: the cabinet is missionary and that makes great choices debatable. However, there are issues that cannot wait for years and for which there is no time to lose. Think of security, housing and climate, for example. There was also talk during the debate about purchasing power plates, which we should not be blindly staring at. But let us not be blind to the inequality in purchasing power either. Buying power is for people the difference between lying awake every night about how to pay bills, or sleeping well. Buying power is sometimes even the difference between being evicted or moving to a bigger house. Buying power and the big differences in it are a sign on the wall that something is going on. People feel this. It is a sign of inequality in society and it calls for solidarity. This seems to become more relevant given inflation and the fact that there are components of supply shortages, leading to higher prices. We have had a few discussions here today about the sharp rise in energy prices. This weighs directly on the purchasing power of our citizens. My question is: how does the Minister see this and how does he intend to keep his finger on the wrist from the cabinet and to correct excesses in good time? The corona crisis has also laid a magnifying glass on the challenges of our time. Many people have it right and we live in a society with many individual freedoms. But we increasingly see the shadow side of individualisation and the loss of community spirit. This development and reality must be taken into account in the choices we are going to make, including in addressing the seven major challenges that the Cabinet rightly describes. We also know that basically addressing these major challenges, including housing, climate and labour market, will cost money. That can also mean letting go of ancient worldviews and the overthrow of sacred houses. But we expect much more damage to be done if we do not make these choices in the coming years. The VVD talked about not getting cheap. I would like to put it as: beware of the wrong economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u119	With great pleasure I also listen to the rest, because they are all very nice words that I hear from the CDA. But I would like to go back to the social inequality that Mrs Van Dijk is talking about. Mrs Van Dijk has described the problem very well. You can see huge differences within the purchasing power plates. You can see that social inequality is increasing in the Netherlands. What is the CDA thinking of in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u120	In the coming period, we will consider a number of very major challenges. When you look at a problem, it's always about which glasses you look at the problem with. I think it is very important that we look through the glasses with which we see that there is a difference in purchasing power. That is what we must bear in mind when we come up with solutions. We must strive with each other not to increase these differences, but to reduce them and to make them fairer. So that's how I look at thinking in solutions. You can come up with five concrete solutions here, but I think it's also about how you stand in life when you look at troubleshooting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u121	I am thinking, for example, of two things: I can mention more which are very important to tackle social inequality. As an example, I would like to mention the way in which we refer to our tax system or the surcharge system, whatever you refer to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u122	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u123	I hear this is coming. Then I'll stick to this for a while. Then I'll spare my interruption... No, I'm not gonna buy it anymore, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u124	Let me give you a few examples. First of all, the right to live, i.e. housing. The articles and research on this matter are flying to our ears. The CPB notes that the housing market poses risks to financial stability in the Netherlands. We have to deal with them. This budget takes steps in this direction again, but a real transformation means more than just building according to needs and adjustments in the rental market. It also means having the courage to make decisions about sacred houses, such as the jubelton, the far too complicated home arrangement and a rethink of the loan-to-value. Those are big steps, which we need to do good and comprehensive research on, and then we need to cut the buttons. My question is which investigations have already been carried out internally to achieve the best mix of solutions and whether these investigations can be provided to us, as a Chamber. Let me give you another example. In recent years, municipalities have been given many tasks, including in the field of youth care. In consultation with municipalities, choices should be made about what youth care is and how we are going to better address this issue together. In addition, the question is whether municipalities are currently getting enough money to carry out tasks in the broadest sense. It is a big step, but many facilities and social initiatives have now been cut off to get municipal budgets but somewhat tight. These initiatives are the priceless basis of our society. The damage in our local society is slowly becoming priceless. In addition to this discussion, it is important that we simply comply with our existing system agreements towards municipalities and provinces. There is much talk of equality of government partners, but it is simply a fact that the power of public funds lies largely with the Empire. There are two important articles on which I am referring and which are also cited by the Public Administration Council. Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act states that the State must indicate how local authorities should cover financial consequences arising from government policy intentions. Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Law states that, in the case of joint management tasks, the State must reimburse the costs borne by the municipalities to the municipalities. These articles are not sufficiently complied with. Nor is this compliance assessed. As a result, we in the Chamber are unable to monitor it properly. The position of the Minister of the Interior as a system manager is not sufficiently equipped for this, writes the ROB. I am therefore curious to see how the cabinet views this. The third example is the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u125	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u126	I have a very specific question. I agree with Mrs Van Dijk's analysis, but I understand that the municipalities are now furious with the cabinet, because the step-on-step afsystematiek, which is simply part of the administrative arrangements between the Empire and the municipalities, is not being complied with. There will be an additional 2 billion on the basis, among other things, of the work of the coalition, the Hermans motion, but the cabinet says: we are not going to translate that into stairs. That's administratively inappropriate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u127	I did get those calls about angry congregations, too. I've also talked a lot about it with several aldermen and mayors. I get that anger. I also understand where it comes from, because this is the umpteenth time they feel: are we being treated fairly now? So maybe it's not even so much that this is happening now and that we've all said yes to it, because that's just a fact. But it's just an accumulation of feeling again "do we really matter?" In the coming weeks, I believe that the budgets will be dealt with in all the municipalities. There are some that are really deep in the squeaky bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u128	Will we then together ask the cabinet to maintain the usual stair-on-strap system with the 2 billion from the Hermans motion here and that the cabinet can resolve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u129	It would actually have been purer if we had not all voted in favour of this motion two weeks ago, but we did. I am in favour of the fundamental discussion on how to deal with municipal finances. I am glad that in this budget at least there is already a piece of freezing of the Municipal Fund on a piece of youth care. But I think we should look fundamentally at how we deal with municipal finances. It has been a long discussion, and you know it. So far, not so much has been done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u130	Finally. I took the motion with me for a while. I do not see any conditions for the additional 2 billion expenditure, that the municipalities will be compensated. The Chamber didn't ask that. This is an execution of the cabinet of a motion of the Chamber. Then it is also the Chamber that could ask the cabinet: please bear in mind that we keep the administrative agreements with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u131	Then I'm not right. I really thought it was in that motion and that was why that discussion arose. I think it would be a good idea to ask the Minister for a reflection right away before we make any further choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u132	I see possibilities, and I need you to forge the iron right away when it's hot. Mrs Van Dijk, of course, also knows that municipalities are all over the place financially. The libraries are closing, swimming pools are threatening to close, just like village houses. I'm sure that's what the CDA cares about. If you have agreements, this also applies to provinces and provinces, you must also keep them and ensure that if we spend more, municipalities also have that opportunity, because they already have it so hard. Mrs Van Dijk is it with GroenLinks, who just asked, and with the PvdA on that principle? She'd like to put that in the cabinet, wouldn't she? The budgetary rules are now in the garbage, so I would say this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u133	I believe that my plea is to re-implement the existing budgetary rules, which in my view have not been complied with for years, which have led to a financial delay for municipalities, and simply to comply with them. If we don't do that and we get over it again, maybe we'll go to municipalities after negotiations with a lot of money, but then we'll go on with the old song and I'll see that we'll have the same discussion here in ten years' time. I want to make that point. I also tabled a motion in the summer: no tasks without money. I would like to put that principle away once again, but it is backed up by articles in the law that we just have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u134	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u135	Let's see. The tax system, the third example. The Tax Administration has an essential function in our society. They not only collect the money that keeps the Netherlands running, but they are also responsible for paying fees that enable people to make ends meet every month. We now know that our tax regulations are in many cases too complex for citizens and businesses and difficult to implement by the Tax Administration. ICT requires serious attention and citizens and businesses experience insufficient practical legal protection vis-à-vis the Tax Administration. If we don't take steps in this now, the risks will only increase. The same applies to potentially irreparable damage. So in addition to spending money on relevant themes, we need to focus more heavily on cost control on topics such as care. We see the financial sustainability as a fast train coming towards us, so we will have to bet on printing costs. This is not a "one rule is one rule off" programme, but it is fundamental and it is a major effort to work together, prevent and reduce major administrative burdens in healthcare, among other things. Mr. Chairman. Then our controlling task as a chamber, because we have to keep an eye on how we spend that money in addition to spending money. It is precisely this that has everything to do with the House's budget right. In order to do this properly, we need to go back to discipline, expenditure frameworks and budget anchors and ceilings, because this is the way to be able to control what happens to the money as a Chamber. The Council of State makes a few interesting observations on this. As a chamber, we do not make sufficient use of our budget right. The Council of State also makes suggestions on how to increase this. Firstly, the Council of State proposes to amend the Sustainable Public Finances Act so that the Chamber is better informed about what is known as premium-funded expenditure on social affairs and care. This expenditure is by far the largest proportion of the two times 100 billion in these two areas. It is not about wanting to interfere in the implementation of the premiums, but it is strange that the Chamber is only informed about these expenditures. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he considers this to be unjustified and would like to receive his commitment to prepare for the inclusion of information law in the Sustainable Public Finance Act in these areas in line with the advice of the Council of State. Secondly, the Council of State proposes strengthening budget law towards the future by adjusting the budgetary and reporting system. This is a huge project, which we also discussed in a preparatory meeting, where we are talking about modernising budget law by including, among other things, the wide-ranging welfare indicators. We, too, would like to see wider coverage of broad welfare indicators and continuous involvement in our discussions. But this also includes tackling the budgetary cycle. The idea is to decide on the expenditure and revenue side in the spring and to submit the Millions note directly. In this way, budgets can be drawn up earlier, we are in line with the European fiscal cycle, local authorities are more aware of their needs and we are creating more time for the introduction of tax arrangements. This requires commitment from the Chamber and the Cabinet, but can mean a lot of improvement. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this proposal. Finally, European finances, because not only Dutch finances are important for how we do it as a country. The euro area has emerged well from the crisis and markets have confidence in the euro. At the same time, the high public debt of some Member States is also a risk to our financial stability. We are on the eve of a review of the Stability and Growth Pact, which sets out the budgetary rules for the EU. I think that we, as a Chamber, should really form a picture of how we see such a review and what the Dutch position in it should be. I have already announced in an earlier debate on Ecofin that I will probably table a motion tomorrow asking the Bureau to ask the Council of State for an inquiry into the reform of the SGP and to make recommendations to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u136	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Alkaya of the SP and then from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u137	The CDA is one of those parties that promised the Netherlands in election time that the landlord tax would go off so that the rents could be reduced and corporations could build more affordable and good social housing. Is the CDA going to keep that promise? Can we arrange that today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u138	Indeed, we are one of the parties that cares that something is being done about the landlord levy. That is why we are pleased that we are going to take that first big step. You also know that negotiations are coming. I think you have also heard my story that I think it is very important that we should take the right decisions in full in order to get the housing market moving. It is very likely that one of our points will be that we want to look at this even further, but I am not going to make a commitment here that we will wipe everything off the table today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u139	I understand that commitment, but I'm asking the CDA this. Mrs Van Dijk has also read that the higher tax imposed by the increase in the value of houses is already disappearing a few hundred million of that half billion. That's never supposed to happen. So I ask Mrs Van Dijk if she is prepared to look into that. Is it also prepared to go through the People's House Fund of 0.5 billion? All these municipalities have plans. They invest in the quality of life, also in rural areas. And is she willing, for example, to introduce a house milking ticket? There really has to be something more about living than what's in there right now. Is Mrs Van Dijk prepared to do business about it today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u140	I'm willing to look at anything. I think I have also made an appeal to look at problems in their entirety, because I do not like to turn one button, which then causes another problem on the other hand and does not solve the problem at all. I can only now, here, at the moment, not judge whether the proposals you are making now really contribute to this comprehensively sound solution. I'm sure a lot of solutions have been devised here in this house. I would like to see them, so that we can quickly assess them with each other and we can make a choice about them in the short term, because I really do feel that it should not take years and that it is in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u141	Mr. Nijboer, this would be your last interruption right now. I shall now give the floor to Mr Azarkan. Then Mr Van Raan, then Mr Tony van Dijck and then Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u142	It is good that Mr Van Dijk is going to ask for an investigation into the modernisation of the Stability and Growth Pact, as I see it. Of course, there has been a lot of talk about this. But the problem isn't the 3% or the 60%, which has to be different or that can be variable. No, the problem is that countries don't stick to it. We spoke the late Wim Kok. He said, "The biggest mistake we made is that we never talk to each other about it." I do not know whether Mrs Van Dijk has looked at the percentages of a number of countries, such as Greece, Spain and Italy, but you are not dealing with the problem at all. I say, through you, Mr President, that Mrs Van Dijk is doing some sort of theoretical exercise. The practice is that we don't send it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u143	I think a theoretical exercise or every exercise starts with knowing what you want. I think it is important that if we, as the Netherlands, know very well what we want, we should not just be guided by what Germany or France want. So it starts with knowing what we want. If we then wonder how we stick to each other's rules and if we want it to be more firmly decorated, that's what we want and what we're going to bring in. But it does start with the fact that we know what we want ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u144	That wasn't my question at all. It is very good that people know what they want, but I think Mrs Van Dijk says that we are going to see how this Stability and Growth Pact can be changed and how it allows countries more flexibility. Not every country is the same. The problem is that that's not the problem. It is nice that Mrs Van Dijk wants something and that we want something, but nothing is ever done about it. Countries simply cannot comply with the rules without any sanction. Shouldn't we discuss that with each other first? Whether we should conclude that it doesn't make much sense and that we have views on matters, where heads of government say in practice in a European context: well, we actually find it a bit annoying for France and Germany and we're about to get to it; you know, we're going to let it go. That's the problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u145	I'm not a big fan of giving up. If we see that a struggle is difficult and if we think it is important, then I think we should fight it harder. If you say 'well, Mrs Van Dijk, that's the problem', then I think that we should put it on the agenda and keep it on the agenda as one of the places and points, and we should also constantly instruct our Minister to do so. That's how I look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u146	But does that mean that Mrs Van Dijk is now saying that she is in favour, for example, of imposing sanctions in some form on countries that have been violating the SGP rules for years? Is that what Mrs. Van Dijk says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u147	I said: let us sit together together, partly on the basis of a suggestion from the Council of State, and think carefully about what we want to do, perhaps that sanctions, perhaps those are other things that come with a common approach and that we should use them. That's what I'm saying. We haven't even started that conversation yet, and you're already asking me to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u148	I think it is very nice to see how Mrs Van Dijk embraces this broad concept of prosperity. I also think it is very nice to see how Mrs Van Dijk said, in this broad sense of prosperity, in the here and now, for example, in relation to the surcharge disaster: 'whatever it takes'. That is a wonderful statement that we can achieve very much together. My question is about the 'later' concept of broad prosperity, because there are a number of meters in the red, for example on biodiversity and cumulative CO emissions. Do we also find Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA on our side to solve these problems in the present? For example, you look at agriculture and livestock: whatever it takes to solve those problems for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u149	The Monitor Brede Prosperity has many indicators. For example, overweight and the debt position of families are also in the red for the future. I think we should look at the Wider Prosperity Monitor and we should name the scarlet indicators. Maybe we should make a choice in what we're gonna do first. I think we should do that exercise together, mostly, with each other. It may be that for you biodiversity is on one side and perhaps for me the debt problem of our households is on one side. Let us have that debate, but on the basis of these broad welfare indicators, because they are very valuable for the fundamental debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u150	I think Mrs Van Dijk has a very good point there. It's just what she says: there are a lot of indicators in this Monitor Brede Prosperity, in the broad concept of prosperity, just like there are a lot of meters in a car. But there is one indicator that applies to later, namely cumulative CO emissions. That actually determines whether we're keeping the planet viable. That indicator's deep in red. So maybe that's the indicator we have to tackle first, because otherwise you can't do anything about stewardship. Is the CDA prepared to draw the consequences of this in the present, for example, from what science tells us about what to do with our emissions, our livestock and that sort of thing? We will find each other on other files, but that indicator, which puts the viability of the planet at risk, is actually the indicator that it should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u151	We also think it is an important indicator. And yes, we certainly want to hang out and think about it. Only, we may have other ideas about the solutions. Let us also have the open debate on this, because you are already talking about halving livestock and so on. I believe that there are a lot of opportunities for solving problems, and we want to take a broad view of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u152	By the way, I am glad that Mrs Van Dijk, as the only coalition partner so far, has drawn attention to purchasing power. That's profit. I hope that in the formation discussions they put that very hard on the table, because so far VVD and D66 apparently did not think that was so important. One of the indicators is poverty. 550,000 families - that is what the CDA must be heartbroken about - living in energy poverty. As we could see in the news yesterday and today, the gas price has increased by about a year. So families just get out in the cold. Everyone hopes and prays for a not too cold winter, otherwise we will have a problem in the Netherlands with these gas prices. What does the CDA have in store for those families who are now being put in the cold?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u153	I have already mentioned in my contribution that we are seeing this development and are very shocked by it. I also asked the Minister how the cabinet could react to this. Now it is this, but it may well be that we have the same kind of discussion on another subject in six months' time. Also here is the case for me: let's just have a conversation about what we're going to do when everything's on red and the alarm bells go off. Is the Empire the first to come forward or are we going to think about other solutions? I think that we should make the arrangements about this much better with each other, because now and then it is very bad about "beep, we have to run'. No, we have to look forward in the sense of: what do we see happening and how do we react to it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u154	That is very good for that spot on the horizon and for the future, but now it is an urgent problem. Now we have to act. We cannot say: let's sit around the table, in six months we may have another problem and then we have a format to solve it. No, now, as we speak, people are in the cold. And it's not that hot anymore, and it's only going faster and faster now, and that energy bill is only getting higher, higher, higher. So we have to act now. Is Mrs Van Dijk prepared to take some money from this ridiculous 7 billion for climate expenditure, thereby occasionally alleviating the suffering of those people, so that they can pay the bill and not be in the cold this winter? That could be a solution. Other countries do it the same way. In fact, other countries do so and we pay it. That's how crazy we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u155	It seems to me an interesting question to put to our Minister for reflection, whether he sees this as a good option as a first step towards using these climate funds. By the way, of course, this does not solve the climate problem; it solves another problem, namely a purchasing power problem. Well, that's another discussion, and then we're gonna shove it with jars.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u156	The disadvantage of doing Financial Reviews with so little time and with so many parties is that you also have very little speaking time. Mrs Van Dijk has said a lot of things about substance at such a rapid rate that I really need to consider a number of points. I have also heard a lot of fantastic things that make me as a D66'er very happy. However, there was one aspect that I still have some doubts about or that I might not fully understand and that was about dealing with the housing crisis. I think I heard Mrs Van Dijk say that we do not yet have a complete overview of the measures and solutions we can use to deal with this housing crisis. My observation is that in the CDA's election programme, in the D66 election programme, but also in the election programmes of other parties in this Chamber, there are a lot of solutions, that a lot has already been written about it and that the cabinet has also very often expressed its views on it. Can Mrs Van Dijk indicate whether it is really necessary to look further and further explore how we can tackle this crisis? Or does Mrs Van Dijk agree with me that we need to tackle this crisis now and that we need to take action now, albeit in a comprehensive way, but now, in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u157	Let's see if I misread my text. Indeed, I have literally asked the question of what research is already under way here, because I am convinced that a great deal has already been researched and looked at, in order to achieve that best mix of solutions. I also asked if these could be given to the Chamber. For example, I have seen integral solutions from 2012 - 108 pages, I say from my head - but I prefer them from 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u158	Thank you, Mrs Inge van Dijk. I'm just looking. Will it be all right if we give Mr Snels the floor and then have a lunch break? No, I will give the floor to Mr Snels. I think there's room for that. Yeah, I see a couple of people nodding. Mr. Van Dijck, you are through your interruptions. Oh, no, you have another one. I call Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u159	Mr President, I thought I was going to have lunch to think about what I was going to say. Mr President, thank you. Arno Visser, the President of the General Court of Auditors, reminded us of the Great Privilege, which was recorded in 1477. The States-General forced the Burgundian rulers to bear Mary of Burgundy's responsibility for taxes only after the consent of the States-General and to be held accountable for expenditure. That is the origin of our budget law: one of the most important principles in our democracy. Of course, we have more debates on this budget law, even in the last debate on accountability. Mrs van Dijk and others have already mentioned it, and I too find the opinion of the Council of State extremely interesting on this point. It solves a number of things. If we are going to ensure that the budgets and the Tax Plan get one decision-making moment in the Cabinet in the spring and that they are also published by the Cabinet, then the Chamber will have much more room in budget law to think about the implementation of other proposals in the budget. Then we also have more time to deal with the Tax Plan and we can do more justice to the budget law of the Chamber. I wonder if the Minister for Finance Mr. Chairman. That was the first major debate on budgets. The second major debate concerns the integration of broad prosperity into the policy cycle. A number of speakers have already spoken about this. We have often discussed this, including with the Minister of Finance, and I must say that, like Mr Hammelburg, I am a little disappointed in how far we have come over the last four years. Here comes a number of things together: integrating the Monitor Brede Prosperity into the policy process, Article 3.1 of the Compatability Act and full accountability, also on Accountability Day. In fact, we should just take an example of large companies here. We are often critical of large companies, but there are many large companies that are miles ahead. They're doing all that already. They integrate their broad prosperity into goals, strategy and accountability, leading to better decisions and better decision-making. I actually think that we should think about how we should push forward this process, which has been accompanied by motions, pushing and pulling over the last few years, which is also quite complex. I am curious to hear the government's reaction to the Council of State's proposal to make this a second operation combatable. So let's do it together: Chamber, Cabinet, Court of Auditors. How are we going to set up this budget? How do we do it with broad prosperity? How, for example, do we do that with premiums? How do we do that with the reporting system? Can we also make a final decision on the benefit-burden system? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The third major debate on the budget concerns the budgetary rules. We have already discussed this a lot, also with the VVD. That has two levels. First of all, I would like to mention the European budgetary rules. That's kind of complicated. Who can see a macroeconomic challenge here in an ageing Europe with low interest rates? This means that we are going to consider in a different way what the sustainability of public finances is in the longer term. So governments have more room here in relation to the surplus of savings and also a duty to invest more and spend more. At the same time, of course, we also see that this is difficult in the European debate. One of the proposals I find interesting is the green funding rule. Can we not create a separate framework for this, also because we, as Europe, want to achieve the climate goals together? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. These three debates on budget law, the integration of the Monitor Brede Prosperity, the Operation Comptable Order plus the budget rules are ultimately the backbone for all the major transitions we stand for in the coming years. That is also why I reacted a little harshly to Mr Heinen in his first term. It's not just about handing out a lot of extra money, even if it's occasional. That must be done, but we will have to do so together with thinking about how markets function and how price formation is achieved there. This is particularly important because the public authorities are constantly disrupting the market there with the mortgage interest rate deduction, with jubilee notes, with all kinds of tax measures, which, according to the Court of Auditors, is now worth 100 billion. We really need to take a critical look at that, because then you really get the big transitions done. I mean transitions in agriculture, climate, housing and ultimately also in the tax system itself. This is also a question for the Secretary of State for Supplements: what will be the future of the supplement scheme? Will it also succeed in abolishing this in a cabinet period, and what will citizens ultimately find out about it? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, these were the major challenges through the major budgetary debates we are having with the rulers of finance. I have a number of concrete proposals and questions about the budget itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u160	Let me see if Mr Van Raan wants to ask all his last questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u161	What an honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u162	Yes, it's my last question indeed. Then Mr Snel will be able to finish his fine speech, or at least without interruption by me. I got very excited about the idea of including the concept of "wide prosperity" in that Compliance Act. I think I heard him say that. I see him nodding. I am so excited that I tabled a motion on this last year. GroenLinks voted against it. So perhaps I can tempt Mr Snels to retable that motion together. At least we know that GroenLinks is on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u163	Sorry, I really don't remember that. That could be a vote error. You'll see it in the Council of State's opinion. It should eventually be incorporated into the Compatibility Act. That's part of the Operation Comptible Order. I couldn't agree more. We are, of course, still in the process of evaluating the Compatibility Act. That could run together. But I share the Party's vision for the Animals. We're gonna have to amend that Compatibility Act anyway. Doing this with the integration of the Monitor Brede Prosperity is actually a better or more detailed interpretation of Article 3.1 of Compatibility Act. That's what it's about. If we could provide a better legal framework for this, it would help future Cabinets to achieve the real integration of the Broad Prosperity Monitor into the policy process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u164	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u165	I think we're in agreement. Mr. Chairman. I call the motion for a resolution Hermans. Compliments for the work of the VVD. It's a good result. I have a number of specific questions about this. The first one is about the landlord's tax. We are now seeing the reports that the relief given is being eaten away by the rise in the World Health Organization value. That's what I'm worried about. Of course, we are going to have this debate on the housing budget and perhaps already on the Tax Plan. Can the cabinet give us a little more insight into what exactly is going on with this landlord tax, the burden development and the World Trade Organisation value? At that point, we can continue to see if this is enough. Perhaps at that time the cabinet can also say something about the future of the landlord levy. That is, of course, in conjunction with the negotiations, but who knows how fast they are going. The second question I have concerns energy bills. Mr Hijink and others had justified questions about this. It's important for purchasing power. It is also important that this is included in the Hermans motion. I'm still a little worried about the execution. One: what is it really going to mean for the energy bill and therefore for the wallet of people? I think we might be able to go a little further here. I would be very interested if, before the Tax Plan or before the EZK budget is discussed, the cabinet would also like to identify some alternatives on how we can really influence the energy bill, for example by reducing the electricity tax rate. There is real space in this without getting in the way of climate policy and without creating the wrong incentives. What I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do is this. Because of this strange increase in gas prices, which I think is mainly geopolitically motivated and which could well be relatively temporary, there is also a very sudden windfall in VAT. It is budgetaryly ugly and it should not really be, but if we could use that VAT counter, or at least examine it, to do something more about that energy bill, then I would also like to have the answer from the Secretary of State and possibly an analysis on it. The healthcare salaries, very briefly; I have little time left. I understand that the increase in these care salaries does not end up with the people with the lowest salaries. Home care workers stay at zero. I believe that the cabinet should talk to the social partners to ensure that it also reaches the people in care with the lowest salaries. There's something really crazy going on with the homeless. An occasional programme for three years, very successful. Everyone assumed that this would become structural, but there is no cabinet yet and then one year falls apart. This is irrational. Can there be a solution for that? The same for the sneaking cuts in higher education by the downfalls at DUO. Can the government give an analysis before the budget of higher education whether it is actually just a technical cut or whether it has a real impact on higher education? Because then we should do something about it. Mr President, I had already asked, together with Mrs Van Dijk, for the step-on-step approach relating to the Hermans motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u167	I suggest we suspend for lunch for about 45 minutes, until 2:35 p.m. Then we start with Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
