ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then we shall proceed to the order of the day. I understand you've already met before lunch. Then we will continue with the bill of termination of the replacement fund and modernisation of the participation fund. A warm welcome to the Minister who was already present in our new Chamber and, of course, a warm welcome to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	That is correct, Mr President, we have already had a very intense debate this morning. It was also a nice substantive debate. I think that perhaps this afternoon's debate will be a little more calm. I have to say, however, that we have had to look at labour law very carefully, because this law is even more technical than that of the debate this morning. In any case, it is a matter of different legislation. Mr. Chairman. I do have the impression that there is a bit more consensus. Under this law, we talk about funds that support primary school administration when replacement is needed, for example because of illness or when an employment contract is terminated. This is important for policy. Good reintegration paths are important, especially at a time when the shortage of teachers is so great. I want to say a few words about the shortage of teachers. This week all the schools are open again. We read a lot of messages and speak with many teachers and unfortunately we see and hear that there are again full classes, because schools simply cannot find teachers or lack of them. We also read that in large cities the teacher shortage is even greater than last year. I'd also like to ask the Minister how he looks at this. What does he say to schools that won't get the formation around this year? How is the Minister going to ensure, especially now that the formation still takes some time, that a solution is found? How does he ensure that the lack of teachers is not forgotten in the meantime, that it is not the pink elephant in the Chamber, as Merel van Vroonhoven said so beautifully before this recess? Does the Minister see the possibility of really paying sufficient attention to this in the coming period? I must honestly say that I sometimes look up to the enormous plans that some rulers show. And when we ask the Ministers of Education what can really be done structuralally for education, it is said that we are decommissioning and we cannot make major policy changes. That's what happens in other ministries. The problem of the shortage of teachers has been very serious over the past four years, and that problem does not disappear. Let us avoid talking about this for a very long time in new governments to be formed and then leave education in the cold. Mr. Chairman. Then the law. This law terminates the Replacement Fund. This fund compensates for the costs that schools have when they have to replace staff with sickness when school boards have paid contributions to the fund. As more and more school boards choose to pay the replacement costs themselves, this fund is slowly terminated. That seems to us to be a logical consequence. The schools still using the fund are supported in the phasing-out of the fund and for schools where it may cause financial problems, in order to enable the cabinet to have a temporary safety net. However, I read in the explanatory statement that this safety net will only be established if sufficient budgetary resources can be made available. I would like to ask the Minister what exactly is meant by this. Shouldn't these resources simply be made compulsory so that all schools can make the transition in a good way? Mr. Chairman. The Replacement Fund also had a second task, namely to advise and support school boards in organizing occupational health, abbreviated we do so much in education as PGZ. As I said just now, with the enormous shortage of teachers, that is extremely important. The Replacement Fund has calculated that one percentage point less absenteeism on an annual basis leads to a reducing need of over 1,000 fte of replacement. 1,000 ftp, that's a big deal. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore very important that school boards are permanently supported and advised in the area of occupational health care. The legal basis of this would disappear with the termination of the Replacement Fund. We don't think that's a good idea. That is why, together with colleagues from the SP and the PvdA, and at the request of the social partners who have knocked on our door, we have tabled an amendment which places this task in the Participation Fund. We think this is a logical place, because the Participation Fund is concerned with preventing unemployment, and this also goes hand in hand with us as far as we are concerned. Mr President, we can also support the second leg of this law, the modernisation of the Participation Fund. The Participation Fund takes the financial risks on those school boards when the employment is terminated. But, perhaps more importantly, it is also concerned with reintegration policy. We have often discussed here how important it is to re-integrate and how important it is that people who are now in that quiet reserve of education may go back, that people with educational competence should go back to that education. As far as we are concerned, much more should be devoted to this. I would like to ask the Minister how big that quiet reserve is. Are they still those over 80,000 people who do have educational competence but do not work in education? Has it been possible in recent years to bring some of these people back into education? How many people are actually standing in front of the class? And are there measures for the coming years to bring back people who do have competence but do not work in education? Because, especially with the huge challenge of the shortage of teachers, of course we need all the people. It is just a shame that we have so many people in this country who have done training to become teachers but who have fallen out for whatever reason and who no longer work in education. Let's do everything we can to ensure that all children have a teacher for the class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is not the most simple and clear legislative changes that are being discussed today. That was the case for this morning, and I'm sure it will be for this afternoon. Honestly, for a lot of people, I don't think it's the most imaginative either. I haven't been outside yet, but when the streets are extinct, I don't think it's because everyone's looking breathless at the legislative changes around the Replacement and Participation Fund. Still, it's about something. The removal of a fund that ensures that the costs of absenteeism and replacement were shared among the various school boards, including the adjustment of a fund designed to get teachers who lose a job back to work. Of course, preferably in education, but otherwise out there. The main question, but that actually applies to any legislative proposal, is of course that of necessity. What is the main problem that we are going to solve with this law? What didn't function satisfactorily within the system that we've had for a long time now? I find this a question not so easy to answer. One of the arguments put forward in the law is that school boards, when they themselves become responsible for bearing the costs of absenteeism, are becoming increasingly involved in preventing absenteeism. That is quite a cynical view of the use of school boards. Usually the roles between the Minister and me are reversed on that point when it comes to the role of administrators in education. In addition, this brings the risks of higher absenteeism to the school boards themselves. And indeed, so far, in the years as you have seen, there are schools that have already been allowed to choose, have chosen and have not returned to it. From that, you could deduce that it seems to function satisfactorily for those schools. But, Mrs Westerveld also pointed it out for a while, we are in a period of a considerable shortage of teachers. We are at a time when a lot of teachers have had a hard time with schools open and close, online education, the consequences and the aftermath of corona over the past year. Of course, we do not hope that this will lead to additional educational failure, but you cannot rule it out at all. There is a risk that people will be at the end of their Latin, so they'll call in sick or leave. This also leads to a higher risk of default. That's a problem you can't just get rid of. It'll end up on the board of schools now. Does the Minister see the risk that schools will be faced at one time with costs that a government cannot actually bear at all? How does the Minister see the risk that driving might be less likely to offer a teacher a fixed contract when they have higher expenses if they have to help a teacher, should they not like it, into a new job? An unintentional side effect could be that schools, when they have to take part in the finances for reintegration, will be more reluctant to offer a fixed contract. It is an annoyance which I think is widely shared in this Chamber that schools often do not offer fixed contracts in times of shortage of teachers. What about the risks to smaller schools or administrations? I told you, it seems to be going well so far. The small schools and boards that have decided to work on this themselves have not come back to it either. However, there is still a large number of schools that have not chosen to do so. Let me quote the Minister's wording. It was also about a transitional arrangement and a safety net, if necessary: "The potential target group for a possible temporary safety net is now being identified." That is a lot of ifs and buts in one sentence, so I agree with Mrs Westerveld's question. If it's necessary, it's just gonna have to get there. We have to stop schools from getting into trouble. I believe that this is also the intention of the cabinet, but I found it so timidly formulated here and there that I think that there should be a thicker line underneath it. I intend not to start an entire article 23 discussion today, despite my keenness to do so. I must say that, when reading, I was surprised that there was an exception on the basis of the philosophy of life in order to be able to organise this type of fund in its own circle. Now, of course, a part is going to be abolished and a part is going to be modernised, but I was wondering what the hell that deep-feeling religious belief is that justifies not being able to do something together with the public school next to you in the village for replacement. Why do you have to do that in your own circle? Why can you only do the replacement funds of the schools of a certain denomination together? I am very curious to see exactly what the argument is for this. I saw it as a way of extending the scope of Article 23 over the last 100 years. Finally. I wasn't going to, Mr. Peters, so I'm gonna try not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	Neither do I, Mr Kwint, but I would like to point out that Article 23 is not just about religious schools, but about 70% of all pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's true. Even so, beyond religious beliefs, I am still not convinced of the belief in life that forbids you to share replacement funds. But that could be because I may not be equally at home in all religions and beliefs. Then there's company health. There are now so-called BGZ services, the occupational health services. They would disappear with this bill. Then the Minister says: this can be done in agreements between employers and employees. It must be tendered in the future. We don't think that's such a good idea. This also does not seem to be a good idea for employers and workers in education. Let us be honest: they have not always agreed on all points in recent years. At this point, they did find each other. They approached us about that. We agreed with them and, as Mrs Westerveld said, we tabled an amendment on this together with PvdA and GroenLinks. There is also a reason for this. As far as we are concerned, industrial health is more than just between employers and employees. It also serves a general purpose. It's not something you leave to the boards. As a society, we simply benefit from a teacher's ability to do his job in good working conditions, as we have said, for example, about a government regulation on ventilation in schools, that we believe the government has a role to play in this. We're not gonna do you-bake in the sense that a council or a board should have done more. Then we will take on our own responsibility. That is why we have also tabled this amendment. I can highly recommend it to anyone. It has really become an above average good amendment, even if I say so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'm glad you're so content yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you for your contribution. Now we go to Mrs. Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today, it has already been mentioned a little bit about legislative changes that are rather technical. Simply put, school boards will be given greater responsibility for their personnel policy thanks to these changes. I think that's a good thing. How you deal with your people, teachers and other employees is very important for how you function as a school. If a school deals well with employees, teachers and teachers can do their job as well as possible and provide good education. In the end, that is in the interests of the student. The VVD therefore agrees that we are changing the law so that school boards are given more direction over their personnel policy, but I still have a few points to focus on. We're quitting the Replacement Fund, but when are we gonna stop doing that? How do we prevent it from becoming a prayer without end? There is a risk that some schoolbodies may be less diligent in the work of this staffing policy. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister on a regular basis about this, so that we as a Chamber can adjust where necessary. I understand that schools which themselves bear the risk of sickness replacement in 2019 had an average absenteeism that was 1.2 percentage points lower than the group of school boards that could still declare the replacement costs to the fund. That's good news. Firstly, for the employees involved and, of course, for the pupils. From these figures, I conclude that they are encouraged to take better care of their employees. That's what we want. Does the Minister share that analysis or does he look at it differently? What also struck me in the figures is that the majority of the small school boards still regularly declare the replacement costs to the Replacement Fund. I understand that they're more vulnerable and that it's more difficult. How will the Minister also guide these school boards towards taking their own responsibility, in other words their own risk carrier, which also works for them and is workable? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question following the letter from early this week from a large number of educational organisations and social partners. Colleagues Kwint and Westerveld have already pointed this out. What I share with those who sent the letter is that healthy schools are very important. We must not leave this to chance. I assume the cabinet shares that wish. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain again why the cabinet has chosen a different route. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is therefore these two objectives that are envisaged by this law: to end the Replacement Fund and to modernise the Participation Fund. This is a fairly technical law, but the aim is ultimately to modernise the statutory guarantee task of the Participation Fund. As a result, costs can no longer be declared to the Replacement Fund. Ending this fund in the long term will not cover support, non-legislative activities to keep the costs of absenteeism and replacement costs manageable for school boards. The obligation for school administrators to join the Replacement Fund will be abolished. Logically, the ministerial designation of the Replacement Fund as a legal person will also be withdrawn. As a result, schools and school boards themselves must take responsibility for managing absenteeism and replacement. Three measures have been taken to develop this further. The Replacement Fund will continue to exist until the legal termination of that guarantee task, in order to continue to support the school boards in developing sound own risk carriers. In the field of high absenteeism, the commitment will be to continue to provide support, even after the legal task ends. And if desired, a temporary safety net will be set up for a small group of school administrators. Well, the explanatory statement states that the stakes will be that this is a very small, select group and that these boards, apart from their actions, could temporarily have the financial burden of this. This could even lead to the question of the financial and substantive progress of these schools. That's plain language. But it's still unclear how big that group is. The statement states that speculation makes little sense, because neither the size of that group nor the factors associated with it are clear. But, Mr President, this bill builds on that. It is based on the existence of this need, but it is completely unclear how many schools are involved and what factors are involved. I would ask the Minister to explain the safety net. Why has this been suggested? And is there perhaps some insight into this problem? The safety net is already part of these three accompanying measures. Then there's the equity fund, Mr. Chairman. The statement states that it is becoming more and more difficult to assess whether there is unavoidable dismissal...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the basis of this proposal and we see the added value of it. The equity fund is thus retained as an independent administrative body, but a number of issues are changing within this legislative proposal. For example, the criteria for remuneration in the event of dismissal will be reduced from 131 to 8 categories. This is to simplify the complexity associated with checking the avoidability of dismissal. In future, school authorities will also be partly responsible for the costs arising from dismissal by means of a levy from the participation fund. This provides more insight into the costs for schools, because the netting will no longer run through the shortening of the lump sum cost by DUO, but because these costs will be charged by the Participating Fund. We also see the added value of this, but for us it is also a sign of the shortcomings that the lump sum cost entails. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr De Hoop. It calls for the occupational health sector to be included in the participation fund in order to continue to make use of the expertise that has been built up in the meantime. We wholeheartedly support the wishes of the proposers. At a time of a system crisis in education, the enormous, greedy shortage of teachers is a symbol of the need for occupational health in education should indeed be the responsibility of the government. We therefore tend to support that amendment. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you. Do you have an interruption, Mr Van Meenen? No. Mr Van Meenen of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u16	Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u17	It's a good thing this law is in the Chamber. This has been the plan for a long time. Both the termination of the Replacement Fund and the modernisation of the Participation Fund is a long-standing wish. We asked a few questions in the written round. These were, in particular, about the transition period and they have been fully answered to our satisfaction. So I thank the Minister and his officials and we will agree to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u18	This contribution by Mr Van Meenen is an historic moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u19	Yeah, that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. I call Mr Peters of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. If you can organize something yourself, you have to do it. Then it is unnecessary and not wise to create a higher administrative body. I'll follow that rule of thumb; that won't surprise anyone. Why organise compulsory registration for a replacement fund if schools themselves can and want to take care of it? I don't see it, schools don't see it, and the Council of State doesn't have any comments on the bill. We thank the Minister for answering our questions and for the note on the report. That answers most of the questions we had. If school boards can arrange something for themselves, then they have to do it themselves. Big school boards are sure to do that. To a large extent, they have already chosen to bear the costs of replacement themselves. That goes well, but does it actually work out well for small or less well-staffed school boards? It is a good thing that the Minister picks it up and monitors it, with that beautiful sentence full of ifs and buts that Mr Kwint just presented earlier. That's good, but maybe he can emphasize that. Mr. Chairman. There is broad support in the field of education for the abolition of compulsory inclusion in the Replacement Fund, but this is different from the proposals for the modernisation and renewal of the Participation Fund. It has been said a few times: in the past week, the AOb, AVS, FvOv, CNVO and PO-Council sent a joint letter on maintaining a legal basis for occupational health care by transferring it from the Replacement Fund to the Participation Fund. According to the Minister, occupational health care can be continued without a legal basis by collective agreement partners on the basis of collective agreements, but the aforementioned parties doubt that. They also point out that the Minister's proposal will make the expertise and instruments built up disappear. And the letter writers point out that their proposal retains the link between preventing unemployment and tackling absenteeism. We are, of course, curious to know what the Minister thinks of that letter and also of Mrs Westerveld's and Mr De Hoop's amendments, which were just accidentally referred to as Mrs Peters; a funny side effect, but good. In principle, the CDA is certainly in favour of the initiative of these parties. Finally, Mr President. There may be several reasons for unavoidable dismissal. There is much to the idea that employers and employees should talk to each other in such a case and provide a solution: guidance to another job. If I understand correctly, compensation from the fund is no longer the same in all cases. If that's the case, or am I wrong? Does this not create an unintended incentive for an employer to leave it at that possible higher remuneration, take his loss and do nothing more? How does the Minister weigh that? Is that how he sees this? In that case, how does he intend to keep an eye on it and possibly resolve it? To sum up, Mr. Chairman. What schools themselves can do, they shouldn't be obliged to solve overschool. Schools happy, everyone happy, but three concerns. One: can less well equipped schools indeed do without a Replacement Fund and how do we keep an eye on that? Two: is it not wise to transfer occupational health care to the Participation Fund? And three: doesn't differentiation in remuneration lead to unintended differentiation in employers' behaviour towards workers who have to seek other jobs? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr Peters. Finally, Mr De Hoop of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I often say it: education must be cheerful, pleasant and safe, not only for students, but also for teachers. Health should play an important role in this. The replacement and reintegration of ill educational staff must be properly regulated. The starting point was and still is to ensure the continuity of education. These funds do this by helping schools to reduce their financial risks. By carrying replacement and unemployment costs as a collective, the risks are thus spread throughout the sector, a good thing. The present bill deletes the compulsory membership of school boards with the Replacement Fund. This means that school authorities and schools themselves can take financial and policy responsibility for replacing sick workers and managing absenteeism. In addition, the legislative proposal regulates the retention of the Participation Fund as an independent administrative body with collective association and reintegration tasks for primary education, but also reformates it by laying the foundations for renewal and strengthening reintegration policies. The letter from AOb, AVS, FvOv, CNVO and PO-Council has been mentioned many times in the debate. It seems to me now that we need to ensure that the entry into force takes place quickly. The role of the Replacement Fund to support and advise school management in the organisation of occupational health aims to place the social partners with the Participation Fund, thus creating a more logical link between activities closely related to substance, namely the prevention of unemployment and the management of absenteeism. If the legislative text is not amended on this point, the continuation of regional and national knowledge and skills will only be possible if the benefit obtained from public money is paid off from around EUR 30 to 35 million. I don't think that's a good idea. Without this buy-back, there will be unlawful state aid. So I think it would be wise if the Minister embraced the amendment of SP, GroenLinks and Labour Party and we continued it in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u24	There's a question. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u25	Yes, either technically or in terms of content, because I did not quite follow the beginning of the speech, I think. You say very clearly, Mr. De Hoop, that solidarity is important to you. Of course, that is one of your core values and, by the way, mine. You say that solidarity in the Replacement Fund is a very good thing, but I do understand what you want with the Participation Fund, but not what you want with compulsory registration in the Replacement Fund. Do you want to retain this now because you think solidarity is important, even if it is not necessary and it is also possible for you to retain your own responsibility, or do you say that I agree with the legislative proposal, at least on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u26	We agree on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u27	Good, then I wouldn't have understood you correctly, but I do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u28	Then I'm glad we got that out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you to Mr De Hoop. I understand from the Minister that he can go straight to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Chamber for the contribution in the first term and for the addition of this bill, which has indeed been with you for a year. I am not saying that as a reproach, because we have given priority to other legislative proposals in the complicated corona time. It is very good, I think, that we are now also clarifying at least you from the Lower House and hopefully the Upper Chamber too, towards all those who have been working on this for a very long time and actually want to take a next step. What's going on here? You've already turned it in yourself. In the past, in the 1990s, we created these funds for primary education but also for secondary education. As you know, in the case of secondary education, all these funds have been withdrawn just over ten years ago. For primary education they have survived, but we're really getting to a place that... I would almost say that the time is now ripe to take this step, as in the case of secondary education, also for primary education. In the meantime, we have made a zbo of it, to add only one abbreviation to all the abbreviations you have already mentioned, but we are now really in a phase that is slowly but surely... The number of schools and administrations still using the Replacement Fund is declining rapidly. Indeed, this includes the possibility of own-risk carriership created from 2012. More and more boards have gone through this process. This means that they do not have to pay a premium, that they themselves try to use very targeted HRM policies to prevent the risks that this entails in a proper way and, where necessary, take responsibility for teachers involved. I can even give you the latest figures, because the note on the report is also somewhat dated. Let's look at what's the latest. Then we'll talk about this calendar year. To be precise, 67.4% of school boards have become their own risk carrier. What does that mean for the schools and the staff? Some 83% of staff and 86% of schools are now covered. If we look at the group that is not yet ready, which still makes full use of the legal possibilities to fall back on the Replacement Fund, that is a diverse number of boards, and especially the smaller ones. There's also a pitter in there. If we focus on zooming in: what happens then, who else calls on the Replacement Fund? Let me put it another way: for whom do the cost of paying contributions outweighs what they receive in terms of compensation? There is still a very small number of schools in the latter category, which therefore receives more than it pays. The latest data is that these are three schools. The complicated thing is this. That brings me to the complicated sentence quoted by Mr Kwint; I am not going to do that out of my mind. It alternates which schools are covered. I learned a new beautiful word: it's a volatile file. Volatile means it changes. They're not the same boards all the time. Of course, that also makes it complicated when you start thinking about what to do for the follow-up. I'll come back to that in a minute. Less and less schools are using them. When they appeal to it, we see that this only benefits a very limited part. The development to do the same as in secondary education is very natural and widely supported. The question is why a date is not already chosen. The choice of a date is also a responsibility for the social partners. We now also legally regulate that next step can be taken. I myself am convinced that, when this law is adopted, I will come back to the amendment, and perhaps we have also found a solution to the issue of occupational health care, there will be a date very soon. You can't even rule out the fact that people are talking about the date: this has to be done in 2022, so we have another year. Then it could officially enter into force in January 2023. Of course, we feel responsible, so does the Chamber. I can see that from all the questions about the group that may still need some support. I thought Mrs Paul specifically asked about that. The supervision of the schools remains in full force. That is already the case. Now schools, including the small schools, can already get guidance on their own risk carriers. We can also see, indeed, that I think Mr Kwint called that 'there are already small school boards that are already doing so and they are not going back'. There is still that possibility. This also means that one feels senang in the choice made. That guidance is there, even when the Replacement Fund is abolished. There are very specific regional advisors for this. They will be added to the Participation Fund and will be able to continue to guide the schools. Here's what's important. Mr Bertema pointed out this in particular. Let me say it in my own words: it is nice that the note on the report sets out the contours of such a safety net and that it says how we want to do it, but something must of course be done. When the choice is made to take the next step, a date is set and we ensure that the safety net is created. I have just indicated to you that the number of schools involved varies, but is very limited. On the date on which the Replacement Fund is abolished, it will be three or maybe four years. We are going to discuss this with the social partners and make agreements on it. As regards the costs involved, there are also implementation costs associated with the Replacement Fund. They're a small three million. That amount may become available annually for the safety net. There are also a number of millions of reserves in the Replacement Fund which can also be used for this purpose. We really have enough resources, just as we have to assess what is needed, to set up that safety net. If that is really different, we will, of course, come back to you and we will come up with a solution. That is how we intend to proceed with the Replacement Fund. We're modernising the Participation Fund. "Modernizing" is a beautiful word nowadays. That's not for nothing. We see the enormous value of the Participation Fund. I can see that under the old legislation. Mrs Westerveld specifically asked: what is being led back? We have often talked about this in the context of tackling the staff shortage. We have also said many times with each other: of course the government must do some things. I would also like to repeat that we have done a lot, but there is still a lot to be done. There is also a huge task for school boards to organise their employership in a very good and professional way. There really was a world to win. Further education has preceded us in this respect, but primary education must also be given even more attention in terms of personnel policy. This is also very much needed in the context of the staff shortages that exist. I remember that your former colleague Rog, as well as others, pointed out very strongly at the time that in recent years a lot of teachers had ended up in the WW, even though you could also ask yourself whether all this was really necessary. If there had been a good staff policy, if there had been good guidance or if there had been a return, would they be able to get a place in the schools again? A part of the government's approach to staff shortages is also to pursue very active policies in this area. I am very grateful to the Participation Fund. I would just like to mention the name of the independent chairman, Mrs Geke Faber. In recent years, great work has been done there. They have started with the target of 1,000, but the latest state of affairs is very fresh, namely on September 1st, 2,771 people have been removed from the WW. A large proportion of them have been traced back to education; another part has been traced back to other jobs. The vast majority of those who have been returned to education are back in the p.o. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's about 1,550. There are still people in the WW. Of course, we always get overviews showing how many people are entitled to a WW benefit. In the p.o. There were 2,278 in the first quarter of 2021. In relation to this, the number that the Participation Fund has recovered is really a world achievement. Of course, we're quite concerned about the staff shortage. Recently, you have again seen the reports of the CBS on staff shortages across society. By the way, education is not in the top line of the lists of all sectors, but in whatever place education is in, we know that it is a big problem when there are shortages. We want to work as much as possible to undo it and ensure that people come back. That's what we're looking forward to. That's a huge battle. We've done a lot in the past few years. This is one example. I believe we will have another debate on this in October. Then I will give you the latest state of play, including in the area of re-enterers. Over the past few years there has been a huge rise of pabo students, but this year we see a real relapse. The official figures are yet to come, but that is really something we are looking at: what is happening there? In recent years, starting in 2015, there has been a huge upward trend. By the way, all these students are now slowly but surely entering the labour market. That's very nice, but we also need them for the years to come and the years to come. So we're working on that in all kinds of ways. Mrs. Van Vroonhoven. Of course, I know the imagery of the pink elephant. It was once launched by PO in action to indicate that structural money should not be discussed. You know that during this cabinet period a great deal of occasional money went to education, but there was also more than 800 million structuralally spent on this subject. That there are still wishes for more, we also know. That's definitely up to another cabinet. Also in historical terms: no other cabinet for us can say that it has spent as much money on this as it has in this period. That's not to roar, because the problems are still great. We will therefore have to continue to work fully on this. Mrs Van Vroonhoven outlined three lines in her report. By the way, she wrote that at our request. So we brought her in ourselves. Well, the regional approach is being fully pursued. Whether we are missionary or not, you have also recently seen this. New regions have been added in which cooperation has been strengthened. Employers, workers and the social partners are working very hard on the professional image in order to make progress. Of course, we would still like to have the additional structural resources; that is, of course, a hiccup. If that ever happens, then maybe a lot more liquid can suddenly become what is not liquid now, but it's not like we're leaning back now. There's no reason for that. In particular, because of the corona time..... we now see again how big the problems are.... we must remain fully sharp. And I'm gonna stay that way. Even this week, tomorrow, I have another meeting with the G5 in my agenda to discuss it with them. So also in the missionary time we keep the focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Minister does mention a number of hopeful points, that more and more people from the WW go into education and that there is occasional money. Of course we all know that there is extra money for education. But then my question is: how can the shortage of teachers in some places increase significantly? We're getting signals from the big cities that it's bigger than last year. There's a question mark on me, because how is that possible? A lot of business is being done. There are also a few positive points to name, but still that teacher shortage is greater in a number of places than last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u32	That's why I consciously have a moment... not to hide behind it, because that makes no sense at all. You know that was never my attitude to this problem either. But there is just a broad labour market problem in our society. Education doesn't get away from that. It is precisely in education that it is most noticeable, is my impression. If we're sitting on a terrace, and we might have done that recently... at least I have. By the way, I like that very much. I also noticed that sometimes you had to wait a lot longer, or that you had to order with one of those barcodes. That was even on the news last week, but I've been through it a few times myself, because there's just no staff. That is one example of a sector. There are major labour market problems in all sectors, but these are children. This concerns 2.5 million children. We'll just give them a teacher, a master, a teacher for the class. That's what we fight hard for. We have been able to do a great deal about this in recent years, but the problem of the labour market is getting deeper and deeper, so that also has an impact on what we do in education. I always give you the labour market figures. As you know, I have also ensured that these figures are much closer to our own time. They'll be back at the end of the year. Then there's always a prophecy about where you come out in five or ten years if you don't do anything. Well, we really have a hole in the projections that were there in 2017 and 2018. But a new deepening of labour market problems shows that the forecasts for five and ten years from now still show that deficits will occur if we do not continue with our policies and do something about them. So we must continue to fight with each other completely, together with the schools and the boards, to ensure that we can deal with this issue. This bill will help with that. That is also what I am saying in the context of good human resources policy. You have to make sure you hold your people and bring down the absenteeism. You also quoted that one percent and that 1,000 FTE replacement. That's not a small beer. So we must continue to work on it and fight for it. I will do the same until the very last day that I am in this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u33	We all know that there is a broader labour market problem. Nor is it my intention to have another discussion here about teacher shortages and to point at each other again. I think there will be a few more debates. I know we're working on a law right now. But we've been talking about these problems in education for years. Several actions have been set up. We are now hearing a number of hopeful figures from the Minister, which also refers to a fall in pupils. But there is a real question in my mind as to how these problems in education seem to be greater in a number of regions than last year. Does that have anything to do with a bigger dropout, with even more students who, after they've gone to work, fall out quickly, with absenteeism? Does the minister have a picture of that? What's that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u34	Of course, we will come back to this again separately, but very briefly: just when a labour market is out of control I say it is very visual and there are so many more vacancies than there are people in the WW, it offers people who are looking for work or who may want to work elsewhere much more opportunities. Just taking my own person as an example. Why did I end up in the east as a boy who grew up in the west? By the way, with great pleasure, but that was because of the labour market. And it was completely the other way around at the time. I applied silly in the neighborhood where I lived. I couldn't get a job there, but I could get a job in the east. That has been the lead from above, of course, but that also had to do with the labour market that was responsible for this. Now that's completely the other way around. Take the example of someone who works in Amsterdam. We know that the cost of living and other costs of living there can be a lot higher than when someone lives in the Achterhoek, to mention just a random place in the Netherlands. If you're having a lot of fun at your school, maybe you're thinking, "I'll just keep doing that." But if you also consider that you can possibly work closer to home, which means that you have less travel time, you might do so. By the way, I also see good examples of employers in the Randstad who, by offering very good staff policy to those who apply and who are also very actively approaching them to work with them, ensure that they can get back staff. So it's also a bit of an interaction. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are indeed gaps and often also in places where we do not want to. I would also refer to a motion by the Labour Party and the Animal Party on this point. The labour market allowance I have recently been able to spend was on the initiative of the Chamber. I noticed from the field of education, at least in part of the field of education, that they actually had something like 'we do not want it', but it was a request from the Chamber that I picked up as part of the school education programme. In the meantime, in the big cities, they are very happy with it.I have also heard the education aldermen of Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam say nice words about how they can make use of this labour market allowance in those difficult schools where staff might leave because they can go to another place. So that's how we're just gonna keep supporting them. I would also like to make a comment on the declining numbers of apprentices. That is also volatile; we also see fluctuations in it, because in some places we see the numbers of students increasing again. So that's not static either. Moreover, we are, of course, dealing with an ageing teaching corps in many places. Slowly but surely these people naturally flow into a new period in their lives, which we do grant them, but we also want their place to be taken back. So let's put our shoulders on each other and keep fighting for this and let's do what we can. And who knows what else can be done in the new cabinet period. I think I have been clear about the temporary safety net and how we intend to finance it with each other. For modernising the Participation Fund, it is also important that schools do very well so that they lose less of what they need to contribute than if they are less well-off for each other. In fact, you have two categories: 10% and 50%. Mr Peters has asked whether this does not mean that some school boards are going to sit back. In the discussions I have with not only the national representatives but also the schools themselves, I do notice that in the p.o. sector too, having a good staff policy, including taking good care of the staff, working preventively and ensuring that people do not go under and so that they are well supervised, is really a lot tighter between the ears than perhaps even three, four, five years ago. In terms of staff shortages, the pressure has increased, but I also see a growing responsibility. We are going to follow that, of course, but I am sure that this will help well. As far as the Participation Fund is concerned, I have just given the example of taking it out of the WW. I think that great class is what they are doing and I am really convinced that they will be able to do this in a new era as well. In fact, that leaves the issue of occupational health care. What can I say about that? I've already written down something about it. Let me begin by saying that the self-evident fact that this must be done in the law is not entirely self-evident to me. Let's take a look at what happened in the vo. In the vo played exactly the same. It's a responsibility of the school authorities to deal with it. That is what has been taken up in this House. They have opted for a national organisation, simply set up by the social partners themselves. You know it. The abbreviation "Can't" is "Can't" today. "Can't" is "Voion." That's gonna work fine. The official title was: labour market fund VO in Development, Voion. Maybe it doesn't tell you anything at all, but that might be a good sign, too. That works fine. That's just your own corporate health care as they founded it after doing exactly the same thing we want to do now for the p.o. And there's a little bit of my... I don't know what the word is I have to use. It's their responsibility. They are social partners and we give them a responsibility. I've noticed a few times in recent years that it's not to be you-baking in their direction, anyway, that it's complicated for them to take the full responsibility they have from the legislator. In fact, we have had exactly the same example of the labour market allowance. In fact, it is also up to them to settle that in the collective agreement, but because it is not money that has gone beyond two years, it has got stuck and we have had to deal with it in a much more complicated way. I finally said: I don't want teachers to suffer, so I'm going to take care of it in a different way. I should have given the money back to my colleague Hoekstra. But it does rub a little bit, as it's just their primary responsibility. What the Replacement Fund is doing now is a non-legislative task. It ended up with the Replacement Fund at some point. That's totally fine. It's possible. But it's a non-legal task. You've now received another letter about it. In October they sent one, by the way. Take a look at your file. I have, of course, also had a letter on this, but I think the argument is rather thin. It's their responsibility. They've been getting money for this in the lumpsum for a couple of years now, I'm sorry, Mr. Beertema, but that's how we've dealt with it. The Replacement Fund is therefore going to take on this as an additional task, a non-legislative task. If the Replacement Fund stops doing so, then it is the most royal and logical way that they themselves, from their responsibility, as in the vo, say: okay, people, hands together and we make sure that it says something. Maybe they could even join the Vo. I don't know. That's up to them. But that's actually very clear. I see Mr Peters coming forward, but I would like to finish, Mr President. As an argument it is now used that a redemption fee must be paid. Mr De Hoop took that up in his speech at once, although he might agree. Well, that's a little thin. Because the money they're talking about is money they get through premiums and then buy their own expertise for. That's not an equity that suddenly, when you're actually gonna take over something, you're gonna have to be paid off. That argument is really pretty thin. That is why I myself said in the note on the report: the substance is undesirable. I have pointed out the responsibility of the sector. But to make a long story short: I don't feel like putting arms on this either, because the result is that it's going to take a very long time again. And you are absolutely right: this is crucial, also in addressing the staff shortage. The amendment is therefore judged by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u35	Wow. Mr. Peters isn't spontaneously interrupting anymore, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, not anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u37	No. Judgment Room. That's what you've been working towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u38	If I say that, we're going for it. Let's not get too confused about that. You can really take this as a matter of principle. Then I really think I have a right to speak. I hope that you will also realise that we will make it a legal task. Then we will do something other than what we did at the Vo's, but they didn't ask for it either. We'll make sure the lake is secured now. If we hadn't done that, they should have made a tender. If so, the Participation Fund could have had it. Of course, it's a bit of work, but it's the royal route if you do it as we intended in our regulations. But this is also fine. I can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u39	Of course, I'm not going to oppose that at all, but hasn't the Minister's mind come by to see if you can get it to Voion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u40	But it's their responsibility. I always like to think with them. I wouldn't have thought it was a crazy idea at all, but that's different from what this amendment is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u41	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u42	This amendment says that some of you have taken full account of the argument contained in the letter on "I'm saying that if we don't do this, it's going to cost a lot of money and we're going to have to buy it off. I dare to doubt that here out loud. I'm not gonna make a big deal out of it. Again, I think the fundamental point is: what are you responsible for? That is, of course, something that goes with my entire ministry in the context of tackling the teacher shortages. I'm always standing here. I'm always talking to you. I do that from the system responsibility I have, but the boards are primarily responsible for their personnel policy. We have to support them, because there are big problems, we have a responsibility for children and so on. But we have to be careful not to turn things around too easily and make everything a government responsibility, because then we will be busy for a while. Then there are other topics to think about. I'm not going to make it too sour, either, because I don't think it is. I used the summer well. In the end, I think it was written down a little too tight. Let's be pragmatic about it. I'll give the amendment judgment Chamber. I very much hope that we will get rid of the Replacement Fund quickly, that we will have a good safety net for the schools that need it for a number of years and that the Participation Fund will continue in a smooth movement in the way it has already been doing. They're classmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. I'm looking at the room. Is there a need for a second term? I see a collective no shake. Mrs Westerveld has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u44	I have one more question, because I was just triggered by the Minister, who said very clearly that the staff policy in schools is even a lot better than it was a few years ago. I remember from the time I worked at the General Education Association that a lot of school boards didn't even have a proper evaluation and functioning cycle. I would like to ask the Minister how that is monitored. How is schools monitored to deal with their personnel policies? Because that is very important for the preservation of teachers in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u45	When I say that I see that this is really a development, it does not mean that everything is going well. It stands or falls very badly with people. It is part of the inspection supervision that one looks at how they have their affairs in order, how they deal with the staff, you name it. We have a number of legal provisions to comply with. That's important. The most beautiful thing is that it is not because a supervisor comes along, but that one realizes intrinsically oneself: people, this is so important; we have to go for this. That's not just because you're careful with your own staff. I think it should just be a matter of honor that you take good care of the people who work for you. If that doesn't happen, if you don't do it as an employer, you should be deeply ashamed. This is even more true in the context of the large staff shortages. You know that we really had quite different numbers a few years before that huge dip suddenly came. Then drivers suddenly looked back and said: my whole replacement pool is empty; where are my replacements anyway? Yeah, they'd just let that go sometimes. If they had taken better care of those people, if they had previously given appointments and could have taken some risk in doing so, we would have had a discussion about the reserves and the like, and you know that some school boards could have done it: with the reserves they had, they could have taken a little more risk in terms of staff than they might have been prevented. Maybe not in some places, either. It's not like things go wrong everywhere, but there's a world to be won here. I think that this legislative amendment can contribute to even more sharpness in the sector, not only because the financial consequences are going to be even more self-evident, which sometimes helps to be a little more alert; that is human.... but also simply because it is desperately necessary to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u46	That's what my next question is about. Less and less schools use the Replacement Fund. Will schools where things are not going well be accompanied in one way or another, now that these funds are slowly disappearing? Many schools, of course, pay a lot of attention to good human resources policy, but is there another way to use this bill to better guide schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have just said this in the direction of Mrs Paul. Regional coordinators are available to guide schools to properly address their own risk control and to implement a HRM responsibility. They are based in the Participation Fund. From there, that guidance can continue. So that's what we made sure of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'll look around one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. It's been a pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u50	I have the feeling that we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-6.u51	The law and the amendment will be voted on next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:50 p.m. Then we shall continue with the next debate.
