ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate... Excuse me, let's see. What's going on? The 30-member debate on action by European farmers' organisations against free trade agreements. Once again, I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, as well as the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, and of course the Members. There are three minutes' speaking time. There are ten speakers, so I'm going to limit the number of interruptions. We'll do the interruptions in two at the most. If you can agree, I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the tilting time in which we live, namely towards an economy that fits within the capacity of the earth, the outgoing cabinet, the European Commission and the largest parties in this Chamber continue to press for new free trade treaties. Free trade agreements lead to a greater ecological footprint, more power for the largest polluting companies and more competition for our farmers. CETA hangs like a thunder cloud over the heads of our farmers. While a majority in parliament wants the Netherlands to withdraw its support for the Mercosur Treaty, negotiations are still ongoing and the cabinet has still not formally indicated to the EU that this Chamber is against Mercosur. While all signals for the climate are red, fossil multinationals make claims against the Dutch state thanks to the Energy Charter Treaty. Today the Trade Anders! coalition protested against it. Mr. Chairman. The old growth economy is still trying to exploit as much of the earth as possible and fossil politicians are trying to facilitate it. But I told you, we live in a tilt time. Resistance to free trade agreements is growing enormously. That is why we also have this debate, following the massive peasant protests. It has already made it extremely difficult for Dutch farmers by parties such as the VVD and the CDA, who have played down the nitrogen problem for years and who said to our farmers: if you invest in a stable, you can just keep on doing so. Now farmers are even in danger of being expropriated. Farmers are so in trouble right now. Then it cannot be true that we are still focusing on more competition by concluding more free trade agreements. The current treaties such as CETA lead to a race to the bottom. The Netherlands is an expensive country. Our land and labour are soon more expensive than those of foreign competitors. Farmers deserve protection against unfair competition through free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u3	An interruption for you from Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u4	I can very well follow Mrs Teunissen when it comes to sustainability and the protection we have to offer for nature in the Netherlands, but also nature in other parts of the world. At the same time, I hear such a strong argument against free trade, that my question to Mrs Teunissen is: are you also against fair trade? 'Cause I'm actually hearing that you're mostly against increasing trade. Then I wonder whether the Animal Party is also against all those farmers who want to export more, who produce more sustainably and who set a good example in the world. Because that too may be highlighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u5	The Animal Party is, of course, very much in favour of fair trade. On the contrary, we see that free trade agreements are going in the wrong direction, because not the smaller farmers, the SMEs, benefit from them, but the large multinationals. This is why fair trade gets in the way of tribulation. We need to get rid of that. Free trade agreements lead to lower production standards, not higher production standards. They lead to worse and not better conditions for animal welfare. That is why the Animal Party says: we must get rid of free trade agreements now. We must work towards fair trade within the capacity of the earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u6	I fully agree on fair world trade. I see free trade agreements and trade agreements as a key to the discussion with other countries, which we cannot otherwise have, in order to improve the situation of people, nature and the environment. I am also critical, including on certain aspects of trade in the world. But does Mrs Teunissen not agree with D66 that we should continue to have the conversation, no matter how difficult and difficult it may be, rather than what the Animal Party sometimes does in this kind of debate, which is to say immediately: pull back behind the dike; we are not going to do it at all anymore. Because then you just don't talk about making the world more sustainable. Isn't that what Mrs Teunissen is afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u7	I find it remarkable that D66 says that trade should be a kind of condition for achieving lasting agreements. We have a Paris agreement with countries around the world. We have a biodiversity convention. None of this is ideal yet, but it is a huge step forward. We do not need trade agreements, and certainly not multilateral free trade agreements. That's the point. So we're not against fair trade. In fact, we're very much in favour of that. We are also in favour of making good appointments. But as soon as free trade is promoted and production standards are lowered, we say: it is going completely in the wrong direction. Now we're at a tipping point. We must work towards a sustainable economy, within the capacity of the earth and within the ecological limits. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, free trade agreements, as they now look, have no place in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u8	Thank you. Then there is another interruption for you from Mr Klink of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u9	I hear Mrs Teunissen say that trade agreements lead to worse standards. I wonder what examples Mrs Teunissen can give of the standards within the European Union that have become worse for farmers in the Netherlands and the EU through trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u10	I would like to remind the VVD of the association agreement with Ukraine. It was always said: no, farmers, don't worry, the production standards will not go down. And what do you see? Then eggs come in here that are produced with laying batteries. Plofchickens have flooded the market. Now it's too late, because now we have this competition. Then we'll all have to go back into patching agents to improve that. That is an example of how disastrous free trade can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u11	I think it is important to mention it, because now Mrs Teunissen is pretending that it has changed for all standards. Of course, farmers in the European Union and Dutch farmers have not changed their standards. That's what you're suggesting, and I think that's pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u12	Mrs Teunissen. I haven't heard a question, but you may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u13	I have not suggested that farmers here have changed their standards. I just want to point out that many countries do not comply with the production standards we agreed on in the Netherlands. The products that come in here do not meet the standards we have agreed here in the Netherlands and in the European Union. That's what's gonna get our farmers killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u14	I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. Liberalisation of trade is also at the expense of small farmers and indigenous peoples in the global South, who are often driven out of their country by force or lose their livelihood because large areas are deforested. This is partly to enable extra exports to the EU. A similar process of land rights and natural destruction is now underway in Indonesia. By means of a possible trade agreement, extra palm oil or biodiesel can be exported from palm oil. Mr. Chairman. Only if we distance ourselves from free trade agreements will there be a chance of a fair trading system within the capacity of the earth. That is why, in conclusion, I have the following questions to the cabinet. How can the Minister of Agriculture reconcile circular agriculture and free trade? Does it recognise that free trade agreements have so far not led to an increase in production standards, but to a significant reduction in production standards? And I would like to ask the Minister of Trade what importance he stands for. Does he stand for our farmers? Does he agree that we should no longer agree to lowering import tariffs, increasing quotas and other forms of liberalisation of agricultural products that can also be produced here in the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you. Please stand still. There's another interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u17	That's right. I would like to give Mrs Teunissen a heartfelt voice. I fully agree with her argument on the method of production. But did I hear very carefully perhaps a very small compliment to our farmers that we are not doing very bad at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u18	I think our farmers are stuck in a system they didn't choose. I'm not saying it's worse here than in other countries. We have indeed taken certain steps, but it is still within a system that causes inherent damage, which inherently leads to scaling up, which inherently leads to more manure, more nitrogen and more misery. I am not blaming the farmers for that, but I blame the banks for that, and the politicians who have argued for this great scale for years. We now see on all sides that a turning point is inevitable. There really needs to be a turning point for nature, but also for the sake of the farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u19	Mrs. Van Weerdenburg. Mrs. Van der Plas, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u20	Still, yeah. It's called a debate, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u21	I thought you were asking for compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u22	Yes, and I have heard a great deal of talk about it, and I know the position of Mrs Teunissen and of the Animal Party alone it was not an answer to my question. I was just asking if there might still be a little compliment in there somewhere, while we've been getting closer in the last two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u23	Firstly, I am pleased that Mrs Van der Plas appreciates my speech. Secondly, that she fishes for compliments, I find perfectly logical from her point of view. I am not so much complimenting the Dutch farmers, because a lot is going wrong. That is just what I said in my reply. What I want to argue here is that at least we should not go for a lowering of standards. So that's what you do with free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u24	I'm a little surprised, because I haven't heard anything new. This is the well-known story of the Party for Animals, which the PVV strongly agrees with. It is one of the few areas where we can find each other. But these are actually the same arguments that we have been discussing in committee for years. So my question to Mrs Teunissen is: what is the urgency of this debate? Why are we standing here in the plenary? TTIP is still, CETA is in the First Chamber and the Minister is not going to say anything about Mercosur, because she is going to wait until everything is translated and legally cleaned up. So why are we standing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u25	It is not that it is completely still, because CETA is still hanging above the heads of the farmers in the Netherlands and above the heads of nature. That's on the negotiating table. So in that respect, it is very topical and, above all, we need to raise our voices and show that we should not agree with CETA. It is also true that this cabinet has recently assessed a review of the European Commission's trade policy. It also states that the Netherlands will continue to conclude free trade agreements. It is also true that a lot of behind-the-scenes negotiations within the European Union continue. The Netherlands also has a voice in that. So in that respect it remains very topical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u26	Agreed. I didn't say it wasn't topical either. We talk about it on a regular basis in committee. My question was: why is it so urgent that we are here in plenary this evening, until probably 12 o'clock, and that we could not do so in a committee debate? At least the applicant felt it was more important to be in a television studio. That's all fine. The Party for Animals is about its own delegation and Mrs Teunissen is also very competent. But why does it have to be here in plenary today? What's the urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u27	Shortly, Mrs Teunissen, because we're not going to change anything about that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u28	I think the PVV also knows that this is a 30-member debate and that it often takes some time for this to be put on the agenda in the Chamber. That's the way it works. As a Party for Animals, we have no influence on that. This debate was already requested in 2019 as a result of the farmers protests. That's what I just mentioned in my contribution. Those peasant protests were against the free trade agreements. It has taken some time for this debate to take place, but as I have just said, it is still very relevant to talk about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u29	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You can indeed discuss the urgency of this debate. Let me at least say that my party is pleased that TTIP has been buried. We are opposed to CETA in its present form, and Mercosur has not been designed in the way we would like it to be. At the same time, GroenLinks is a multilateral party. We believe that the only way to make the world better is to work with others. You're gonna have to endure for that. We want fair trade. We want trade in which corporate social responsibility is well secured. That can be tolerated, too, if you make the right arrangements. We are talking about free trade agreements between rich countries all the time, but what is much more important is that we conclude fairer agreements with countries that are far behind in their development. I grew up in the Achterhoek myself. I spent my weekends and holidays on a farm, that of Westerveld in Sinderen. I've been the director of a development organization for years. I have visited many small farmers all over the world, for example in Uganda with former Minister Veerman. These farmers must be hooked up in value chains, and those value chains are international. You can make a fair deal about that. We have to do this as Europe, because there are others too, and I am looking at China, which is trying to get much ground in Africa, under conditions that are even worse for the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate change. I would therefore like to call on this cabinet to step up its efforts to promote fair trade. I would also be very pleased if we could develop a framework within Europe in which every trade agreement, which is preferably a fair trade agreement, is tested on how free it is, how honest it is and how strong the CSR conditions are secured in it. That is a review framework that can be removed every time a new treaty is on the table. So I call on the Cabinet to work on that. More specifically about the discussions on the partnership between Europe and Africa, I would like to ask the cabinet: how can we promote fair trade between Europe and Africa? At the same time, I also see farmers protesting. We are the second exporting country in the world in terms of agriculture. The Dutch farmers have grown up thanks to trade. They're also in an impossible earning model. Things have to change. But they too will need trade in the future, on fair terms, on conditions that are good for the earth, for the fight against climate change and the preservation of biodiversity. That is what our efforts must be aimed at. I think that we in the Chamber might agree on the substance quite broadly. However, the question is: are you prepared to cooperate internationally, within Europe and within Europe, we have already largely transferred competence in the field of trade to Europe, as well as to other countries in the world? Unfortunately, there are separate ways, but fortunately, I still see a reasonable majority in the Chamber that may be able and willing to allow fair trade agreements, especially with developing countries, in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u31	Thank you. I see an interruption by Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u32	I think it's a good plea. I actually agree with a great deal of it. But I also fear that it is a lot of paper that Mr Van der Lee describes, not practice. He himself mentioned CETA and Mercosur, and then TTIP. GroenLinks didn't agree to that. Do I understand that's still true? Or do you say, "Well, if they change this and this, we'll agree?" You know that CETA is being considered and that it is being said: if we put a complaint counter in it, then perhaps parties will still go along with it. GroenLinks says: no, we're not going for that; those are mirrors and beads? Or are you saying there's talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u33	No. I started my speech by explaining that the position of GroenLinks is still identical to that of previous debates, both on TTIP and CETA and on Mercosur. But what I want to warn you about is this. Especially when you have progressive thoughts, you have to avoid that the whole debate on trade is only conducted by people who are chasing classical free trade. We shouldn't give up the whole battlefield to others. That is also strange to me about the position of the Party for Animals. I'm sorry to say that. It is precisely the hope that we can conclude treaties that make biodiversity and climate change much more central that we should continue to interfere instead of saying: no more treaties should be concluded at all. This is extremely risky, because trade will continue in an anarchy situation. Then it is no longer free trade, but completely brutal capitalism. We really shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u34	Very specific about CETA. Does GroenLinks say: CETA, as far as we are concerned, is that off the table? Or are you saying there's talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u35	Our position was, is and remains that CETA does not receive our support. We have also indicated this here in the Chamber, so that is questions about the familiar road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u36	Clear. Mr. Van Dijk, you're a rotten old man and an example for all newer MPs. We'll talk through the chairman. I know it's hard on you, but try again. I see Mrs Teunissen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u37	I do feel called upon to respond for a moment, because Mr Van der Lee spoke of a curious position of the Party for Animals. I believe that our position is crystal clear: we are in favour of fair trade, we are not against the conclusion of agreements, but we are opposed to free trade agreements which lead to a reduction in production standards, an increase in quotas and further liberalisation. That does not help our farmers, but it does not help farmers in developing countries. The multinationals benefit from these free trade agreements. There is often also a clause, the ICS clause, in which multinationals are given even more legal protection. Can GroenLinks at least indicate that it does not, now and in the future, agree to trade agreements that lead to production standards and include an ICS clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u38	I think we are quite close to each other in terms of content, but it is getting complicated when you put forward a motion twice that excludes agricultural profits for all trade agreements in the future. Then you put me in an impossible position, because fair trade agreements are also trade agreements. If you're more precise in what you say you want, then we can find each other. But the practice has so far, twice, been another. That is why we were forced to vote against this motion twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u39	Mrs Teunissen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u40	In any case, two motions for resolutions contained agreements. That is what we are talking about today's free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u41	But it didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u42	I can reassure Mr Van der Lee. I have another motion here. It's reworded. I think we're gonna get very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u43	Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u44	I'm curious about the text. Then I'll assess the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u45	We're gonna see. Thank you. I call Mr Klink of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u46	Mr. Chairman. Free trade agreements allow us to make the world a little more beautiful for humans, animals and the environment. The Netherlands is a major exporter of agricultural products. This is a good international trading position of vital importance for our farmers, gardeners and fishermen. According to Wageningen Economic Research, 75% of every euro that farmers and growers earn comes from abroad, and three out of every five farmers still exist thanks to exports. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group believes that the European trade agreements are of great importance for the Netherlands and the rest of the world. In other countries they raise standards. Take, for example, the EU Treaty with Vietnam, which should have led that country to join the International Labour Organization. It also ensures that Dutch entrepreneurs have equal opportunities worldwide and thus ensure prosperity. Of course, there are also farmers who face additional competition. We understand these sensitivities. That is why it is good that trade agreements often contain quotas for agricultural products, but I also want to acknowledge honestly that we can never take care of everyone. If entrepreneurs can export extra to a third country by means of a treaty, entrepreneurs will also have more opportunities on our market there. Mr. Chairman. The EU-Canada Trade Agreement, CETA, is good. We must, of course, also bear in mind the opportunities that are already possible in the other trading bloc. I'm talking about technical innovations. In Canada, the use of CRISPR-Cas, the precise adaptation of DNA in, for example, fruit cultivation, is permitted. The Netherlands must take another step in the EU to regulate it at European level, so that our growers too can use this technique. Now we see processing companies moving too often for this reason to Canada. The VVD Group has asked several questions about this. I therefore have a new question: do you want to make a strong commitment within the EU to enable proven technological innovations in trading blocks with which the EU has concluded an agreement, including for the EU and its Member States? Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is proud that the export of Dutch seed and seed goods worldwide contributes to food security. Recently, I drew attention to the export of potato seed potatoes to the United Kingdom. It is regrettable that the United Kingdom does not want mutual market access for seed potatoes. That is very special, because the United Kingdom and Scotland, in particular, also have an interest in exporting this high-quality product to the European Union. The cabinet states that the solution must be found between the EU and the United Kingdom. It is very good that the Netherlands has once again drawn the Commission's attention to the importance of mutual market access for potato seed. I have a few additional questions about this. Ministers are free to decide who answers these questions. Is there cooperation with other Member States, such as Ireland? Officially, a request for derogation must go through the Commission to DEFRA, but are there any other avenues? Has the United Kingdom made agreements with other countries on seedlings? Will the Minister investigate this and make an effort to do so? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Teunissen, I said that I would limit the number of interruptions. You're already approaching your tax. Do you still want to interrupt? Is that worth it? Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u48	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Does the VVD recognise that the VVD is all about free trade? I have not heard anything in your contribution about possible climate or human rights agreements. I didn't hear anything about that in your contribution. Do you recognise that you are only concerned with free trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u49	I only have three minutes. I think I've taken full advantage of it. I can't add any more. But it is true that future trade agreements, and certainly the Paris Agreement, which we all support, must have a prominent role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u50	Thank you. I call Mr Hammelburg of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee, of course, had a point. Mrs Van Weerdenburg, of course, also had a point. We have had this debate on a number of occasions in committees. At the moment, we do not have a specific question about a treaty. But perhaps it would be good to look more fundamentally at the issue of trade, fair trade. Then I will join Mr Van der Lee. I find the contradiction that is created problematic. I am truly convinced, and D66 is truly convinced that through fair trade we can work not only on our prosperity, but also on sustainability, our nature and our environment. That doesn't just apply to us. The same applies to the countries with which we trade. I think that the prosperity we owe to trade in the Netherlands should also be given to other countries. I find the classical contradiction between free trade and trade very problematic in this debate. That's just where my interruption to the Party for Animals came from. I would therefore like to say: let us look honestly at all the treaties that are to come. Let's keep an eye on agriculture. Let's keep an eye on nature. Let's keep an eye on the environment. But let's stop the contradiction that's being created so hard. Yes, we do see that trade in the Netherlands and abroad can also have raw edges. We need to keep an eye on that. But closing the eyes and pretending it's all boo and bah, and pulling us back behind the dikes, I find very problematic. I have already said this to the Animal Party in committee. I find this not only problematic for our own businesses and our own farmers, who are focusing on sustainability and circularity. They must also be able to export. But I also find it unfair to all the other countries that trade with us. I find it unfair to all those farmers, which Mr Van der Lee was talking about. My appeal to the Party for Animals is therefore to have an eye on both sides and to climb up that dike, look over the sea and look at other people. It's about sustainability. It's about the environment. It's about nature. But it's also about people, and those people deserve that. Mr. Chairman. There's still so much to say. But, frankly, we've had so many debates on this. I do not see a topical issue at the moment. The debate was requested in 2019. The only question I would like to put to the Ministers is as follows. I refer to the aspects that Mrs Teunissen also mentioned. What progress has been made at the moment in the outgoing cabinet on how we can shape trade agreements in the future in such a way that we have much more regard for the agricultural sector, including those parts of the agricultural sector that Mrs van der Plas is calling for, and for people, nature and the environment? I would very much like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to look at Mrs Teunissen, who has been mentioned in various contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u53	I really want to be brief, but there is often a call to the Party for Animals, so I would like to ask another question. D66 talks about achieving sustainability goals through free trade agreements and that the Animal Party should therefore not serve free trade agreements. It would be a global improvement in the sustainability of trade. Can Mr Hammelburg give one example of a free trade agreement that has actually led to an improvement in climate or nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u54	I believe that we have already taken very good steps in the agreement with Canada. Then I'd like to ask the Animal Party the question again. I never get an answer to that, in any debate. At the moment when we no longer conclude treaties, we exclude ourselves from the discussions on sustainability. Then we as the Netherlands can no longer make demands. I find that exhausting. I agree with Mrs Teunissen that there is still a great deal to improve, certainly, also towards the future. Let's take a look at that. But I keep hearing about this every time, and that was what my interruption was about at the beginning of this debate: we have to stop trading now because it can't be fair. That is actually the reasoning and I have a great deal of difficulty with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u55	Mrs Teunissen still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u56	Of course, it's nonsense that the Party for Animals wants to stop trading. We are talking about free trade agreements. Does Mr Hammelburg agree with me, then, that further liberalisation cannot be the goal in view of all the challenges we face, such as the ecological crisis and the climate crisis? Your party is in favour of circular agriculture. How can you reconcile this with a treaty that promotes intrinsically, inherently, free trade and thus a reduction in production standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u57	No, in the end you conclude treaties with countries to raise production standards, not only in the Netherlands but also across the border. The climate problem is not confined to borders; so does Mrs Teunissen. So why don't you use those treaties to make those improvements instead of resisting them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u58	Thank you. Then there is another interruption by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u59	I am really standing here with my ears blazing, because I hear D66 saying: yes, it is also about climate and it is also about environment and sustainability, but it is also about people. But in the same breath, D66 is constantly trying to stress that the livestock must be reduced and that our farmers should really just leave. And then we talk about other countries and then it's: yes, but you're also talking about people. We are also talking about our own people here. I really can't reach that with my hat. How is D66 going to explain to the electorate that our farmers are getting the cord, proverbial, because they have to produce according to ever higher standards and meet more and more conditions, while D66 is opening the gates of Europe to food, widely produced under much lower standards, environmental, climate and sustainability technology, which comes with shiploads full of this? Our farmers are getting more and more rules imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u61	And, finally, about the food that we are going to eat and that we are actually eating right now. Mrs Teunissen quite rightly pointed out that we simply eat battery eggs in the Netherlands, which our farmers are not allowed to produce. How are you going to explain to your constituents that they are going to eat food produced under much lower standards than what farmers produce here in the Netherlands and in the EU? How are you going to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u62	Mr. Hammelburg, and hopefully the answer is shorter than the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u63	The many questions, I would say, Mr President. In the Netherlands and across the borders of the Netherlands, we are simply facing enormous problems with climate and environment. We do not escape to reform the agricultural sector here in the Netherlands but also abroad towards circular, towards more sustainable. That brings with it pain, but it also brings with it opportunities. So we have to look at that. We can't pretend like nothing's going on. This is sometimes a difficult message, but that applies to all farmers in the Netherlands and abroad. In my debate with Mrs Teunissen, I also made it clear that we must work to that end, including in trade agreements. But Mrs van der Plas cannot get rid of the fact that we are dealing with a nitrogen crisis and climate change. As a result, we need changes, including in the agricultural sector. That debate has already been held on many occasions, and Mrs van der Plas is always avoiding that debate and the climate crisis, and I object to it. I find that very problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u64	Mrs. Van der Plas, briefly. You yourself will have three minutes to make your own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u65	Yeah, well, short or not short, I'd like to say a few words. D66 is, once again, working on tightening up all the rules here, recycling agriculture, sustainability, you name it, and it opens the gates of Europe to large-scale food production, products that our own farmers are not allowed to produce but which we are allowed to consume. I ask a very simple question: how do you explain this to the farmers and how do you explain it to the citizens? And then I get some woolly story about the nitrogen crisis and I know a lot about what my question isn't about at all. Like Mr. Jetten last week, it's obviously very difficult for people from D66 to just answer a question. How do you explain this to the citizens? How do you explain that in the coffee cookie they have tonight there are probably battery eggs, while our farmers in the Netherlands have been banned from producing them for ten years? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u66	This is really nice. I'm getting an interruption with three questions in it, and I'm answering that. On the third question, I will give you a better answer. The first one I've answered extensively, I think. In my opinion, there is also a real problem with BBB: the denial of the climate crisis, when I hear it like that. Let me put it very clearly. We have very clear production standards in the European Union. This means that when we import we make very clear demands on what is and is not allowed to be in our food. Mrs Van der Plas is acting like she isn't. That is an unfair message to all Dutch consumers. Well, I guess I'll leave it at that. I think that was a very clear answer to your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u67	Mrs. Van der Plas, that's it. Interrupts in two have been agreed. No, you don't get to speak anymore. You may explain that in your own term, so please take a seat. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u68	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Multilateral trade agreements such as CETA, TTIP and Mercosur make a lot of loosening in society. Countless citizens and organisations have already expressed their voices in protest, and their criticism is justified. As Mrs van der Plas has just quite rightly said, it is absurd and unacceptable that farmers in the Netherlands should be subject to all kinds of sustainability requirements, while products from Paraguay or Brazil, for example, which may be produced far below those standards, come on the market here in the Netherlands. It is the death blow for our own farmers, who have been applying very high standards of food safety, animal welfare and sustainability for years. Nevertheless, these trade treaties are imposed on us by the ruling political elite, because those trade treaties are part of the great European project, of the unelected Brussels EU rains that want to determine everything and hate difficult national parliaments that insist on democratic control and national sovereignty. Mr. Chairman. Surely you would think that this cabinet had learned its lesson when the CETA Convention almost stranded in this Chamber. Back then Minister Kaag was in her shirt last year, when in a marathon debate, spread over three days, she could not convince the Chamber. The panic was great when the PVV, together with the SGP, pointed out that the CETA Treaty deviated from the Constitution and could only be adopted by qualified majority. We tabled an amendment to remedy that defect in the introduction law. For days then Minister Kaag had to use the hat around marginal parties to beg for support. A common cow business followed, and unfortunately successfully. The law was passed by a small majority by the Lower House; a state-law low point. The PVV still finds it indigestible that a treaty that goes directly against our Constitution should not be presented to Parliament with the prescribed two-thirds majority, because it should be. Multilateral trade agreements create a variety of decision-making bodies to develop the Convention further. They are given the power to take all kinds of binding decisions in the implementation of the Convention, which, among other things, is automatically bound by the Netherlands as a contracting party, without our parliament or our courts being able to argue against it. Mr. Chairman. Questions relating to the content of the Mercosur Convention are useless at the moment, because the Minister will reply that the cabinet will only make a judgment when all the texts have been translated and legally cleaned up. I would like to tell him that he, like the final Mercosur trade agreement, has the same structure as CETA, with treaty committees that are going to take binding decisions, can look forward to a similar amendment from the PVV. We'll make sure that's done. Finally, Mr President. Let us hope that the First Chamber will do what it has to do, and that is to respect the Constitution and wipe the CETA implementation law off the table. As far as Mercosur is concerned, this Chamber has already decided that this deal should be cancelled. The cabinet should simply implement this motion and let Brussels know immediately that under no circumstances does the Netherlands agree with the Mercosur deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u69	Thank you. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested a long time ago; that is true. But that doesn't mean the actuality of it is gone. These free trade agreements can easily be put on a shelf and reappear a year later. They come back from Brussels with equal ease. You will always hear a number of treaties: CETA with Canada, the Mercosur agreement with South America and the TTIP agreement with America, which fortunately has been buried before. There are other treaties as well. I would like to ask this government: can you reflect on the debate you are hearing here? Do you recognise that these treaties are at least highly controversial and that there are serious concerns about the lowering of standards, the loss of control and the unfair competition they can bring about? That's what we're worried about. Those treaties have not been implemented regularly either, because the opposition was too strong. And rightly so. Similarly, the farmers' organisations that are the cause of this debate. Mr. Chairman. I am afraid I already know the response of this government, unfortunately, at least that of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It simply stated that the so-called quasi-regulating agreement of VVD and D66 in connection with the talks with informant Hamer: "We encourage more trade and investment agreements to be concluded, and continue CETA'. Well, I'd think twice about it before I started negotiating with such parties. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with this view, in relation to all the concerns which the Chamber has mentioned today. We also received a letter this week. Maybe the government can respond to that. Mr President, finally, on the Energy Charter Treaty, the ECT. That is another treaty, which passes seamlessly into the other treaties; there is a lot of overlap in it. It allows energy companies to take countries to court if they get in the way of their investments. We also know that from CETA and TTIP. The Netherlands is also being sued by the German coal group RWE for deciding to stop coal. That goes a long way, doesn't it, that a company can sue the Netherlands, because we here politically-democratically decide to stop coal-fired power stations. They'll come at us to sue us. I'd like to hear from this minister how he feels about that. Does he recognise that many countries are deeply concerned about this? I understand that the ministers are discussing who is going to do this. If that is the Minister for Agriculture, that is equally excellent. But it's about trade agreements; this is one. My question is: does the government share the view that the Netherlands should withdraw from this treaty, just as other European countries want to do? Please update your views.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u71	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2019 farmers' organisations from Germany, Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Luxembourg came together to take action against free trade agreements. That's very understandable. Small farmers in Europe are often hit hard and have to compete with other countries, with lower sustainability requirements. On the other hand, farmers outside Europe are being forced to compete from the market in their own countries by large multinationals. We have not yet discussed the impact of free trade on our climate and working standards. Mr. Chairman. In today's international society, it may seem difficult or impossible to be ambitious, because polarisation and economic gain are used to fight the geopolitical power game. But that does not free us to change ourselves and shape a new generation of trade agreements worldwide. It is therefore high time for reflection. Trade itself is not good or bad; trade is an instrument. The question is: why do we trade and how do we want to trade now and in the future? In general terms, therefore, I would like to ask what the Minister's view is on this. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission is reviewing the 15-point Action Plan to better integrate trade and sustainable development, following the Franco-Dutch non-paper. It also examines the impact of sanctions and other ways of making sustainable development enforceable in free trade agreements. Can the Minister give an initial indication of what has been shown so far? What is the Dutch commitment? And is the Minister satisfied with the progress of integrating sustainable development and trade at European level? Does the Minister also see the possibility of adding sustainability standards in relation to agriculture? And does the Minister consider that the recently appointed EU Head of Enforcement for Trade has added value from this point of view? Are the establishment of this function and the mandate to which it belongs sufficient to ensure that sustainable development is adequately ensured? What other steps does the Netherlands intend to take unilaterally or at EU level? Is not progress on other issues a prerequisite for integrating sustainable development and trade at European level, such as a Europe-wide ambitious policy for international corporate social responsibility? With a view to achieving a global level playing field, should the Netherlands through the EU not focus solely on multilateral agreements, with joint agreements on product standards and the way in which we operate? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Complex issues cannot be solved with a simple answer. Trade isn't black-and-white. Trade is able to bring prosperity, but it can also increase inequalities or harm the climate. So the question is, how do we use trade? It is time for trade instruments to improve lives, create prosperity, empower citizens and raise living standards worldwide, in the areas of climate, labour and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u73	Thank you very much. I call Mrs van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We consume what we are not allowed to produce. Even the cookies at the coffee that the outgoing Prime Minister loves so much, I saw last week, contain raw materials that our farmers themselves are not allowed to produce. This alone should be a reason for everyone here to say no to free trade agreements with countries that do not meet our production requirements. All the fine words about circular agriculture, sustainability, climate and animal welfare are worthless if the Netherlands continues to sign these treaties. As far as I am concerned, anyone who says 'yes' to this should never say the words'sustainable', 'cycle', 'animal welfare' and 'climate' again. The fact that farmers and growers are against world trade is a ridiculous frame that is constantly being placed on the farmers' plate by those who support this type of trade agreement. When a farmer opens his mouth about why these kinds of treaties are a bad idea, he or she hears: you export yourselves too; weird that you are then against trade. Of course, farmers are not against trade, nor are citizens, but they are against trade with an uneven playing field. By putting the above-mentioned frames on their plates, those who say this not only despise the intelligence and independent thinking of the farmer and the citizen. These people are also passing by the crazy quality of the food we bring across national borders. People, especially outside the EU, who eat our food, eat food of a higher quality and not of a lower quality and produced under less high standards, as is the case with many trade agreements. And yes, the agricultural sector in the Netherlands is indeed exporting, about 70%. Of this 70%, about 70% to 80% remain within the EU, even more so, within a radius of 600 to 800 kilometres around us. Just in front of your image: if you produce in Canada or in America for people living in a 600-mile radius, it's called a regional product. Someone who eats a Dutch egg in Cologne eats from closer to home than a North Spaniard who eats serranoham or chorizo from southern Spain. One, 250 kilometers away, is called "export" for some with a dirty word; the other, 800 kilometers, is called a "local product." Our citizens are increasingly eating food that does not meet EU requirements and Dutch requirements. An example of Rutte's cookie: laying batteries have been banned in the Netherlands and the EU for almost ten years, but meanwhile Dutch food companies import millions of battery eggs from Ukraine, which they put in our cookies, but also in the pastas and sauces, for example. The Dutch citizens, including our outgoing Prime Minister, are allowed to consume what our farmers are not allowed to produce. How crooked is that? I'd like an answer from the Minister. If politics really took our farmers and citizens seriously, all the parties in this room should be against this as one front. Once again, trade is fine, but it is: equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u75	Thank you. There is an interruption for you from Mr Thijssen, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u76	I agree with Mrs van der Plas that farmers can be the victims of this kind of free trade agreements. I think employees can be, too, so that's where we're on the same side as the PvdA. I do think farmers in the Netherlands have to go through a lot of hoops and comply with a lot of rules, because we have a very big nitrogen problem in the Netherlands. I think that is because our agricultural system has a lot of animals on a small surface. This means that there are more costs for Dutch farmers than for foreign farmers. Does Mrs Van der Plas agree with me that this creates an uneven playing field between farmers in Canada and those in the Netherlands, which protects Dutch farmers and creates problems for Dutch farmers in the free trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u77	I think that is a very special argument. Of course, it depends on what standard you set as a country. In Germany, farmers are allowed much more than in the Netherlands. It's just what you define as a government. Apart from that, our farmers have reduced almost 70% of nitrogen in the last 30 years. Pig farming has reduced 80% ammonia over the last 30 years. There is no sector that has achieved so much reduction. I therefore find it very strange that the problem of nitrogen created by us would put farmers at the mercy of free trade agreements. I'd be happy to have a cup of coffee on that with you, because you'll have to explain that to me again. I don't see him that way, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u78	That doesn't have to be a cup of coffee. We're just in a debate, so let's just have the debate together. The judge said that we have a nitrogen problem in the Netherlands and that it is very bad with nature. That's because there's too much nitrogen pollution. You always want to compliment the farmers because they have done so much in recent years. On this point, farmers have already done a great deal of nitrogen reduction. But that is far from enough, because there are endless rules that farmers have to comply with. This creates a cost increase effect, which makes them unable to cope with competition with Canada. I therefore agree with Mrs van der Plas that these free trade agreements are giving the Dutch farmers to the free market and to competition with Canada. But that is because we have a nitrogen problem in the Netherlands, which means that they have to take expensive measures. Shouldn't we solve the problem of nitrogen in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u79	Well, you say that because of the nitrogen problem, our nature is in a bad way. I said something about this last week in the General Political Reviews. Is that right? Do we know that exactly? Is that what we're measuring? Two weeks ago I didn't get them with Wouter van Eck, GroenLinkser than Groenlinks, I'd say I visited a food forest. I thought that was very interesting. That food forest is in the middle of an intensive livestock area in Gelderland. A lot of nettles. Nitrogen is the cause of this. I literally asked him. I said, there's a lot of nettles here. It's nitrogen, and that's bad. He said: "It's not bad for me, because 400 native insects depend on the nettle. They are very good for me." So let's have a clear discussion. What exactly is true and what exactly is not true? I mentioned the Korenburgerveen last week. In the middle of an intensive area. That's just where nature is going really well. Why? Because farmers and nature associations are working together on this. You always throw it up: because of nitrogen deposition, our nature is in a bad way. Another example: the Oostvaardersplassen. That's where 22 rare breeding birds have disappeared. 22 rare breeding birds. 500 to 600 hectares of reeds eaten away by geese. All this must be restored by state forestry and by the province of Flevoland. Then a warm summer comes and tens of thousands of fish choke in the warm water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u80	Mrs. Van der Plas...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u81	So, yeah, is nature bad? Is that all because of the farmers? I don't know. Let's just do it once to measure is know. That's also in our election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u82	Then you will. We'll do the interruptions in half. I'm going to see Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u83	A year and a half ago we had this marathon debate on CETA. I was a part of that, too. I remember seeing Mrs. Van der Plas in the public gallery. She probably reported there for her supporters. I must say that I think it has absolute added value that you are now standing down here with a microphone. We are very happy about that as PVV. My question is: can Mrs van der Plas tell us how her supporters have had that debate? They've been spoken of for three days. What are the things that came first for them and which they were most annoyed about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u84	Mrs Van der Plas, I am going to challenge you to give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u85	I can. I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u86	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u87	What did they think was the worst? Firstly, Mrs Kaag told the Chamber for a very long time that it was not at all the case with the production standards and that this was just a splash. Later on, it just turned out to be true. It was about the mode of production: it was a kind of word game. It wasn't about the food. Food coming into our country must meet our standards in terms of food safety. But that wasn't the point at all. It was about the mode of production. That stabbed them like hell. Secondly, it was done as if it were very bad for farmers not to go along with the free trade agreements. It was of course good for dairy farming, the cheese to Canada, or the peppers. Sure. That's what farmers realize. But even dairy farmers, the sector for which it would be good, said on principle: we simply should not want this. We have fair trade and we have fail trade. That failure trade is what happens in the Netherlands to our farmers, while we put millions in fair trade overseas. They even supported the other sectors. That is what I remember most at the time, namely that individual farmers I spoke to said almost all of them: we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u88	Does they also have the idea that the Dutch cabinet is thinking more about the interests of farmers in the countries with which we conclude trade agreements and that it has those interests in mind more than those of our own Dutch farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u89	Yeah, sure. I can be brief about that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u90	Mrs van der Plas rightly points out that exports of agricultural products mainly go to the countries around us. But I wonder whether Mrs Van der Plas realizes that the Brexit has taken place and that a significant proportion of Dutch agricultural exports are going to the United Kingdom. Hopefully, that may be dropped there, also for the BoerBurgerBeweging, in the future. I already foresee an acute problem there with the seed potatoes. This will only become more problematic if we do not make agreements with each other. Is that a good road for the farmer citizen movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u91	We are in principle in favour of this. Of course, we'd like our bacon and our seed potatoes to go to England. The Netherlands likes to export. As I said, our agricultural sector is capable of making very high-quality and food-safe food. If we are to have food coming from England that is produced under lower production standards, or low production methods, we should take a look at that. But I do not assume that after the Brexit, England has suddenly abolished all its environmental rules and animal welfare rules, because they are now suddenly outside Europe. I think they are still quite similar to European standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u92	I note that Mrs van der Plas is, in that sense, open to a trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u93	I have just said in my speech: we are not opposed to trade, but we must do so with equal standards. Our farmers, especially in the Netherlands, but also in Europe, are already at a competitive disadvantage. Dutch farmers already have a competitive disadvantage in Europe. That only gets worse if they also get competitive disadvantages from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u94	Mrs van der Plas was almost angry at the interrupting microphone when I said during my speech that BBB denies the climate crisis. In her own contribution, I actually hear her doing exactly the same thing by coming up with the examples of nettles. Mrs van der Plas said: measuring is knowing, but we have not yet measured at all. Report after report shows that the climate is changing. Report after report shows a drastic decline in biodiversity in the Netherlands and abroad. The growth in nettles is therefore really not a parameter, I say to Mrs van der Plas through the chairman. I would ask Mrs van der Plas to think carefully about this position, because I can only hear her say: we are not denying the climate crisis, but the nitrogen problem does not exist. Well, Mrs van der Plas, the problem of nitrogen is huge and needs to be tackled hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u95	Mr. Hammelburg, if you had a little sense of this matter, you would know that nitrogen has nothing to do with climate at all. It's about greenhouse gases. Nitrogen is not a greenhouse gas. So we can end this discussion very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u96	Mr. Hammelburg. Just a moment, Mrs. Van der Plas, please stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u97	This is the world upside down! Biodiversity, climate, people, nature and the environment: I mentioned it all in my contribution. That's what it was all about. It's all related to biodiversity. Mrs Van der Plas understands that very well, but she now denies it and turns around again. She just did, and she keeps doing it. In doing so, she continues to deny the enormous problems. That is deeply regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u98	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u99	I'm not denying the problems at all. You're linking nitrogen to climate. I say that we are talking about greenhouse gases in terms of climate change, and nitrogen is not a greenhouse gas. That's what I'm saying. I don't know what else to say about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u100	At the point of the importance of "fair trade above fail trade," we find each other. I have one question for Mrs van der Plas, because I have listened to her in other debates and she has consistently stated in motions that she wants to spread common sense, including in this Chamber. Should I point out that common sense is beyond the intelligence of scientists? For both the nitrogen problem and the climate problem, we have a lot of scientific findings that show how bad it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u101	The free trade debate has suddenly turned into the climate and nitrogen debate, I believe. Mr. Van der Lee knows my views on this, too. In the debate two weeks ago, we also had a discussion about this. There are other studies. For example, a recent study has shown that the impact of cows on methane emissions is three to four times lower than originally thought. Except this is gonna be... Mr. Hammelburg needs to cry a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u103	You didn't read the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u104	Please continue, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u105	But that's what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It's all selective looking into investigations. Of course I know the investigations that sound the alarm. Of course I care about the climate. I also take measures at home to make life more sustainable. Of course I do. That is always such a frame: we are denying the climate crisis. That's just not the case at all. We have a different view on a number of points. I have a different opinion than Mr. Hammelburg has. That has nothing to do with me denying it. I don't know where that idea came from. Yes, it sounds nice for your constituents to say that, but it's just not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u106	Instead of reviewing others, it's good to answer a question. My question was actually very simple: does common sense go beyond scientific sense, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u107	Well, common sense and scientific intelligence can go hand in hand, you know. I don't see any difference, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u108	Thank you. I call Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can of course be so beautiful: cooperation between two countries. If one country is good at building windmills and the other country is good at raising dikes, they can work together and lower import rates. Then we can generate energy in a clean way and arm ourselves against the consequences of climate change. But that is often not the approach of free trade agreements, because the driving force behind free trade agreements is often large companies of the existing economy, companies that have grown up with fossil fuels, meat processing, dealing in poisons or pesticides, or dealing in combustion engines. They'd like to get on with that. They would like to make a profit with that for a little longer. In fact, in those trade agreements we see the same clash that we also see nationally: the old economy that wants to go ahead and cash out before the new economy takes over. This is also how farmers get caught up in free trade agreements. We live in a small country, with many people and many more animals. This means that we all cross all kinds of environmental boundaries in the Netherlands. To try to stay in there as well as possible, which is not possible, we have all kinds of rules that work to increase costs for those farmers. In doing so, we praise ourselves from the market if we are subject to a free trade agreement. In other words, with a free trade agreement, the climate is screwed, biodiversity is screwed and the farmer is screwed. You will not be surprised that the Labour Party also finds that workers can be screwed. Because paying a fair salary or giving a fixed contract to an employee is not included in that endless race towards cost reduction. We're driving ourselves crazy. The free trade agreements without all kinds of conditions must therefore be abandoned. As I said at the start of my input, countries can work very well together to tackle climate change and to make people's lives better. So we have to get rid of free trade agreements. We need to go to cooperation agreements between countries, to implement the Paris Agreement, to stop biodiversity loss, to give farmers a fair income in both countries and to ensure good work with good salaries and fixed contracts. Does the Minister agree with me that free trade agreements no longer fit in with a world suffering from climate change and the natural crisis? Does the Minister agree that countries in the world need to work together to resolve these challenges and that countries in the world must make agreements to prevent farmers, workers and the environment from being affected by free market forces? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u110	Thank you very much. There is another interruption for you from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u111	A good plea: get rid of the free trade agreements. Can I make it clear that the Labour Party does not agree with the CETA Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u112	Well, that's what we voted against, indeed. It's in the First Chamber now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u113	Yes, and there's also a Labour Party in the First Chamber. We all know that this is why it is important and that there may be some kind of complaint mechanism being negotiated. Can I at least have your opinion on the CETA Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u114	Mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u115	No, from Mr Thijssen. Very sharp, Mr. Chairman, very sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u116	Yeah, yeah. I'm gonna try to raise you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u117	You're right. Never too old to learn. But if it is up to the Labour Party, the CETA Convention will not come. Can you endorse that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u118	The same answer I just gave: we voted against in the House of Representatives. It's in the First Chamber now. It is now up to the Supreme Court to agree to that or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u119	This is a little too easy. Yes, the PvdA voted against CETA in the Lower House, but she had an excellent opportunity to actually stop CETA. All she had to do was vote in favour of the amendment. The PvdA didn't do that. So the position of the PvdA is not that clear at all. Mr Van Dijk's question was whether or not the PvdA is in favour. In the Lower House, the PvdA was supposedly against, but she didn't do everything she could to make it beach, because she saw the chance to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u120	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u121	Yeah, that's what I said. But she saw her chance to negotiate some more in the First Chamber; an opportunity for the Greenpeaces and the Urgendas of this world to gain better access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u122	I have just mentioned it in my contribution: cooperation between countries, and therefore trade between countries, is not necessarily bad and can be very good for both countries. It can also be good for the people in those countries if trade can be driven. The PvdA is therefore not in principle opposed to cooperation or trade between countries, but there are a number of conditions that need to be met. In the meantime, however, we are living in a world with a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. Treaties should contribute to the resolution of such matters. Then, I think, it's very good that countries work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u123	Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u124	That was far from an approach to an answer to my question. I asked specifically about CETA. Why didn't the PvdA do everything she could in the House of Representatives to make it go away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u125	Because then we chose to vote against CETA. It's in the First Chamber now. He's looking at it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u126	Thank you very much. That concludes the first term on the part of the Chamber. I'm suspending until 9:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u127	Before we start on the first term of government, we have a household announcement. That's the next one. The Members who will be taking the floor in the next debate which would take place this evening, namely the 30-member debate on two UN reports on biodiversity loss, have requested that this debate should not take place now, but that a majority debate on the forthcoming UN summit on biodiversity should be requested shortly. That is probably what Mrs Teunissen will do as the applicant for the debate. This means that we are now deciding to remove that debate from the agenda today. Yeah? Is that enough for everyone? Good. Having said that, I will reopen the debate on the actions of European farmers' organisations against free trade agreements. The first term of office has been. I call the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is my first debate in plenary. It is my great pleasure and great honour to appear in your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Trade and agriculture. Trade is really of great importance to the Netherlands. I would remind you that one third of our gross national product comes from international trade. This actually applies to trade in agricultural products: about EUR 100 billion in exports; we are the second largest exporter of agricultural products in the world. Trade is therefore essential for the Dutch economy. And yes, there is sometimes a lot of criticism of trade agreements. But even without these treaties, there is trade. I would like to remind you of that for a while. In fact, 67% of our trade and EU trade are conducted under the general rules of the WTO. That means that they are outside the trade agreements that we are talking about today. From the outset, I would also like to shed light on the misunderstanding that trade agreements would have a negative impact. On the contrary, trade agreements increase our prosperity. But what is more: agreements can contribute to sustainability and to combating climate change. That is a very important change in trade policy. Previously, it was only about liberalisation, lowering tariffs and dismantling non-tariff barriers to trade, now it is also about defending agreements on climate, sustainability, child labour and other standards. So I think this is a very important turnaround. I understand very well that for some people this change does not go fast enough. This applies, among other things, to Mrs Teunissen's Party for Animals. By the way, let me say in a nutshell that I am very happy to debate with her again today, because we have often faced each other in the city council of The Hague. For some, this change is not fast enough, but it is clear that very important steps are being taken at the moment to make our trade policy more modern. I also think that the European Commission's fifteen-point plan has given this very clear attention and also shows that trade agreements need to be changed. The Netherlands has also made an important contribution to this in a discussion document drawn up jointly with France. We want to ensure that trade is increasingly helping to achieve sustainability and climate change goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u129	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u130	Can I finish this point? In this context, I would also like to mention the fact that we hope that the European Commission will soon come forward with a proposal on international corporate social responsibility. This can, in a broader context, ensure that all those points I mentioned, including labour rights standards, i.e. ILO conventions and the various protocols, are included in those trade agreements. This can also be added if the Commission comes forward with good proposals on international corporate social responsibility. I hope that this proposal will be on the table very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u131	Mrs Teunissen, now in the city council of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u132	I am pleased to see Mr De Bruijn back here. I would like to welcome him on behalf of the Animal Party here. We are honored that this is the first debate of the outgoing minister to take part in. This is a debate on free trade agreements; that is not just a subject. My question concerns the change that Mr De Bruijn indicated, the change in the area of free trade. He actually says: first, it was totally aimed at liberalisation and now it is also about setting sustainability conditions and animal welfare standards. Then my question is: is there a change of heart here, or is it a sham? Is it not true that free trade agreements have become increasingly unpopular in recent years? The question was then raised in Europe as well: how can we continue free trade agreements? Then all sorts of passages on sustainability and on human rights came into those treaties. Why should this necessarily be dealt with in the free trade agreements? Isn't that something we've been making good diplomatic agreements about for years? The Paris climate agreement is an excellent example. Do you really have to settle that through free trade agreements? Or should you just say that we should keep trade within the boundaries of climate, animal welfare and human rights, and we should make diplomatic agreements on these matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u133	Well, the point is: there are, of course, a lot of agreements, but it turns out that in those areas too, the agreements are not always enforceable. I would like to admit to Mrs Teunissen that it is a change that is taking place at the moment and that we are not quite there yet, but trade agreements can be an instrument to ensure that these agreements on sustainability and climate can be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u134	The word "can" is important. You say "can be taken." I wonder. The trade agreements currently in force, such as Mercosur and CETA, are said by the advocates of these trade agreements to be an improvement; they contain sustainability paragraphs. But those sustainability paragraphs are in no way enforceable. For example, there is no sustainability standard in CETA. Does the Minister recognise that this is not the case with the free trade agreements we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u135	First of all, I would like to say that the agreements contained in CETA are indeed legally binding. That's a big step forward. I recognise that there are no sanctions in the dispute resolution mechanism provided for in that Treaty. That's what we're talking about. You also know that there is now a complaints mechanism within the European Union. That too may not go far enough for some, but that is the first very important step towards something that will hopefully be approved by the Animal Party. But you can't change the world at once. I think what is happening at the moment is really an acceleration in thinking about what trade agreements should look like in the future. Mrs Teunissen, for example, refers to Mercosur. I cannot deny that Mercosur is still a bit of an old age. Negotiations started 20 years ago. Then it is difficult to adapt it during the ride to a new situation. But certainly when we talk about the conclusion of new trade agreements, the kind of issues that Mrs Teunissen raised will undoubtedly be high on the agenda. This can also be seen in the European Commission's documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u136	I see that you still want to speak, Mrs Teunissen. You know I actually want the interruptions in half. So you can still interrupt this, but you can also wait a little longer for the Minister's speech. Mr Van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u137	Anyone who listens carefully to the minister hears that he acknowledges that there is actually an old way of negotiating, with old standards, and a new one. That's where you want to go. That's interesting. But Mercosur and, in my view, CETA have been made with these old standards. Does the Minister recognise that these treaties are therefore obsolete and should at least be renegotiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u138	CETA doesn't. At Mercosur, we will still have to see it. Mrs Van Weerdenburg is right: we will have to wait and see what the final text of the agreement is, and then we will give our opinion on it. However, as far as CETA is concerned, I certainly do not agree with that. That is a very important treaty. I think we'll have to do everything we can to get that approved. By the way, this has been approved here in the House of Representatives. I thought we were here in the Lower House and not in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u139	You've got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u140	Thank you. I'll still be sharp at 9:10 in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u141	You'll soon see how this place works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u142	The Minister also knows that opinions on the CETA Convention are very different. For example, the ICS, that mechanism by which companies can sue states, is extremely controversial and is simply in CETA. As far as my party's concerned, that should have come out. Then we are talking about Mercosur. This House has tabled a clear motion on this: Mercosur must leave the table. Does the Minister acknowledge that, and does he agree that the treaty is therefore over and over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u143	I acknowledge that that motion exists. I wouldn't dream of seeing that any different. But that doesn't mean that we have to get rid of that treaty right now, when I don't even know it yet. It's not formally there yet. Let's just wait and see. Then we can determine our position in the light of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u145	Mr. Chairman. I think I have given sufficient consideration to Mrs Teunissen's points. Then I come to Mr Van der Lee's contribution. He spoke, among other things, of a balancing framework. I think it is indeed important that there is. At the moment, the European Commission is already having all the effects examined. So there is a mechanism called "sustainability impact assessment." The Dutch government is committed to improving such impact assessments. They're working on it. I therefore believe that the European Commission will also come up with an adjustment very soon. I look forward to it, but I think that too is an important development. Then Mr Van der Lee spoke about promoting trade between the European Union and Africa. I think that is a very important point. There are, of course, several instruments at the disposal of the European Union, in particular the APS, the Generalised System of Preferences, and among them the Everything But Arms programme. So there's a lot going on there. I also find it interesting to have a much better relationship with Africa in the European Union, but that will certainly be for another cabinet. I believe that the French Presidency will also put this high on the agenda. One of its components will also have to be to improve that position of fair trade vis-à-vis Africa. Again, that is something we cannot achieve in the short term, but I certainly agree that this should be high on the agenda. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u146	One moment. Mr Van der Lee has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u147	Thank you to the Minister for the answer and the movement in it. As far as the balancing framework is concerned, I think it is important to look at the imvo aspects in addition to sustainability and the fight against climate change. I have a motion for that, too. I'll come back to that later. I would also like to ask you the following question, given the white paper made by the Netherlands with France and the results of the elections in Germany which are now taking place, and thus the chance of a traffic light coalition in Germany. What could that possibly mean for the European debate on making trade agreements fairer and greener?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u148	I think that's a very interesting question, but that's a little speculation. The ampelkoalition is a possibility. There's a key position for the Greens. So perhaps Mr Van der Lee is even better informed than I am. It does not seem to me the right place and the right time to speculate about what is going to happen there. I have heard that at least it is intended that there will be a new federal government before Christmas. We'll see. At that point, we will have to look at the significance of this, including for this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u149	I understand this answer in itself. I think the Germans are probably faster than we are, given the difficult progress here. But can I rephrase the question as follows? As soon as there is a new government in Germany, will the Netherlands take the initiative to reach out quickly on this issue and to see if we can promote trade agreements to become fairer, greener and more social, and that this will also be assessed in a broader European balancing framework for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u150	Mr Van der Lee can be assured that as soon as there is a new German Federal Government and I may still be in office, I will be the first to contact my counterpart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u151	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u152	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Van Dijk's contribution. I think I have already answered his comments and questions on CETA. I think that left nothing to be desired. So I turn to the following question: does the Minister recognise that treaties are very controversial and can he reflect on them? I think I did. At the beginning of my speech I also said that I see very clearly that this is an issue and that it is in full swing. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a rather long series of questions from Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. I hope I'll answer them all, because there were a lot of them and they were quick. So I hope I don't miss one. What is the Minister's view on trade in the future? That is a very broad question that we can discuss for a very long time, but let me reiterate that I consider the commitment to sustainability, the environment and working conditions, so that they can enter into trade agreements, really very important. However, this applies not only to trade agreements, but also within the framework of the World Trade Organisation. As I said at the beginning of my speech, 67% of trade takes place under the WTO regime. It is therefore very important that these issues should also be discussed within the framework of the WTO. I will also endeavour to do so at the forthcoming WTO ministerial meeting. That will not be easy, but I will certainly do my best on behalf of the cabinet, and I will also try to ensure that we work towards a level playing field in the WTO than the current playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u153	An interruption by Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u154	Mr. Chairman. I am fully aware of the fact that I am further broadening the issue with the following. Where we talked about agriculture and trade agreements, we already went to climate, environment, man, animal and nature. As part of the Minister's last comment, I would like to add something to that, namely human rights. If we start talking to the World Trade Organisation and work towards improvement, then it is also about the commitment to human rights. That is something we often do not discuss, not even in this context. It is very often about agriculture alone, while there are so many other aspects to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u155	Sure. I fully agree with Mr Hammelburg. He knows that in many of the European Union's trade treaties, human rights are already a so-called "essential" element. But once again, in the context of the WTO too, I think it is very important that we address this issue. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Koekkoek's second question. Can the Minister give an initial indication of the revision of the 15-point action plan? There is a lot of discussion about this. The European Commission has also asked for this via the Internet. All input is coming in as we speak. I will, of course, inform the Chamber as soon as the Commission has gathered and processed all this. We're gonna have to be patient for that. But that's a lot of editing. We will have to wait and see what further documents the European Commission has to offer. Mrs Koekkoek asked about the experience with the recently appointed Chief Trade Enforcement Officer. She asked me if it has any added value. To be quite honest, I think it is a little too early to give a concrete answer, because it has only just been set up. The person started quite recently. However, I do believe that it is a very important step that the European Commission has taken, because it is this person who can ensure that the agreements made in the framework of trade agreements are actually respected. Of course, it was very often the case that we wrote things down in treaties, but then it stayed with paper. That is what I heard Mr Van Dijk say earlier in the debate. In this context, this Enforcement Officer plays a very important role. But again, I think it is a little early to express an appreciation of this, because the best man has only just begun. Mrs Koekkoek's next question was about how I look at a more global level playing field. I thought that I said in my earlier speech that I think it is very important that we look at this in the WTO context. I should also like to mention that this is not an easy issue. For example, in large trading partners such as China, trade is increasingly distorted by commercial practices that encourage unfair international trade. In the context of the WTO, we will therefore have to do what is necessary to bring that level playing field back into line. Although China is part of the WTO, it is not part of all the WTO agreements that have been made. I believe that we really must strive for China to join all the other agreements that have been concluded within the framework of the WTO. This will further strengthen that level playing field. Finally, I come to Mrs Koekkoek's question on how I look at international corporate social responsibility. I think this is an extremely important subject. I have already said in my speech that I also urge the Commission to come forward with a proposal for a directive as soon as possible. I certainly prefer that this should be regulated at European level and not at national level, especially in order to maintain that level playing field within the European Union's internal market. I also have a meeting with Commissioner Reynders of the European Commission shortly to encourage him to submit this proposal at least before the end of the year. Mr. Chairman. That leaves me with one more question, I think. It was about a subject that has nothing to do with agriculture... No, sorry, I forget Mr Thijssen. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u156	Just a moment, before we get there, there is an interruption by Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u157	Yeah, about that Reynders plan. That would come before the summer and then it would come in September. That month's almost over. Then it would come in October and now I hear the Minister say that he hopes it will be the end of the year. My great fear is that it will be at the end of 2023. Does the Minister have any insight into exactly what the problems are about planning and when it really comes to us? 'Cause it's taking so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u158	I agree with Mr Hammelburg. The European Commission said earlier that it would come before the end of October, and I want to stick with that. It is, of course, a very complex issue. I will also be sending a letter to your Chamber shortly. I hope that we will soon have a debate on this subject on the basis of that letter. But what exactly is the background to the delay in the European Union will have to be reflected in my conversation with Commissioner Reynders. I believe that this has everything to do with the scope of the proposal for a directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u159	I understand from the clerk that that debate is scheduled for 27 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u160	October 27th. I look forward to it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u161	Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u162	Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. One question remains open: the question about the possibilities for adding sustainability standards for agricultural products, i.e. agricultural products. And I heard Minister also just mention that we need to reform through the WTO. My experience is that it is very complicated to combine agricultural sustainability standards through the WTO. My question to the Minister is therefore what the expectations are for the next conference. And after that, you can also see that as a second interruption. I ask what the plan B is. What would be the route if very ambitious agreements could not be reached in Geneva in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u163	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to stay a little bit guilty of the answer to this. I do not expect much at this point in Geneva. And then maybe I'm just saying too much. What plan B is, we're really gonna have to take a look at it after that conference. I should also discuss this within the cabinet, with Mr van Landbouw. I know that this is a somewhat unsatisfactory answer, but unfortunately I cannot make it any more at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u164	Yes. Then Mr Klink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u165	What does the Minister expect at the ministerial conference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u166	That's a very good question. Very soon we will also have a preparation for this under the Italian Presidency of the G20. I hope, and the cabinet will make a real effort to do so, that at least an agreement can be reached at that conference on fisheries subsidies. My colleague Schouten knows all about that. That is extremely difficult. There are some countries that set very high standards; let me put it this way. I have a little bit of hope that we'll get out, but it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u167	That is what I heard; to do something about covid and about the organisation of the WTO. It is also said that it would be nice if something on agriculture could succeed at the forthcoming ministerial conference. Do you have any thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u168	That's not what's at the top of the list. I have also discussed this with the new Director-General of the WTO, Mrs Ngozi, with whom I have another discussion in Geneva the day after tomorrow, precisely to prepare this ministerial. I support her in trying to concentrate on what is most likely to be successful. It believes that this is in the area of fisheries subsidies, but again, that too will be difficult to deal with, and also to agree an agenda on WTO reform and modernisation. If we can just agree that there is a working group for this and that this work is being set in motion, I think that is a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u169	I thought you were almost at the end of your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u170	In fact, I have already replied to Mr Thijssen. He asked whether these free trade agreements fit into a world of climate change and nature crisis. I have tried to show that I think so, because trade agreements can be an instrument for having a crowbar with agreements in these areas in order to better comply with them. My final point, which has nothing to do with agriculture, is a question by Mr Van Dijk on the Energy Charter. I feel a little uncomfortable here, because it is to a large extent the responsibility of the Minister of EZK. Look, this, too, is a treaty that dates back to the 1990s, which looks like this because it was concluded in the 1990s. We also had every interest in it, because Eastern European countries are part of that treaty, in order to protect investments in those countries which were quite difficult at the time. I think that was absolutely a legitimate objective in the 1990s. Now it is true, as Mr Van Dijk said, that Uniper and RWE have called on the dispute settlement mechanism under that treaty. I would like to point out that, even without that treaty, these companies can simply go to the normal courts. In this respect, the Energy Charter makes no difference. They can always appeal to the Dutch court in respect of any decision taken by the Dutch Government. His specific question was whether the Netherlands should now withdraw from this treaty. I don't think that would be wise. You get out, you don't talk anymore. I do agree with him that there should be a debate, and it is being held, on the modernisation of that treaty. I would put it in that context much sooner than we are saying: well, we're getting out. Then we'll be out of it and then we won't have any influence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u171	Very kind of the Minister to answer my question when it doesn't even respect his area, thank you for that. He does say something interesting: these companies can also go to the ordinary judge. That's the whole point now. That is what the opponents of CETA, TTIP and all those other treaties always say: why should separate private courts be set up for companies to resolve their disputes in the backrooms? Why can't they go to the ordinary judge? I am therefore very pleased with the Minister's statement that these companies can do the same. That makes the motivation, the reason for these treaties, of course less urgent, because they can go to the ordinary judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u172	I don't think there was a question in it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u173	Yeah, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u174	Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u175	Mr Van Dijk can't be caught for one hole, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u176	No, I guessed that. These issues are on the move, as I said earlier in my speech. You can't change everything immediately. I would therefore like to say, as wise advice, a little patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u177	Mr. Van der Lee at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u178	I am also concerned about this subject. It may indeed not be the prime responsibility of this minister. I would also like to say to the Acts that there are seven legal cases in progress by these companies, five of which have been filed in the Netherlands. Two have been submitted on the basis of the charter in Europe. The European Court has already held that European legislation is above charter. It is therefore quite likely that these companies will not win this case at European level. But my question is actually another one. The Minister makes an argument that I recognize from the 1990s. Because of that argument, the charter was once initiated by Ruud Lubbers. But what are the reasons why you would need such a charter? To protect what type of investment would it be now, in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u179	I think this is beyond my competence. I hope that this can be discussed in another debate and that my colleague from EZK will have the appropriate answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u180	I understand that with Mr Van der Lee. You came to the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u181	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u182	Thank you for that. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food after the chair has been taken over. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Members for the questions they have asked. It is special to merge the Trade Committee with the Committee on Agriculture. That always gives rise to a different kind of debate. It is also nice that I can stand here for the first time with Mr De Bruijn and that it has been a privilege that he has actually made a kind of maiden speech in plenary. Normally, you shouldn't be interrupted if you're here as a Member of Parliament. They should also introduce this for directors, with retroactive effect. But he's already answered a lot of questions in great detail. I have a single question that has been put to me. Firstly, Mrs Teunissen's question, namely how circular agriculture relates to free trade agreements, also in relation to the standards that we want to raise. Circulation farming and trade agreements are not mutually exclusive. I must say that I was impressed by Mr Van der Lee's speech, which indicated how trade agreements can have a positive impact and that, in general terms, you are actually speaking too genericly about them when you say: they are not good. There are dilemmas; I do not deny that. It is precisely when it comes to agriculture that this is because we have high standards in Europe. I say to Mrs van der Plas that our farmers must produce at high standards. There's a good reason for that. I think that Mrs Teunissen's party is the first party to always ask for these high standards, for example in relation to animal welfare, but also in relation to plant protection products, for example. It is precisely in trade agreements that you want to make agreements to ensure that these standards become more uniform, as we know them in the European market. That is also the commitment of the Netherlands to these trade agreements, and that is also the commitment of Europe. In fact, this has been very explicit in the debate on the common agricultural policy. Hopefully that discussion will be concluded at some point; in Europe we have already done so, but in the Netherlands that has yet to be done. Just at Farm to Fork and the Green Deal that has been set up in Europe, you want a more level playing field with regard to agriculture, because it requires the necessary from our own farmers and growers. That is why it has been agreed within Europe... I must also give credit to the European Parliament and the Council, who have urged the Commission to investigate the legal feasibility of applying EU health and environmental standards to imported products. Concrete initiatives should also be identified to ensure greater consistency in their application, including in line with WTO rules, in order to ensure a fairer playing field. The Commission has recently indicated that the examination requested by the Council and Parliament will be completed in June next year. On that basis, I think we can continue the discussion. That way, on the one hand, we can guarantee the high standards in Europe and, on the other hand, ensure that good agreements are made in the trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u184	I see Mrs Teunissen for an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u185	I would like to return to the point made by the Minister that free trade agreements are compatible with circular agriculture. Let me give you an example. The Netherlands is one of the countries in the world that imports a lot of soya, including for animal feed. Free trade agreements make it possible to import more soya. It is true that, with free trade agreements, we can all set product standards, but not production standards, because that is regulated by the WTO. In other words, we do not in any way have any influence through these free trade agreements on the conditions in which things are produced, such as our animal feed. Does the Minister therefore recognise that it is not really true that circular agriculture can be reconciled with free trade agreements if we cannot impose conditions on the way in which products are produced in the countries of origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u186	The animal feed is a good example. On the contrary, the Netherlands has made a great effort, for example, to combat deforestation. This is one of the examples in which we see that the production of animal feed can lead to adverse effects. Just for the context: there are no trade agreements at all on parts now and that feed is now heading this way. It's already coming from Brazil, South America and so on. So let us take away the misunderstanding that if there is no trade agreement, there is no trade either. That is not true, because it is against WTO standards. It is precisely then that very often you cannot make demands on the products that are coming this way. The Netherlands is particularly committed to a point such as deforestation. We also have the Amsterdam Declaration, with which all kinds of parties commit themselves to sustainable trade and to standards, in order to ensure that the market is not flooded with all kinds of products that are not required or agreed upon, and at the same time we can do something about it. I think we can come to an agreement then. We must be vigilant in this respect, and I will give it to Mrs Teunissen, but I will return it to her that it is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u187	Yeah, that business's already there. Can I at least find the Minister on the point that free trade agreements are not going to contribute to combating deforestation, because we simply cannot change production standards? We cannot make demands on the conditions under which products are produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u188	That's pre-emptive. It is precisely the Netherlands that, when we come to such agreements, we are committed to making agreements to prevent deforestation. You'll have an influence on what's going on in those countries. Once again, I am not saying that there is never any tension, but it is precisely here that we could take further steps to prevent deforestation than with the standards currently being applied at the WTO, which are all moving in our direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u189	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u190	Those were Mrs Teunissen's questions. Mr Klink, who had a number of very specific questions about seed potatoes among others, but also a little more; I have to get the answers. His first question was about proven technological innovations in trading blocks with which Europe has an agreement. Can we use these techniques here, too? I heard between his words that it is about the application of CRISPR-Cas, which is indeed being applied in a number of countries. The Netherlands has said, both in the coalition agreement and in my commitment over the past few years, that we must allow the options of CRISPR-Cas within the kind of biocidal compound that I consider to be very important in Europe and that there should be a review of the outdated GMO legislation in Europe. We have now taken an important step in the Commission's investigation. Later this year, the Commission will also launch a policy path. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are currently no indications that products produced with CRISPR-Cas have actually been placed on the EU market. At the same time, it is also difficult to establish, I say immediately to Mr Klink. The aim of the Netherlands is therefore precisely to ensure that this type of processing technique can have real added value, including in terms of sustainability, for the tasks we have. We in Europe are also in favour of revising this legislation. I therefore agree with Mr Klink. He also explicitly asks about the export of potato seed potatoes to the UK. He asked whether there would be cooperation with other Member States, such as Ireland. What's going on with the request to DEFRA? Have other bilateral agreements been reached, for example between the UK and other Member States within Europe? There are no other ways than through the Commission to submit a derogation application to DEFRA. So it is not that all this can be done around DEFRA. However, we are very much looking at the possibilities of increasing with other Member States in this respect, because it is indeed affecting our sector, but some other Member States are also affected by this. I am not aware of any agreements that the UK would have or deal with other countries about seedlings. We are actively considering, in consultation with the European Commission, the possibilities of ensuring that good agreements are made on this issue. But that goes through the Commission. That's the route we agreed on, and I think that's the right route. I think those were Mr Klink's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u191	Thank you for your answers. It is good to hear that you are committed to making a commitment to this, through the Commission, of course. What are the other Member States who are concerned about this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u192	I have to do that out of my head, but I think Ireland is indeed one of those countries. I'm afraid I'm not going to be fully into that tonight. I need to get that out of my head right now, and it's specific information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u193	Maybe in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u194	I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u195	The porte of my question is: at least try to pull together as much as possible and don't do it alone, because together we'll move on. If that's what you want to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u196	I am absolutely committed to that. I want to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u197	Thank you. Mr. Van der Lee? You're gonna have to wait. That's a good thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u198	Mr Van Dijk asked me to reflect on the treaties. I agree with what my colleague has said about the treaties. I have already mentioned this in the introduction to Mrs Teunissen's questions. Then I come to Mrs van der Plas' questions. They dealt specifically with the production standards and the differences that exist in them. I have just said it in reply to Mrs Teunissen's questions: there is sometimes tension. At the same time, there are also good reasons to apply standards in Europe. As Mrs van der Plas said, 70% of our exports go to countries within Europe, but Europe is one market, so it is not the case that within Europe these standards are different either. We have agreed on this and the Member States must comply with it. It is true that some sectors are affected by trade agreements. It often benefits other sectors of agriculture. I should also like to mention the fruit and vegetable sector. These companies produce against high standards, including the rules for plant protection products, which are sometimes stricter than in other parts of the world. But they provide a high quality and therefore benefit greatly from these conventions for export. But it also applies, for example, to cheese. Cheese is one of our big export products, which the whole world enjoys. They therefore benefit from such agreements. So it is also really different between the sectors of agriculture. But, as I said, we are also discussing the level playing field in Europe. That is the place where we have to do that, because that is where the agreements on trade agreements are made. With this I think I have answered the questions of the various Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u199	Thank you very much. Then it's Mr. Van der Lee's turn to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u200	I would have liked to ask this question in the first place, but I was a little too quick to get through my speaking time. I don't often have the chance to talk to the Minister of LNV. We often talk about farmers, retailers and producers of consumer products in the context of the trade agreements. You can put pressure on them, but actually about 70% of the food we consume consists of just a few products: maize, grain, soya and rice. There are five trading houses in the world, often not even listed on the stock market. Family companies such as Cargill, Bunge and ADM determine world prices to a large extent. I think there's an oligopoly. I wonder if the Dutch government ever thinks about how to deal with these giants. Unilever and Nestlé dare not even stand up to these powerful companies, let alone other players in the food chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u201	I come back to the subject of the BuHa-OS colleague, because of course this is also partly about market power. Market power lies with the European Commission. The European Commission has a Commissioner for this. It looks at whether there is undue market power and whether there is indeed influence on prices and such things. It's not quite my metier, let me be honest. Mr De Bruijn undoubtedly knows a lot more about this than I do. I think, on the contrary, that sometimes the European Commission puts its teeth in companies where market power is becoming too great. There are examples of that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u202	That's right, but that's never in the food sector. I don't remember any examples. This matter is at the intersection of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, the Minister of LNV, but certainly also the Minister of EZK. The structure of competition and enforcement are detached from political control. We have nothing to say about it in the Dutch Parliament. The European Parliament has nothing to say. I believe that the polarisation that also exists in the Netherlands around trade agreements can be partly resolved if we look at these commercial houses, also from the point of view of competition. They ruin prices and earning models throughout the food chain. If the Dutch cabinet were to make more work of this, differences in the Chamber could perhaps be bridged. So my advice to the cabinet is: think about it carefully with each other. In a letter to Parliament, please also indicate how you would like to promote fair competition and not oligopoly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u203	As I said, sustainable food systems are now really a topic on the agenda of the European Commission. That is also because, among other things, we discussed this in the European Council, more generally. I have to say that this has not focused specifically on the commercial houses, but the Commission has been asked to look at the sustainable food systems. These are truly European issues. I would like to leave it at that, because our agricultural policy too is to a large extent European policy. I told you, it's one market. As far as market power is concerned, it is also a European competence that they regularly use there. So I would not like to send a letter on this as the Netherlands, because it is really a European subject. Let me say that I will follow the debate on sustainable food systems in Europe very closely. I believe that this will also be the case more widely in the cabinet, because it is not just my dossier. I admit that we are alert when there is market power or concern about it, and that we may be able to discuss it. But I would like to leave it at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u204	Thank you very much. I'll take a look at the colleagues. I assume there is still a need for a second term. That's the case. The speaking time is one minute, one third of the speaking time in the first period. Before we do that, I'm going to suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u205	The next item is the second term of office. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u206	Mr. Chairman. Nothing's as bad as a shindig. As long as the primary goal of trade agreements is not fair trade but standardisation, you will maintain a race to the bottom. The farmers, among others, are the victims of this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current free trade agreements lead to substantial additional imports of cheap agricultural products from countries elsewhere;]] [[Whereas lowering production standards leads to a significant increase in unfair competition for Dutch farmers;]] [[Whereas liberalisation of trade in agricultural products leads to deforestation through free trade agreements and also to the detriment of small farmers and indigenous peoples elsewhere;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to lower import tariffs, increase quotas and other liberalisation of agricultural products that can also be produced in the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u207	Mrs Teunissen hasn't seen my message, but I'd like to sign with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u208	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u209	Okay, let's write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u210	That's very good, because then she wouldn't be on her phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u211	I am very pleased, because Mrs van der Plas has previously also signed a motion from us to this effect. I'm glad she's back under it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u212	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Minister De Bruijn, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, on his maiden speech in this Chamber. There are many issues that I would like to debate for a long time, but I will not do so tonight. I'm gonna stick with the motion I'm gonna file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop a future-proof European balancing framework allowing for a comparable assessment of the extent to which these conventions promote free and fair trade and ensure an adequate level of corporate social responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u214	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u215	I call Mr Klink of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u216	Also on my behalf, of course, welcome to Minister De Bruijn, who is here for the first time today. I am very pleased with the reaction of Minister Schouten on seed potatoes to the United Kingdom. It is committed to this and wants to work together with the other countries towards the Commission. I would like to have the undertaking that you will inform the Chamber before the turn of the year about the state of affairs, preferably much earlier, if that is possible. Finally. I do not have any motions I would like to make if this commitment is further implemented. It was a debate on agriculture and trade tonight. After my father died, I already reported this once before. For years, for fifteen years, I had a dairy farm with my mother. I just loved that we were members of a cooperative and that there was an organisation that made sure that our products could be ignored anywhere in the world. I really saw the added value that you could be a farmer in the Netherlands and that there was a party that could sell the product anywhere in the world. So it exists: farmers who really like trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u217	Thank you. I call Mr Hammelburg. He's gonna give it up. So does Mrs Van Weerdenburg, if I understand correctly. Then I come to Mr Van Dijk, who never renounces the word when he gets the chance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u218	No, Mr President, the discussion on trade agreements has not yet been completed; that keeps coming back. That's right. The Minister said interesting things about modernising these treaties. I still believe that he implicitly acknowledges that the present treaties should at least be read very well. For do they comply with the current standards, standards and values that this minister claims to defend? I think that's worth an interesting debate. I have a motion on that ECT. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) enables companies to sue the government if they consider their investments to be at risk;]] [[whereas the German energy companies RWE and Uniper have filed billions of claims against the Dutch government for alleged losses;]] [[noting that the criticism of the ECT has increased due to these practices;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Teunissen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just discussed that a number of things are interrelated, not only with regard to trade agreements but also with regard to multilateral aspects. Think of the IMVO legislation. That needs to be brought together. At the same time, certain timelines sometimes do not run at the same level. At European, national and multilateral level, we have been mixed up quite a few times. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the non-paper of the Netherlands and France on trade, socio-economic impacts and sustainable development, the Dutch Government concludes that trade agreements need strong sustainability chapters;]] [[noting that the Dutch government also concludes in this non-paper that the EU should improve the effective implementation of sustainability chapters;]] [[Considering that the European Commission committed itself to a review of the 15-point Action Plan in 2021 to improve the integration and enforceability of trade and sustainability chapters into free trade agreements;]] [[noting that DG Trade already held a Civil Society Dialogue on this subject on 19 July;]] [[whereas the Commission will launch consultations on this in the short term;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the Dutch commitment to the revision of the 15-point Action Plan by means of a letter of inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u220	Thank you. Thank you to the Ministers for the answers and a special welcome, of course, to the Minister for Foreign Trade. Does BBB deny the climate crisis? Several Members here tonight accused me and BBB of denying the climate crisis. I think that is a serious allegation, which has not even been substantiated. Just because I have a different opinion on how to tackle the climate crisis does not mean that I deny that there is climate change. BBB also sees the consequences of climate change. Farmers have to deal with that every day. We are not closing our eyes to that. But we also want other scientific reports to be involved in the climate debate. That doesn't mean we should ignore the IPCC. That calling here is a false frame. I actually had a lot, but... What I want to say is: what good is it for the rest of the world in terms of climate if more cows, pigs and chickens are kept elsewhere in the world? That is the question we are asking here. China, for example, has completely removed all environmental requirements for small pig farms, with the aim of accelerating pigmeat production. If I call that, do I deny climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u221	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u222	I'm rounding up. I'm asked if common sense goes beyond science. That's the same question I'm asking back. I do not think I am the one who denies scientific reports, but others are in the Chamber. I'm taking all the scientific research into account. Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Hammelburg only take their pleasing investigations and put their fingers in the ears when they hear another sound. Then who's the denier here? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u223	Thank you. Mr Thijssen has the floor. He's gonna give it up. I'll take a look at the rulers. I believe they can react immediately. Have you received the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u224	I've received them. Four of them, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u225	Well, well, well. Yeah, that's right. Four of them. I call the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u226	Mr President, thank you. First of all, the motion in part No. 74, tabled by Mrs Teunissen. I would advise against that motion. I do not agree with the considerations contained in it. For example, the first rule states that free trade agreements lead to substantial additional imports of cheap agricultural products. The reports that have been published on this subject show that it is very bad with those extra imports. So, as far as I'm concerned, that word "fors" isn't correct. But I do not agree with the'reduction of standards' either. We debated this earlier this evening. That the production standards differ, I recognize, but they are not lowered. So I can't take care of that either. But my main objection is, of course, in the operative part. I do not agree that we should not agree to lowering import tariffs or extending quotas on agricultural products that we would be able to produce here, because in principle we can produce virtually anything here. So we would no longer be able to make a tariff reduction on any product. I find that absolutely undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u227	Motion in part No. 74 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u228	Yeah, the motion to part No. 74, I'm not suggesting. If I move to part no. Mr Van der Lee. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Lee on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u229	I see Mr Van der Lee nodding. Motion in part No. 75 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u230	Motion in part No. 76: It will not surprise you that I advise against it. I have already said that I do not think it is wise to withdraw from the Energy Charter, because then we will no longer participate in the discussion and place ourselves outside the ring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u231	The motion in part No. 76 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u232	Sure. Finally, the motion in part No. 77 by Mrs Koekkoek. I thought I'd gone into that in my first term. No problem at all, I'm happy to admit it. Of course judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u233	The motion in part No. 77 has judgment, Chamber. Thank you. Let me look at the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u234	One more question was asked to me by Mr Klink. He asked if the Chamber could be informed about the progress of the seed potatoes. In the meantime, I have asked which Member States are playing this more. We know that Germany, Poland and France all have interests. I will contact my colleagues from those Member States in the Gremia where I appear, such as the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, to see if we can get together. This is really a competence of the Commission, but we can work together towards the Commission. That's what I'm telling you. If there is more to be said, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u235	Thank you very much. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-28-tweedekamer-16.u236	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday 5 October. I thank the two rulers. I hope that Mr De Bruijn is not so bad. He's still a diplomat. He has to say, of course, that he was having a hard time. I would particularly like to thank those Members who were kind enough to work together; you can see that this is always possible here. I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mrs Teunissen on their initiative to spare each other, but also the staff, not to have another debate. There were other reasons for this. But it is good to always bear that in mind; thank you for that. I would like to thank Members for the debate. I would like to thank our fellow Members in every possible form who have supported us, the people in the gallery and elsewhere who have followed this debate. I wish you all good night and good home. I'm closing this day's meeting.
