ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative Erken Fibromyalgia, Section 35826. This citizens' initiative is the initiative of Mrs Natalie Kramer, which she started in 2013. So she deserves our respect for her perseverance. Today she is present in the plenary room of the House of Representatives. Ms Kramer offered the initiative accompanied by more than 56,000 signatures to the House of Representatives in October 2020. After the initiative was declared admissible, the Committee on Health, Well-being and Sport proposed that it be called for a plenary debate. Well, today's the day. It is the eighteenth plenary debate on a citizens' initiative since the introduction of the instrument, and the third in this Chamber period. So it remains a special moment and a special instrument. I would like to welcome Mrs Kramer and her mother today. Also a warm welcome to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers who follow the debate at home. Mrs Kramer will present the citizens' initiative from the outset. I now ask the guardian of the Chamber to escort Mrs Kramer to the chair. Before I give you the floor, Mrs Kramer, I note that it is the agreement that you should not be interrupted during your speech. So, as I say to the Members of Parliament, no questions should be asked or comments made. You have about five minutes to explain yourself, Mrs Kramer. I would now like to give you the floor. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	Good morning, chairman, members of the House of Representatives, and minister. The Netherlands has approximately 340,000 fibromyalgia patients, but probably this number is much higher. People with pain in their muscles and connective tissue do not always get the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. In addition to muscle and connective tissue pain, there are many more symptoms that may be associated with fibromyalgia. The cause of fibromyalgia is unknown and there is no treatment method. Research is being carried out on the cause and treatment of fibromyalgia, but this is small-scale and there is no cooperation between investigating parties. When the diagnosis of fibromyalgia is diagnosed by a doctor, it is quickly said: "You have fibromyalgia. There is no known cause and no treatment for this. There's nothing I can do for you. You'd better live with it. You don't have to come again." The pain makes normal functioning in society very difficult. To relieve pain, fibromyalgia patients, for example, use physiotherapy, medication, or follow a rehabilitation pathway. Treatments or aids are usually covered by supplementary health insurance, often requiring their own contribution. This is unpayable for a lot of people. Eventually fibromyalgia patients end up in a vicious circle. They are no longer able to work full-time because of the physical complaints and therefore have a limited income. The low income means that they will no longer be able to pay for their health care, which means that health complaints will increase and work will eventually be impossible at all. It is often dependent on a benefit. The UWV looks, among other things, at the labour force and the last income earned. Health complaints are not taken into account or hardly taken into account. The UWV is often suspicious and reluctant when providing benefits because the condition fibromyalgia is not scientifically detectable. In the case of a clearly identifiable disease, the UWV provides for example a WIA benefit. Employers also often do not understand their employees with the condition fibromyalgia, or do not employ someone with fibromyalgia in advance. After all, in physical work, it is only a question of whether the fibromyalgia patient can sustain it. Here too, the UWV can do more than what is happening at the moment. When requesting facilities from the Wmo, you will look at personal characteristics and your personal situation. The costs and conditions vary from one municipality to another. This makes it possible that you are eligible for a certain provision in one municipality, and not in the other. What I want to achieve with this citizens' initiative 'Recognize Phybromyalgia' is the following. Hospitals, healthcare institutions and doctors need to work more closely together to identify the cause of phybromyalgia, so that a good treatment method can be found. These research results should be shared with all assisting organisations. The doctor and/or healthcare professional determines which treatment is best for the phybromyalgia patient and not the health insurance provider. The patient should be eligible for the reimbursement of the medicine or treatment prescribed by the doctor. The Wmo, the UWV and other bodies must be discharged, which reduces the administrative burden and prevents the phybromyalgia patient from repeating what is wrong with him or her at every instance. There are large differences between the conditions that municipalities apply within the Wmo. This should be the same for each municipality. More clarity needs to be provided as to which authorities you can request facilities or tools from. As a guideline, the UWV will have to use the phybromyalgia patient's medical record when providing a benefit or finding suitable work for the person concerned. It should also provide more information to employers on the possibilities of adopting people with disabilities. You have received from me a report in which I have explained these points in detail. In addition to my report, I sent you a document yesterday containing the experiences of phybromyalgia patients. This shows that phybromyalgia patients fall between shore and ship under current legislation. I hope I have been able to convince you, the government, with my citizens' initiative 'Recognize Phybromyalgia', also of the fact that the disease must be included on the list of chronic diseases, so that phybromyalgia patients in the Netherlands will have a better future. Together we stand strong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mrs Kramer, for your clear statement. Very well done! Then suddenly you're in the Lower House. Compliments for your story, I believe, on behalf of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'll ask the chamberlain, pardon the chamberlain, the chamberlain is asking our magazine to accompany you again. Then we will start the debate in a moment, where I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA for her first term. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kramer, in particular for having done this with a sick body and also for her perseverance. She has lasted all these years and has produced such a nice detailed report. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. I also start with a quote: "You have fibromyalgia. There's no cause or treatment for this. There's nothing I can do for you. You'd better live with it. You don't have to come again." That's what Mrs Kramer herself said. This is coming as a hard message, especially for someone so young. Thank you again for your initiative. Mrs Kramer is not alone in dealing with this, but she has been determined to fight for recognition on behalf of the other patients. We understand that the cause of fibromyalgia is not well known. Doctors and scientists have different and sometimes contradictory opinions about this. Can the Minister state what the medical status is now? What is the role of the Healthcare Institute? Are there any elements of the disease that are not yet being investigated, but which will be included in a research programme in the coming years, for example? I understand that since May 2019 the World Health Organisation has included the disease in the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems. Phybromyalgia is therefore seen or recognised by the WHO as a chronic pain. WHO members agreed that ICD-11, including chronic pain, should be implemented by 1 January 2022. If the ICD changes that, the Netherlands is apparently not obliged to adapt it to its own laws or regulations and the compensation system. Is this true? Can the Minister explain exactly what this is about? What exactly is the situation as of 1 January 2022? How does the recognition of this disease by the WHO relate to our own Health Insurance Act and in particular to our basic package? Mr. Chairman. Moving is healthy and we all have to do much more. But we understand that moving is especially good for fibromyalgia patients and that some patients indicate that they benefit from physiotherapy. The point of view of the Healthcare Institute is that it has not been scientifically proven that physical therapy really helps. But we see more often that some treatments are effective in certain patients and not in others. A few years ago, we had a discussion here about Fampyra, a medicine. In conversation with the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut), we have previously asked from the VWS committee whether there can be more variation in research methods. What is the state of this and what does this mean for patients with fibromyalgia? Finally, in general about physiotherapy and chronic diseases. We had a letter from the Minister just before the summer recess on the state of physiotherapy. In conclusion, I quote: "The current transition process will not, however, lead to an opinion from the Healthcare Institute in order to achieve a more open claim for physiology and practice therapy. The Healthcare Institute therefore advises me to stop the implementation of the current plan of approach." I conclude from this that the Minister still wants to come to an open claim. Let me get this straight. I am pleased that this plan of action has stopped, given my previous motion, adopted in 2019, which has not been sufficiently implemented as far as I am concerned. The route was long-winded, rigid and went by subject, such as window legs. But what exactly are we going to do after this conclusion? Because the Minister then states that a decision is up to a new cabinet. But we don't want to waste any time either. Sometimes we have to look differently. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to start by thanking Natalie Kramer for her commitment and for this citizens' initiative, because it requires a great deal of perseverance to be working on this since 2013 and I think it also takes guts to come out so openly about your own medical history. Thank you for that, anyway. Mr. Chairman. It's horrible when you're in a lot of pain and pain anyway. And it's totally frustrating that the cause of your condition, in this case fibromyalgia, is still unknown. In the disease there are no abnormalities in your muscles or connective tissue, and otherwise there is nothing in your body that can explain the condition. Fibromyalgia is therefore not detectable in studies. That is why a diagnosis is often difficult to make. I understand very well that someone then does not feel understood and has the idea of being left to fate. And when it's said that it's between your ears, that it's a mental disorder, I get it very well that you get angry. 'Cause you're not feeling well and you're in pain. Unfortunately, the medical world has not yet figured out the real cause of fibromyalgia. Mr. Chairman. The Citizens' Initiative addresses a wide range of issues, including a response from the Minister to the Citizens' Initiative, in particular issues relating to care, the Social Support Act and the UWV, on which there are a number of key issues in the Citizens' Initiative. The citizens' initiative also makes a number of concrete proposals. Collaboration of hospitals and other care institutions to find the cause together, reimbursement of medical treatment prescribed by the doctor, abolition of the list of chronic diseases and increased control of agencies such as Wmo, UWV and health insurance to prevent arbitrariness. I would also like a response from the Minister, because it seems to have a domino effect. The disease is not recognized and recognized and then you run into a wall of incomprehension again. Mr. Chairman. We have to be honest, too. Ultimately, it should not be the case that politics determines which treatments are or are not effective and should therefore be reimbursed. For this we have experts and advisors, such as the Health Council and the Healthcare Institute. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know what the current state of science is with regard to fibromyalgia, both nationally and internationally. Mrs Van den Berg has already asked for this. I would also like to know what the WTO ruling means. That ultimately determines whether your treatment will be reimbursed. I understand that the Healthcare Institute looked at fibromyalgia in 2006. Is the Healthcare Institute or the Health Council going to look at that again after more than ten years? The world doesn't stand still. Can the Minister also indicate what is and is not being compensated for patients with fibromyalgia? Clarity for the patient is of course also important. Is there any insight into what physical therapy can mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with Mrs De Vries that additional research is needed, that the state of science needs to be examined and that we need to look at how patients' lives can be improved. For the SP, it is very important who is going to do such an investigation. If we can agree with the VVD, I would like the Health Council to conduct such an investigation. I ask Mrs De Vries whether she agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	For me, it's not necessarily the goal that the Health Council is going to do that. That could also be the Healthcare Institute or any other agency. I think it's important that it happens. Of course, we have already invested a great deal in the various agencies. I also do not want us to fail other programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	However, it is very crucial who is going to do that research. The Health Council has existed since 1903, I believe, to do exactly this: to visualise the state of science, nationally and internationally; not only by looking at what needs to be reimbursed from the package, but in the broadest sense, so also how patients' lives can be improved. Those are really the mission and task of the Health Council. The Healthcare Institute has another task in the way we've set things up. That looks at what should and should not be reimbursed from the package. It looks much more at the financial side of fees. If we asked the Healthcare Institute to look again at fibromyalgia and what should be compensated, you already know that this will be a financial analysis and not an overview of the state of science. That is why I ask the VVD once again whether it would not be wise to ask for advice from the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	I believe that I think it is important that research into the state of science should take place, both internationally and nationally. I would like it if we could not do that in the long term. I can't judge whether the Health Council could do that in the short term. Maybe there are other bodies that could do that, but I think we agree on the goal. Then we have to talk about the instrument: who would do the research?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. That goes a little further on the interruption debate with Mr Hijink of the SP. More information and knowledge about this type of condition is important and can help people. We have of course had a discussion earlier about ME/CVS, i.e. fatigue syndrome. A research agenda for this was established in December 2020. What research programmes are there at all for the chronic diseases for which there is no obvious cause, in a broad sense but also more specifically for fibromyalgia? For example, what subsidies are available at ZonMw for this type of research? Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned earlier, the medical experts are the first to look at fibromyalgia. Further research is important for this. Finally, I would like to thank Natalie Kramer for her commitment. If it weren't for her, we wouldn't be here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, like my colleagues in the Chamber, I would like to thank Mrs Kramer for her frank story and the initiative she has taken to collect no less than 56,762 signatures. Thank you also for being here with her mother and having included us in this Chamber in her story. I have an incredible respect for that. Thank you. Almost a year after the initiative was submitted, we are today discussing the recognition of fibromyalgia. I am deeply impressed by the story and deeply touched by her quest and the setbacks she faced. The story of the initiator shows that recognition of fibromyalgia means raising awareness in different areas. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this citizens' initiative in this Chamber today as a first step. As far as I am concerned, a citizens' initiative is at the heart of our democracy: Dutch people who are united to raise a subject that we are simply not speaking enough about here in the Chamber. With the estimated 340,000 people with fibromyalgia, it is therefore right for D66 to talk about this today. I sympathize with fibromyalgia patients when they only get a diagnosis when a lot of other diseases are excluded. Those are long stretches of uncertainty and with a lot of frustrations. I admire Mrs Kramer's perseverance very much. She's tried a lot of different treatments. Unfortunately, there was no treatment that managed to remove all complaints for a long time. I find that hard to accept. There is a diagnosis, but then someone gets the message: learn to live with it. That is why I hope that there will be a future perspective for these patients. What can contribute to this is scientific research, so that puzzle pieces can fall together and effective treatments can be targeted. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what the current state of science is. I heard my colleagues Van den Berg and De Vries ask for this too. Are there any tests going on? Is one eagerly seeking? Mr. Chairman. Because there is no good scientific basis and because it has not yet shown effective treatment, I understand that doctors are in the hair with their hands in it and that a body like the Healthcare Institute says that the treatments cannot just get into the basic package. The initiator stated during her visit that the Healthcare Institute is now working to see if the reimbursement of physiotherapy can be changed and that this may have an impact on fibromyalgia patients. That is why I ask the Minister what the status of this is. What can the Minister do to speed this up? Recognition of fibromyalgia means that not only in the Chamber, but also in municipalities and executives as the UWV becomes more known about this condition. Here too, the initiator shows her perseverance. She managed to work despite her illness. I admire that very much. She knows how to find her way, but she wants to make it easier and more accessible for others. D66 sees a role for the Minister to discuss this with his colleague from Social Affairs and Employment and, for example, the VNG. How does it become more widely known about the health problems in these patients, so that it becomes easier to apply for a WMO facility and so that the UWV recognises and involves the diagnosis in the approval of a patient? I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees a role for himself. Is a hand-out one of the possibilities? Finally, thank you once again to Mrs Kramer, and also to her mother, for sharing her personal story with us here today. I would also like to thank her for the wonderful initiative she has taken in recent years and for her commitment to this large group of patients as an expert in experience. A lot of time and energy has been invested in that. This deserves more than our appreciation, namely recognition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. Argwaan was the word that lingered on me in response to Mrs Kramer's impressive introductory remarks. That also stuck with me when I was lying the experience stories of fellow friends about what it means to yourself and your environment, about what it means to your child when you get into the poverty trap, about what it means to have no energy at all, about what it means to have to constantly prove that you're not stupid or crazy or lazy but that you're really wrong, about what it means if you don't get recognised, about what it means to have to fight for eight years to be heard here in this house and that you do it anyway because you know that if you don't, nothing changes and happens. That deserves great respect and compliments. I would like to endorse what has been said. Mr. Chairman. That is precisely why I would like action to be taken now. The WHO has not for nothing already committed itself to recognition. It is not for nothing that it is important that I announce to the Health Council that Mr Hijink of the SP will table a motion on this matter, which I signed and which will carry out that investigation. I think it's important that it gets on the chronic list so that all the problems that someone now has with the UWV, the Wmo, an employer or the rehabilitation program that they want to follow can simply be overcome. My simple question to the Minister is, therefore, that he knows me as brief and concise as to what the government's reaction to this is. Can we expect to step on that? And in what time can we expect these steps? If you have to fight for your right for eight years, it is up to us to ensure that you can get your right and that you are recognized in your suffering and pain. Mr. Chairman. Again, it is not only about the patients themselves, about their pain and their discomfort, but also about the fact that it affects their entire environment. Think of fathers or husbands who might also come home with a burn-out because they have to take care of a lot. Think also of children who are given a role because they have to be part caregiver for their mother. Poverty falls and we often do not recognise the consequences very well. That's what we've seen in other similar situations. I would like to wholeheartedly support Mrs Kramer's plea, but also that of all those other people who have spoken and shared their stories with us. I believe that we can take the first steps in this House today, and I would be happy to look at the cabinet in order to make that possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard Natalie on Radio 1 yesterday, in Met het Oog op Morgen. Then she said she took the week off because she is discussing this citizens' initiative here today. I think that's what a disease like fibromyalgia does to you. In my opinion, it also draws the perseverance and the fighting spirit that Natalie has, for almost eight years now, to make this debateable here and to get the recognition that this group of patients deserves. I think it is important to stress today that Natalie is here alone, but speaks on behalf of a group of many tens of thousands of people. It is therefore also important that we discuss this here today and that solutions be found. It's been a long time. Natalie has had a lot of contact with my predecessors in the past, Renske Leijten and Henk van Gerven. We have always felt that we should get this on the agenda, also because it is so important for the group of people who have not felt recognized for years. That starts in high school, as Natalie said on the radio and writes in the pieces. I'm talking about the feeling of isolation, because you're not understood by the people in your own environment, but also not by the people in care, who have to organize the best care for you. So it is very important that we do that here today. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that the World Health Organisation officially recognized the disease as a chronic disease in 1992. Nevertheless, 30 years later, we are standing here today to get that recognition off the ground in the Netherlands as well. That is so important, because without recognition, it is not the right help. Without recognition, not the right care. Without recognition permanent hassle with municipalities to get care and support. Permanent hassle with the UWV to keep your income up and get the right benefit if you can't get around. The symptoms are real, but the cause of the disease is still unclear. Natalie said it herself somewhere: when the diagnosis comes, you're glad you finally know what it is, but at the same time you also find that there is no proper treatment yet. That is, of course, a relief on the one hand, because you know what it is, but you also know that you can't get any further when it comes to care. Mr. Chairman. That is why we also support the idea that there is an investigation by the Health Council, not by the Healthcare Institute, into the state of science about what is known about fibromyalgia and what the impact of the disease is on people's lives. What are the treatment options? What about the diagnosis and course of the disease? That's very important. We know that this has also happened in the past with ME/CVs, chronic fatigue syndrome. The Health Council has also investigated this and issued an opinion on it. That has really meant something for that group of patients, because it has recognised that this is indeed a serious disease, a chronic disease that needs treatment, which means that we need to make good on it. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my second point: I have to get on with it a little bit, namely the compensation that people often do not get for necessary care, for example when it comes to physiotherapy. I think Natalie wrote in her play that we should get rid of that list of chronic diseases. I agree with her. The need for care must simply be compensated. But while we still have that list, I would say: let us do our best to get fibromyalgia on that list, so that people who need physical therapy very much do not have to pay a huge bill for years. 'Cause what happens if that works? Then the first twenty treatments must be reimbursed, either on their own or from the supplementary insurance, but then you will be assured of the physiotherapy that is so important for this group of patients. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to support this. I would also like to ask him if he is prepared to look very seriously at that research that we believe should be carried out by the Health Council. If there's too little capacity, we'll expand that capacity. I really think that's a bullshit argument. I understand the Health Council has been very busy, especially in the corona crisis. We've asked for a lot of advice from them, so has the Minister. But that should not be a reason to let something that has been dragging through mud for so long. I would like to conclude by thanking Natalie once again for all her work over the past eight years and also here today in the House of Representatives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr Hijink. I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by expressing my sincere admiration for Mrs Kramer's patience, perseverance and perseverance to get this on the agenda. My sincere compliments and many thanks for that. Mr. Chairman. In the report that the initiator sent us, we all read her personal story. Her setbacks and her struggle with agencies. Also in my own environment I know people with fibromyalgia. I asked them what it means to live with this. They said: "It means more or less tired every day. Pain. Stiff, painful joints. Not able to sleep properly, so also not well equipped. It comes and it goes. There's no rope to tie to it. It leads to concentration problems at work and it is very difficult to find a balance. There is often little understanding, because people don't see anything on the outside, but physically you are sometimes a wreck. And because it is not officially recognized and many complaints can be classified under a different heading, it is a long, difficult journey towards recognition." Mr. Chairman. What an incredibly profound impact on daily life that must be. Once again, I would like to thank the initiator, because I believe that her initiative and her perseverance have put on the map how important it is that we recognise fibromyalgia. With recognition of fibromyalgia it becomes clear that it is not an imaginary disease. With recognition, we hope that there will also be more scope for investigations, directives, treatment and reimbursement. It is estimated that between 2% and 5% of the European population suffers from fibromyalgia. For the Netherlands this means at least 240,000 people. Those are significant numbers. Can the Minister indicate exactly how many patients we are dealing with in our country? Mr. Chairman. I am surprised that I read on the website of the UWV that the World Health Organisation recognises fibromyalgia as a chronic disease, but that the Dutch government does not take over this. How did this happen? Could the Minister please explain that? Is that also why there is no directive on the assessment of the disease by the insurance doctor? Mr. Chairman. Since the initiativer started to put on the map the recognition of fibromyalgia in 2013, fortunately things have happened. Science hasn't stood still. For example, ReumaNederland has launched a guide for fibromyalgia patients in which recognition is central and calls for multidisciplinary treatment in special centres. Experts at UMC Maastricht say that tailor-made treatment by a multidisciplinary team is the best approach to fibromyalgia and the UMC Leiden is launching a study on pain relief this year. Mr. Chairman. That is, of course, beautiful, encouraging, but it seems to me somewhat fragmented. How can we make the most of all the patients from all this knowledge and from all this research? Should such initiatives not be brought together, I ask the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to launch a study into the added value of a centre of expertise where new insights on research, treatment and guidance for patients come together? Mr. Chairman. Researchers at Ghent University even think they found a cause for pain syndrome. Very important, because that would show that the disease is not between the ears but has a demonstrable neurological cause. Can the Minister indicate how the recognition and treatment of fibromyalgia is handled abroad? What can we learn from that in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The objectives of the initiator extend from the medical domain to the social domain. From health insurers to employers. From medicines and devices to their reimbursement. From the municipalities to the national government. But it all starts with the recognition that fibromyalgia is a chronic disease, because it hopefully opens up scope for research, guidelines, treatment, reimbursement and most importantly of all: the prospect of a better life for patients. That's what it's all about. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister what possibilities he sees for contributing to this endeavour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kramer. I'm glad she's here today with us and thank you for her clear story. I would like to congratulate her on her initiative and on the way she wrote it. Based on her own story, but also on research she has done and clear examples, I was completely included in what fibromyalgia is and what it does in people's lives. I would like to give the tip to the Minister to write down all the chamber letters and chamber pieces in such a clear way, because I think it is a very nice example of clear language, of how you can really bring people into your story and make it clear what the problems are. Mr. Chairman. Although it was a nice piece to read, it is of course a very painful story. The incomprehension comes out very well on the basis of all these personal examples in which we see the consequences not only for health, but also for income, for social activities, for friends and for sport. I was struck by a few sentences in Mrs Kramer's piece in which she said that it is unpredictable, that sometimes at the last minute you have to cancel activities to go to bed early and that some friends resented her. That touched me, because it shows that it is really a misunderstood condition that is not only unclear in the medical world, but also really does something for your social life, for sports. I also read the sentence that Mrs Kramer now fortunately has two friends who understand her. I wish we all had friends like that. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have a few questions for the Minister. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister how there is still so much uncertainty about fibromyalgia. What can be done in more research? Can this have anything to do with the fact that, as I read, you mainly encounter fibromyalgia in women and that in the past cases involving women were often less included in medical research? Could that be one of the reasons why there's less known about it? What can be done to clarify fibromyalgia and, of course, the treatment? Mr. Chairman. I read in the note that sport is very important. I am working with colleagues from D66 and the SP on an initiative paper, in which we want to make it clear that sports and exercise should be self-evident for everyone, including those with physical disabilities and disabilities. I would therefore like to make a commitment that we will also include fibromyalgia in our follow-up, but I would also like to ask the Minister if he can discuss with his colleague what can be done to ensure that more sports associations take into account and pay attention to people who are suffering from such a misunderstood physical condition. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister what more can be done to clarify costs and fees. In Mrs Kramer's note, we read about her own search for what works and about the very high costs she has to make. I would like to see much more clarity for her and for all the other people about where you can go, what treatments work and who pays for those costs. I would like there to be less confusion between municipalities and just national directives. I would also like to ask the Minister whether more can be done with employers to improve understanding of this type of misunderstood illness. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with an appeal to all of us, because you can solve things that are misunderstood in laws and regulations. I would like us all to show a little more understanding for people who are tired at times, who sometimes have to leave. Let us make sure that we are there for people like Mrs Kramer and for other people who are suffering from chronic fatigue or other complaints. Let's make sure we're ready for each other that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs about half an hour to prepare himself. I'll suspend the meeting and then we'll move on to the first term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative 'Recognize Fibromyalgia'. The next item is the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying how I intend to answer the questions later. Before that, I would like to make a few comments. The first cube of "Can I still have that word?" The state of science is affected. A lot of questions have been asked about that, how to get a better picture of the latest state of science. The second is the care that is already available and also what we could take steps to make care even more accessible. This concerns, in particular, Zvw-zorg. The third block are some other questions that are about the Wmo and the UWV. But let me start with a few introductory sentences. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Kramer for her very sensitive speech, but also to congratulate her. All Members of Parliament have done the same, and I think that is more than justified. If you have the perseverance to start a citizens' initiative from 2013, to collect more than 50,000 signatures and to go through all those steps over and over again to make your point and then finally here in the plenary room of the Second Chamber, the most important place in the most important conference room in the whole of the Netherlands, that's really impressive. I really want to compliment you on that. Hearing your story and reading it, I can imagine how frustrating it must be that you have to fight so hard for it, that you feel like your story isn't being understood. Converting the frustration and grief that entails in action is really very impressive. I really hope that you will feel that this debate is an important step towards the recognition that you rightly ask for. I hope that's how you hear the debate. So thank you very much. What's so complicated about that disease, except for all the intricacies it brings when you have it? That is particularly, as several have said, because it is actually a collective term of symptoms such as pain, stiffness and fatigue. But with regard to what causes that pain, it is very difficult to detect the physiological deviation that leads to that pain. If you have a hernia, that's the reason for that pain. Well, that's not nice either, but at least you'll know how it happened. This helps in the way in which an effective treatment can then be sought. Because not only about the cause of the symptoms of fibromyalgia is much unclear, but also about the effectiveness of the treatment. This treatment is symptomatic: sometimes it does work and sometimes it doesn't work or less. There's a lot of things being tried, but that's a search. If there is still a great deal of uncertainty about causes and effective treatment, it does not only make this disease easy to adapt to the way we have organised our care, but also makes it a very difficult and difficult search for recognition. I therefore think it is very good that your speech and your initiative have reached the national Chamber. If it weren't for you, we wouldn't have talked about it today. That's really something to think about. The first block is about the state of science. I have already said something about this, namely that the cause of fibromyalgia is actually very much unknown. Research has certainly been carried out, both nationally and internationally, but this research has not yielded very much. In addition, a lot of research has been done into all kinds of symptomatic treatment. The results are variable. Some treatments seem to be effective, but sometimes it is very individually determined whether treatments are effective. One of the studies currently under way is the LUMC study on the effectiveness of medicinal cannabis treatment and its added value for the treatment of neuropathic pain. That has already been referred to by the VVD or D66; I don't know anymore. That research is not just focused on fibromyalgia, among other things. This research is conducted through ZonMw and is partly funded by the government. In addition, there is research from psychology into the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy. This research is also taking place in the Netherlands. The VVD asks: what is the state of it, national and international? By the way, the CDA, D66 and the SP asked for that too. I just said something about that. How is that funded? In the Netherlands, the university medical centres can carry out research using the availability contribution of academic hospitals. In addition, there are several research programmes funded through ZonMw. They can also be used for fibromyalgia research. This concerns, among other things, the proper use of medicines. For example, knowledge is generated about the pharmacological properties of medicinal cannabis. That's what happens in the research in Leiden. But there are also other ZonMw research programmes that can be connected to. Do we know enough at this time? That is a bit of the question that lies above this debate. I don't think so. Could we learn more by asking the Health Council, as the suggestion was, what is the latest state of science? Mrs Van den Berg mentioned the Healthcare Institute. It could be both. If you ask me, I'm going to ask that question to the Health Council and the Health Institute, but I'm going to make a few comments. Firstly, the Health Council programme is very full. I do not think you want an answer from the Health Council until 2024, so give me a chance to see if the Health Council will actually have time for that in the near future. The second way to portray a defined latest state of science is indeed through the Healthcare Institute. But of course Mr Hijink is right that the Healthcare Institute will look through the lens of the Health Insurance Act, namely: would there be a claim from the latest state of science that is related to treatment, for example physical therapy? I'll come up with that in the next block. I'm gonna go find the best institute. I hear your preference for the Health Council. He's done that before for chronic fatigue syndrome, so that's no illogical choice at all. I understand that, but if it takes too long, it will not help in the context of this debate. Then you should see how it is. The Zorginstituut is indeed a useful institute to collect the latest state of science. Mrs Maeijer adds: can this be done with an international view? That is by definition the case when the Health Council is asked to present the latest state of science. Diseases never stop at borders, so by definition it happens with an international perspective. If you're asking me to spoon that up, you're asking me about it. I am just a simple Minister of Health, so we should put that question to the Health Council if we choose the Health Council. Let me see if that will provide sufficient clarity in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	I want to avoid confusion. The Minister referred to the fact that the research can be done at the Healthcare Institute, but I signed Mr. Hijink's motion with the request for this investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	Without waiting for my answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	Without waiting for your answers. We want the investigation done by the Health Council. Then you can see which treatments are or are not effective and are allowed under the Health Insurance Act. Then I mentioned the example of Fampyra, because we as a committee have previously found that the standard study method is not always appropriate if you have a smaller group of patients. It may be that physiotherapy is effective in one patient group with fibromyalgia and not in the other. That is why we have asked whether the Healthcare Institute can be a little more flexible and also look at other research methods for the recognition of care in the package. So that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	You have indeed expressed this in this way. If I have given a different impression, then of course your reading counts. It's about your input. I agree with you, too. We must use the institutes for what they are intended for. So I can imagine you're looking at the Health Council. My only hesitation would be that it might take some time. You don't want to. So give me the opportunity to consult with the Health Council on how much time they need. Package-related questions are in any case about the Healthcare Institute, because the Health Council does not make any statements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	Can the Minister also indicate how long it will take for him to be clear how long the investigation will take?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	I'll be able to let you know in a couple of weeks. That's fine. We're just having a conversation with the Health Council about whether they'd be willing to conduct that investigation. Once again, I dare not promise in advance that it will produce a lot of new insights. And as far as package-related questions are concerned, it is indeed up to the Healthcare Institute. Questions were then asked about the International Classification of Diseases of the WHO. It has been asked why the adaptation of the WHO list has no significance for the fees in the Netherlands. I am going to use that question to take a very smooth step towards a next block, namely: what are we paying for and what are we not paying for? The Health Insurance Act is designed in such a way that there is not so much a very long list of possible diseases that are eligible for reimbursement as there are so-called open claims. Then what are these open claims? That is, for example, a general practitioner's care. So what's the claim? General medical care is care that general practitioners perform. Then you're still no wiser, but that's all the concern people come to the GP and the GP says: yes, I can do meaningful work in this. This also applies to medical-specialist treatments, although there is a need for a reference from that gatekeeper, the general practitioner. This general practitioner will say, for example, that in this case you could benefit from treatment by a rheumatologist who carries out the treatment under the chronic pain treatment directive. That rheumatologist's gonna work on that. That is just concern that a rheumatologist is trying to offer. He must make a diagnosis and establish the treatment, and then that is eligible care. It's unrelated to a list of diseases. The way in which the fees are put together in the Netherlands, therefore, works simply with open claims and not on the basis of a list of diseases. I will also show you later how, fortunately, this means that a large part of the care is actually eligible for reimbursement. We still have an issue, which is especially related to physical therapy. I'll explain that as well. But back to the question about the WHO. For the Netherlands, the fact that the WHO uses a classification list is essentially a statistical objective. As a result, CBSs and RIVMs know how to deliver the data to the WHO. It is therefore not a WHO requirement to allow diseases to be reimbursed. Apart from the fact that the Dutch system does not work like this, that is not the purpose of the WHO list either. Is the Minister prepared to start a centre of expertise? I would think that the LUMC already has a centre to which people with severe fibromyalgia can be referred. I also think it is very useful to look at the LUMC in particular and see how research programmes can be linked to it, so that we learn more and more from it. Then I want to go to those fees. Actually, I had made the bridge a little bit. First of all, I would like to say that the fact that we know a system of open claims has the advantage that where a doctor sees that he can contribute, that he can help, that doctor is also reimbursed for that work. This does not mean that everything is eligible for reimbursement, because the Health Insurance Act says: the Health Care Institute must establish the basic package. At least, your Chamber will eventually do so, but the Healthcare Institute advises on this on the basis of very clear legal criteria. These concern in particular the effectiveness of treatment and the necessity. In the case of necessity, the need for compensation shall be considered in particular. So you can say for example: an aspirin is absolutely effective. Is it necessary to compensate for that? Well, no, because people can all just walk to the store for an aspirin. In the end, you can also label effective things as not necessary to compensate. In general, however, the effectiveness, the determination of the effectiveness of treatment, is the decisive factor. This means that part of the care is currently eligible for reimbursement, and not part of the care. You can also read and hear this in the description of the initiator and in the other stories. What part of the care is already eligible for reimbursement? First of all, that is, of course, just the general practitioner's care. General practitioner care is simply universally accessible care. If you have complaints, whatever they are caused by, it doesn't matter at all if you walk in to the GP and the GP can help you. The general practitioner is, of course, paid for this. The cause doesn't need to be known. The effectiveness of the general practitioner care is also not im Frage at that time, because the GP is the gatekeeper. The GP needs to see what's going on with you, and you may need to refer if you need to. So the general practitioner's gonna be reimbursed anyway. What has also been an important development that is significant for patients with fibromyalgia is the development of the standard of care for chronic pain. This is particularly aimed at the fight against symptoms. That's important. The recommendations contained in these standards of care are still not sufficiently applied in practice. For this, a Task Force chronic pain is being set up, which will consist of representatives of PAiN, the foundation pain patients and healthcare insurers Netherlands, and which is facilitated by the Healthcare Institute. This task force is intended to effectively hunt down and monitor the implementation agenda that belongs to the healthcare standard. As a consequence, field parties are engaged in developing a clinical approach to chronic pain guidance for healthcare providers. This guide describes how the different healthcare providers should act in daily practice and also cooperate with each other. That is an important point in the citizens' initiative. The guide is a step-by-step guide to how something should be done. This is important, because it also makes it clear to healthcare professionals what the different treatment options would be. In short, this at least compensates for the general practitioner's care, as well as the medical-specialist treatment, where people are referred by the general practitioner to the medical specialist; that is often the rheumatologist. So that's just a claim to be compensated under the Health Insurance Act. D66 asks why the treatment of fibromyalgia cannot be included in the basic package. I have actually just given the answer to that. It is not that the treatment is not in the basic package. But it is true that, let me now explain that there is some friction with what is or is not eligible for compensation. That is precisely what Mrs Van den Berg and others have been saying for a very long time and very consistently, namely the reimbursement of physical therapy. Several Members have asked for this. I think that the route that Mr Van Ark, former colleague Van Ark, has used and also communicated to your Chamber, is also an answer to the questions that lie in this debate. Back to how the Health Insurance Act works: if there is an effective treatment to be established, the system of the Health Insurance Act applies in such a way that it is added or can be added to the basic package. But what's the point with physical therapy at all? That effectiveness is not so easy to establish. In one case, it really doesn't work like the other. The way in which we deal with physiotherapy under the Health Insurance Act has thus led to discussion much more often and much longer. A route was initially used for this purpose. That actually didn't lead to the desired outcome. That's why Van Ark stopped it. I think that was right. This was also done on the advice of the Healthcare Institute. A new trajectory was then designed. There are a number of elements in that. The first element is: couldn't you also look at physical therapy the way you look at the general practitioners? So: could there be a claim of first-line physio and practice therapy in the basic insurance, given the principles of appropriate care? In this way you could actually relieve some of the general practitioner care. That would be conceivable. I am not going to anticipate the results, but that would be conceivable. This is one of the questions that lies in that trajectory. Maybe I should explain this to you. It is about dealing with complaints, for example about instructions regarding the attitude and movement, and strengthening patient self-management. That is what a general practitioner actually does and that is also a type of care that allows you to be eligible for reimbursement. Wouldn't it be conceivable from that point of view that you are also looking at compensation for physical therapy from the basic package, in one way or another? Another element is: couldn't you also reason in such a way that physiotherapy could prevent or delay some of the patients and some of the complaints, which would make it a cost-effective intervention? In my opinion, the Chamber-wide idea was that this might be the case. I think that goes for a lot of physiotherapists you're talking to. But then, of course, the condition that is also simply stated in the Health Insurance Act, namely that you must be able to determine whether there is effective treatment. The question of effectiveness must therefore be able to be answered. The third element is that chronic list. At least, which is often called "the chronic list," perhaps also because we have been carrying it under our arm for so long, but that is actually the list of chronic diseases. It is often the subject of conversation and deserves to be reviewed, because the observation is that that list is not always consistent and also not always up-to-date, because there are still several questions at the moment. That is a third element that we would like to take up with the Healthcare Institute and the field. I would like to ask the Healthcare Institute to pay explicit attention to fibromyalgia in that list. So these are actually three elements. The first is the more generalistic, low-threshold physiotherapy, exercise therapy. Is a claim necessary and possible on the basis of basic insurance if you look at dealing with pain complaints? Two. Is there some part of the physiotherapy for part of the treatment that one might say is to prevent more radical medical-specialist care? The first is therefore for the stool of the general practitioner and the second is for the stool of medical-specialist care. The third could be that chronic list, so that list of chronic diseases. For these three elements, for example, Mr Van Ark informed the Chamber before the summer, I ask the Healthcare Institute to come up with a plan of action with the field, the physiotherapists and patient organisations. I would like to share this approach with you this autumn. I know there's a lot of work on that right now. I would like to share this with you in the autumn. This would be a possible solution to the issues raised by the citizens' initiative in the context of the reimbursement of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	It's no surprise that the SP wants to get rid of the way physiotherapy is now being compensated. We want it to be included in the basic package so that everyone who needs it can have it. Until then, we think it wise to include fibromyalgia on that chronic list, even though we really want to get rid of that list. I understand that this is a bit of a strange message, but we think that it is very important for the result in the short term for the group of patients we are talking about today. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to support this and whether he agrees with the SP that the outcome, to the left or right, should be that compensation is organised for that group of chronic patients who are in daily pain and who are helped with physical therapy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	I'll start with your last question. I will start with the answer to your first question, but that answer is not in line with what Mr Hijink is asking. But I'll start with the last question. Look, colleague Van Ark has designed a new trajectory with the Healthcare Institute for a reason. The old route, the Zorginstituut and colleague Van Ark, and in my opinion also the Chamber, did not lead to a way of financing or compensating physiotherapy that matches what physiotherapists themselves put forward and what your Chamber has put forward several times. That was actually very much considered from the question of what was the evidence of the effectiveness of the treatment. There's too much discussion about that. And if there is too much discussion about something, it is simply not possible, in accordance with the criteria of the Health Insurance Act, to include that type of treatment for reimbursement or to include it in the basic package. But you still want something with it, because people just obviously benefit from physical therapy. So the gross mode just housing in the supplementary insurance, doesn't feel right. In other words, you would like to be more eligible for reimbursement without having to comply with the criteria laid down, I think, by the Health Insurance Act, i.e. effectiveness and necessity. A new course was then launched, in particular looking at which part of the physiotherapy you might see, for example, as a general practitioner's care, for the stool of the general practitioners and actually for instruction to the patient in order to deal better with his complaints, and what part of the physiotherapy you might see for the stool of medical-specialist care, where it is the lesser, and perhaps the present, intervention that is precisely preventing heavier care. If you look at physical therapy with those two glasses, how could you deal with them in the light of the basic package? That's how the trajectory is now deployed. That is not a question that will be answered overnight, and that also means that I do not say immediately on your first question: yes, no, of course, fine, we are going to do so. If it were easy, it would have been solved by now, but it's not such an easy question. You really need to go through that trajectory in a good way. I'd like to look again at the list of chronic diseases. By the way, even if you're on the list of chronic diseases, that doesn't mean that from treatment one it's also included in the basic package. It is only from the 20th day of treatment that it is eligible for reimbursement if such a disease is included in the list of chronic diseases. In short, the three elements of this approach must be done. Phybromyalgia is one of the conditions for which this applies and which is looked at, but I would like to get that route going first and not overnight here to make a package decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	That really is a very long answer to a rather clear question, I think. We are discussing a citizens' initiative here today. I therefore believe that we should do justice to what Natalie has said today and to what the supporters have shown in terms of the content of the citizens' initiative, but also to the 10,000 patients she stands for. I believe that, on a day like today, we can say something that really is something and that it should not just be limited to more research and 'we are going to look at it again in the future', because that is not enough for me. So my question to the Minister is whether he can actually make a somewhat firmer commitment that we here in the House of Representatives today find that something will be arranged for that group of patients who depend on physical therapy and who now have to pay for it very often themselves. Then I do not want another full answer on the system of solutions being examined, but then I want the ruling to be given on the outcome of all these investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	But then we can also eliminate the Healthcare Institute. Then we can also set up the whole Health Insurance Act, which stipulates that treatments are reimbursed when they are effective. So I would not be in favour of taking a package decision here per debate. I don't think we should do that. There are careful procedures for this. We all know that physiotherapy in particular does not simply relate to the principles that are now enshrined in the Health Insurance Act. We are all committed to these principles, because no one can afford to say: we do not care, all conceivable care must simply be compensated. No political party can really afford that, because the cost of it countries with society as a whole. Today we are talking about fibromyalgia, rightly, we may not have talked about it for too long, but tomorrow we are talking about all other diseases that should be added to the basic package without limit. At the end of the day, the entire society pays the bill. If we deal with our care in this way, we will no longer be able to keep care accessible. Care is never unlimited in any country in the world. In short, we have a Health Insurance Act with a system that requires treatments to be effective. This relates to a great deal of care that is already being paid for, also for fibromyalgia patients. I do not want to detract from the fact that some people do benefit from physical therapy, but it is more difficult when it comes to compensation in basic insurance and not in supplementary insurance. This applies not only to patients with fibromyalgia but also to patients with other conditions. That is why this process has been used by colleague Van Ark in relation to the question of which care you can actually make eligible for reimbursement from the basic package from that physiotherapy. That has the three elements I have just described. I should also like to mention the fibromyalgia question. I think that's just a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	I really think that the Minister is now failing patients with fibromyalgia, but also that he is failing our caregivers and physiotherapists. Apparently, he assumes that the physiotherapists continue to treat and knead while it all makes no sense and he assumes that patients haphazardly use care and physical therapy when they don't actually need it. I think you're failing both groups that way. The need for this group is obvious. Read the pieces we all got today. The need is obvious. This group has been helped with physical therapy. I think it is a good thing that when it comes to research and the state of science, we do not have a solution next week, but I do think we should be able to do more today for this group of patients by at least being able to commit something, in the sense that physical therapy is so important that we are entitled to compensation on the left or right. Whether through the chronic list or through a referral by the general practitioner or otherwise, we cannot leave that group to their fate any longer as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	I honestly think that Mr Hijink did me a little short when he summarized me, at least in what I meant to say. I do not want to detract at all from the experience of many fibromyalgia patients who say that they benefit greatly from physiotherapy. I don't want to take away the professionalism of physiotherapists. I would just like to stress that, where a great deal of care can simply be covered by basic insurance in the system as we know it, especially for physiotherapy, there is a strain on the requirements laid down by the Health Insurance Act on what is or is not eligible for reimbursement and the use of physical therapy. In order to solve this tension, therefore, I think that in the end I am quite close to you. We have already said: we need to see if we can actually make some of the physical therapy eligible for compensation from the basic package. That's not a route you're going to complete from today to tomorrow. I just outlined the elements in that trajectory. But of course you don't do that if you weren't going to see how you could handle it, with physical therapy in relation to our basic package. In addition, fibromyalgia is one of the diseases that could benefit from it. This applies to a number of other diseases. Hence the path we are taking to see which part of physical therapy is appropriate within the basic package, without failing to comply with the principles of the Health Insurance Act, namely the reimbursement of effective treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	The CDA supports the Minister that this Chamber does not decide what an effective treatment or medicine should be for a particular condition. Good thing there's a plan of action. What I have not yet heard the Minister say is that that approach also looks at what we call the other research method. As an example, I mentioned Fampyra, which some patients say is extremely effective and others do not. If you have the standard research method of large groups that use it and an entire group that doesn't use it, you don't always get the results that would be of interest to more specific groups. So I would argue whether the Minister would like to look again with the Healthcare Institute in that plan of approach whether the standard research method that we are doing for much larger groups is now the best method here, or whether there is another way to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think that's a sensible approach. If you look at the trajectory that was used, which everyone was actually dissatisfied with, both the physiotherapists and also the Healthcare Institute and also my predecessor, Mr Van Ark, I can imagine that we should not continue to do so in the light of what you are saying that was indeed according to that classic method, in which the answer was actually: that is not to be eligible for compensation whatsoever. That is precisely the reason for saying: can we look at it in a different way? Can we not look at the same issue through different eyes? Can we not look at those patients who clearly benefit from this treatment, for example, in order to prevent other treatment, or in order to support the conduct of daily life by instruction, through posture advice etc., in this way so that it could be partly eligible for compensation from the basic package? Well, that trajectory has been deployed. That is what the plan of action is now being drawn up for. I'd like to take your suggestion in the direction of the Healthcare Institute to look at it in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you. It's nice to say that Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, former CDA chamber member, sits in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u44	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u45	I got away...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u46	I need you to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u47	That's just a little thing here. I'm solid with two feet on top. Excuse me, Mr President, because this is a serious matter. I can hear the Minister say: I see that we have to do something with physical therapy, because I see that it benefits patients. But at the same time, this is an incredibly long trajectory. So if the outcome is "we're gonna look at it and you're gonna hear from us," then I don't think we're gonna be very happy. So what kind of time frame do we have to put these things into?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u48	I cannot answer that question properly at the moment, because the plan of action is being made at the moment. However, I can ensure that the plan of action will be with your Chamber this autumn. Then we can discuss this further on the basis of that approach. The plan of action should set clear timelines for the taking of these three different elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u49	Can't we have that plan of action a little sooner? The budget is, I say, out of my mind on the week of my birthday. That's October 27th; remember that! Can't we have the plan of action in that week? Then we can also bring it back to the budget and we also have the room to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u50	Let me say in everyone that I am going to do my utmost to achieve that. I understand the question very well, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u51	Okay. Maybe I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u52	I think that there is a good listening and that there will be a response with 'of course that can never be' or 'we are going to try'. In any case, I will make that known in the second term. The next and last block concerns the questions related to the other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u53	Before you start with the individual questions, there is another interruption by Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u54	I was just looking at when I could go best, because my question about the centre of expertise had already been answered. The Minister actually got over that rather quickly with a reference to the LUMC, but I think that is mainly the medical-scientific side of the story. Wouldn't it be good to see if it has added value to bring together all the knowledge and insights and to make the collaboration in such a centre of expertise insightful? This has been done before in connection with a citizens' initiative on Lyme disease. It doesn't have to be the same, but wouldn't it be good to offer the patients a place where everything comes together, where the patients are represented and where they can get insight into research and treatment options? That was actually the idea behind my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u55	I understand your question very well. As far as I am concerned, he is one of the questions that have been asked about the Wmo and the UWV, because there is mainly driven from the background: isn't there still a lot unknown about that disease? As long as there is so much unknown about the disease, it is also as difficult as a patient to get recognition that you do not complain and do not have a self-defeating condition, but that you are actually a patient and try to deal with it as well as possible. I would have liked to answer that question, and I would like to take up Mrs Maeijer's question in that answer, which I would like to contribute to. I believe it was Mrs Kuiken who asked what I see for myself as a minister to contribute to the awareness of the disease. It could also have been Mrs Westerveld. Forgive me for getting you a little confused lately! I'm sure you don't mind. I understand that too, and I would like to play a role in it, but I do need to consult with a number of parties. That is first of all the initiator herself, because I think she has some very good ideas about what would have helped her in revealing the backgrounds of this disease, but certainly also the LUMC. That's why I'm putting this to your question. How could we combine all the knowledge that is available and all the research that is being done as well as possible into the latest state of affairs? In addition, I would like to look with a number of other institutes of knowledge at how we can best shape the fame and whether it is possible to put something of a bundling into it. Let me just take that question as homework from this debate and come back to you. That is actually a combination of Mrs Westerveld's question and the question of yourself: how could you bring it together and bring it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u56	That is in itself positive. I'm happy about that. Then, of course, the question remains as to how long we can expect a feedback from it. I would also stress the importance of including patients' associations, because the aim is, of course, to make the patient understand what is going on and what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u57	Exactly. So it's actually the patients and the helpers you can all meet on your way. They should be able to learn about this pooling of expertise. That's what you'd like. It will be this autumn, but I am afraid to specify that further. It's really a job if you want to do that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u58	My question was a little wider. We could read in the note that there are also employers... Mrs Kramer herself went to the UWV to bring this to the attention. That's the kind of thing that helps. I would ask the Minister to take a broader approach in consultation with Mrs Kramer. I can already hear the Minister say yes. I think my point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u59	Yeah, it has to work for patients. What's going on with patients? When they run into aid workers and counters who have no idea what marks them. I think that is the background to your question and indeed Mrs Maeijer's. Mrs Maeijer focused more on the research point and you more on the support, but of course these things belong together. I want to see if I can put those two elements together. In any case, I am going to discuss this with the initiator and certainly also with the VNG and the UWV, for example. I think it would be useful to discuss that with them, too. Then the Wmo. Of course, there is quite a lot that is just eligible for compensation. Where the Health Insurance Act is mainly concerned with the effectiveness of the treatment and the need to finance the care from the basic insurance, the Wmo and the support provided by the UWV do not include a classified list of: what do you have? No, that's the question you need support with. That's the background to the Wmo. Everything we currently agree with the tool industry and with the VNG around the tool passport, the removal agreement, the whole action plan tools, also covers patients with fibromyalgia. With this, there is no legal obstacle to providing support if needed. Where there might be an obstacle, and that's why I call it in this context, is fame. Do people even know about the existence of this condition? Especially since it concerns such a large group, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u60	What I want to add to that is the importance of the treatment, the way you look at people who are chronically tired, who have fibromyalgia or who have another condition. We know that patients often have to prove that they have something at institutions that have to look at what someone is entitled to, and that is not possible in some conditions. And that, of course, also causes that incomprehension. It makes people feel alone. They feel they have to fight every time to be recognized. That's what's behind it. Would the Minister also explicitly include the treatment, the way in which agencies deal with patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u61	Absolutely. That is also very strong in the action plan tools. Indeed, that is very often about treatment. For example, it's about making long-term decisions, so you don't have to prove every time that you still need that tool, that stair lift. I think it's very good to look at the whole thing. The good news of this is that the Wmo and the support from the UWV are so combined that customization can be delivered. Each time the question can be looked at: what do you actually need to support? That means that space is there anyway. And then it comes to the fame of this condition, and I just haven't figured out how to do it the very best. Of course, you can't set up a huge centre of expertise for every condition. I can't. What you have to do is make sure the people at the counter understand who they're talking to. Of course you have to. I'm gonna see how I can best stimulate that familiarity and pool the expertise best. I'll get back to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u62	At this very point, I have a question. It is precisely for this reason that research by the Health Council is so important. What happened at ME/CVs? In doing so, the Health Council, unlike the Healthcare Institute, has looked very closely at what the disease means for patients involved. What do they run into in everyday life? Whether it's at home, in the neighborhood or at work, what barriers do they all encounter? Then I think the Wmo is a very important one. Precisely because tailor-made work is required, patients often encounter the problem that the municipality says: "We don't really know what you have. Maybe you can do a lot more than you say. Maybe your environment can do something." Et cetera et cetera. Those discussions are endless. They come back every year. That is why it is so important that this recognition is made available in the form of an opinion. Then municipalities will know that something is seriously going on and that these people have a serious chronic disease that needs help and support. I just wanted to say that. That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'll share what you say. I can imagine that this is indeed of added value. Suppose an investigation by the Health Council would last at least another year, it would take a long time. You can't wait to pool your expertise and promote awareness. I actually want to do that at the same time. In the same letter as that in which I will comment on whether it could indeed be the Health Council and how long it will take, I would also like to address how I can properly answer the question of Westerveld and Meijer. That question was: how can we raise awareness and how can we pool the expertise that exists? Then I think I have one more question to deal with. It's about sports. Sports associations must take this condition into account. Mrs Westerveld knows a lot more about sports clubs than I do, because she gets there more often. I'm just sitting on my race bike and you don't need a club for that. You know, of course, that sports associations are very often just voluntary organisations. That makes sure there's a limit to what you can ask from a sports association. That's the other side. But sports are insanely important. Sport is also very important in removing obstacles. So let's take both questions. How can you promote that awareness so that you can get that information accessible to sports associations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u64	I am actually pleased that the Minister here states that he is going to bring back a number of cases in the letter. I'm still missing out on the role of the minister in this. I would have asked a little more specifically for that in my speech. I think it is very important that you contact your colleague from Social Affairs and Employment about, for example, the UWV. You mentioned the VNG for a while. We have now also discussed the Social Support Act. As far as I am concerned, you take the role more emphatically, because I agree with you that if we wait for the Health Council, it may take a very long time. I therefore warmly welcome these two traces. I would just like to have your word that you are going to pull it a little harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u65	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u66	You're all saying that through the chairman. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u67	That's another one. Can you check it out? As far as I am concerned, it concerns three further steps which I believe I have a role to play. I'd like to take that up with you. The first step is to get a good picture of the state of science. The Health Council prefers that. I'm gonna see how I can give it as good as possible shape and content. I'll let you know. The second step is the reimbursement of Zvw care. A whole part is reimbursed, but in particular physical therapy is a problem there, not only for this condition, but also for other conditions. Of course, I have a role to play in finding a solution with your Chamber. That's two. Three is the fame. Of this I said that I would bring together the bundling of expertise that was more the approach of the PVV and the familiarity, which was more your own approach and Mrs Westerveld's approach. I want to see how we can give it an impulse. I certainly have a role in that. But the UWV is indeed one of the counters that you may encounter if you belong to the group of people with fibromyalgia. That must therefore be one of the interlocutors, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. We now have the possibility of a second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers and also for the commitment that he will look with the Health Institute at other research methods. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that chronically ill patients in need of physiotherapy depend on an additional package for the first 20 treatments;]] [[having regard to the Minister's reaction to the Van den Berg and Others motion for a resolution, of 4 July 2019 (26689, No. 1015);]] [[Considering that in its letter of 28 June 2021, the Minister concludes that it intends to halt the implementation of the current approach plan;]] [[Whereas the Minister does propose to discuss the challenges and directions of physiotherapy with interested parties;]] [[Whereas in its opinion "Without context no evidence', the Council for Health and Society recommended that other methods of investigation be allowed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the advantages and disadvantages, costs and benefits of including physiotherapy for chronically ill in the basic package, and to inform the House of Representatives as soon as possible and at the latest before a decision is taken on how to establish an (more) open claim for physiotherapy and practice therapy, as soon as possible and at the latest before the general consultation on package management 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Werner and Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's answers. It is clear that we do not know enough and that it is important that follow-up research is carried out. The SP is about to table another motion on this matter that I have signed. If the Health Council can't do it quickly, I'm also open to choosing another variant. But at least the question is to ask the Health Council. I am also pleased that there are research funds available for further research from the ZonMw, for example from the LUMC. I think that's good. We need to know more, and we want to know more about the reasons why we should ultimately achieve proper treatment. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one motion of my own, also because I think that we should do a number of things right to the citizens' initiative. That motion is about physical therapy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Citizens' Initiative "Recognize Fibromyalgia" talks about positive experiences that people with fibromyalgia have with physiotherapy;]] [[noting that the Minister for Medical Care stated in a letter to the Chamber on 25 June that it was important to examine how the added value of physiotherapy and practice therapy could be better demonstrated;]] [[Considering that the Minister intends to further concreteise and strengthen the expected added value of this concern in a broad context with parties;]] [[calls on the Government to include fibromyalgia in these talks and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u71	That's it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u73	I would briefly like to thank Mrs Kramer very much for the citizens' initiative. I hope we can take steps for all other fibromyalgia patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, thank you very much to Mrs Kramer for taking this initiative. I will fill it out for a moment, but it seems to me that it is rather difficult to hear from the back of the Chamber how we are all very involved in the subject and how we are pleased with the answers. I say this through the President to the Minister: thank you for all the answers you have given and for the commitments. I sincerely hope that you have actually promised and promised me that you will continue to play a role in this. It is of course very important that a resident of the Netherlands brings an issue to our attention, but it must remain on the agenda for a while, so that some steps are indeed going to be taken. As far as I am concerned, this debate today is a very good example of what we, as a Chamber, think should be recognised. Thank you very much. I wish you every success. I understand it's a tough morning for you, so thank you for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. I think we have a good idea of what's needed and now it's just a search to get there. After Mrs Kramer has taken the initiative to put this issue on the agenda after eight years, it is our responsibility that it is not going to take another eight months before we can achieve results, but that we are actually taking steps in the coming months. In order to speed this up, I have in any case co-signed a number of motions which will be tabled in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, thanks to Natalie Kramer and her mother for coming today and for having been able to discuss this important subject. Thank you also to the Minister for his answers. I think it is right to put forward two motions to ensure that we actually do what is so important to us all. The first is about the advice we would like from the Health Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fibromyalgia patients still feel too often misunderstood and do not always receive the care and support they need;]] [[Whereas in the past an opinion of the Health Council has given greater clarity and recognition to ME/CVS patients;]] [[In line with this study, the Government also invites the Health Council to consult on the state of science and developments in fibromyalgia and, in particular, on:]] [[the cause of this disease and the criteria for diagnosis;]] [[the course and prevalence of this disease;]] [[the possibilities for preventing and treating this disease;]] [[the impact of the disease on the patient and on his environment and social participation;]] [[the organisation of treatment and supervision of patients with the disease in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Kiek, Mr Westerveld, Mr Maeijer, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u80	I've got five seconds. That's just enough for the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many patients with fibromyalgia benefit from physiotherapy;]] [[Whereas this disease is not included in the chronic list for physiotherapy;]] [[Whereas, as a result, patients do not receive the necessary care or have to incur high costs themselves;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether fibromyalgia can be added to the chronic list to improve access to care for this group of patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Kuik, Mr Westerveld and Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying and also thank you for the commitment, in my own words, to consider the possibilities for pooling cooperation. That saves me another motion. Today's debate was about lists, about fees and about research, but in the end it is all about patients, the people who in this case deal with the consequences of fibromyalgia on a daily basis. I hope for them that, with this debate and the motions that have just been tabled by the SP, we can take some steps in the right direction in the short term, towards recognition, towards understanding and towards a better quality of life. I also hope that Mrs Kramer will be able to return home with some satisfaction about what she has achieved, but also with some satisfaction about this debate. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question for the Minister. It was just about physical therapy and unclearness about the reimbursement of treatments, but there is of course much more going on. Mrs Kramer also says this very clearly in her note, for example unclear about drug use, treatment, etc. Would the Minister be able to comment on that in a moment? Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fibromyalgia is more common in women;]] [[Whereas diseases occurring more frequently in women are less prominent in research programmes;]] [[calls on the government, together with research institutes, patient associations and (university) hospitals, to place structural research into diseases occurring especially in women in the research agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u84	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with rare diseases such as phybromyalgia often do not feel understood by the government and public authorities such as the UWV, because all those different parties deal differently with the patient;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage representatives of patients and doctors to prepare a hand-out to clarify both public authorities and patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35826-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that the Minister can prepare for the appreciation of the motions, and a single question has been asked. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u86	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his appreciation and to answer one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you. In my view, most of it is contained in motions, so I can actually just make the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 2 of the members Van den Berg, Werner and Paulusma. I'm going to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I'll add one thing. Informing the Chamber before the end of April has probably been requested for the purposes of AO Package Management. I'm going to try, but that date will be in the plan of approach that comes this autumn, because it also contains the timeline of that trajectory around physiotherapy. I understand your intentions very well. I'm going to do my best to fit it in as well as possible in time, so that it's also known to the AO, but I can't make a commitment on it in advance. I really depend on all those field parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u88	Our first approach was indeed to be informed before the Health Insurance Act Committee debate, but I had already changed the motion to "for the Package Management Committee debate"; so the Minister has two more months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u89	Look. You can't be much milder than this this afternoon, I understand. I'm gonna do my best. I understand the assignment, but I can't do it on my own, which is why. The motion in part No. 3 by Mrs De Vries to pay attention to fibromyalgia. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, although it fits in with the course of physiotherapy, but of course you mean it as well. But I'd love to. The motion in part No. 4 by Mr Hijink is a very special motion, at least if you look at the signature. I would also like to say this to the initiator. Where the Chamber sometimes finds it quite difficult to reach a real majority decision, for example around the formation, you can simply get a majority vote in your very first debate from left to right. So, of course, I can only pass judgment on this motion to the Chamber. You understand. The motion in part No. 5 requests to investigate whether fibromyalgia can be added to the chronic list. Yeah, except this fits into that trajectory around the physiotherapy. So I'm taking that into account in the same plan of action. I just explained that. But she's getting judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 6 calls for research into diseases occurring in particular in women to be placed on a structural footing. I'll leave that to the Chamber. Perhaps it would be good for Mrs Westerveld to know, because I did not answer that question because we recently made 3 million available to ZonMw to ensure that gender aspects are well protected in all studies. About medications, medicines, it is sometimes said that women are not enough in the study groups, in the clinical trials. That doesn't make any sense. What is true is that the gender dimension must be properly taken into account. For this we have made additional budget available to ZonMw. The motion in part No. 5 therefore gets judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 6. That's what I'm taking with me in the context of that celebrity. Representatives of doctors and patients are asked to prepare a hand-out and to give clarity to public authorities. I like that assignment I'm taking with me. So I'll let your Chamber know in the same letter how to deal with that question. It will also deal with Mr Hijink's motion for a resolution on whether it should be the Health Council that is going to carry out that investigation and how that awareness can be further promoted. I'd be happy to take this motion with me. That letter's coming this fall. Then there's just one question for me to come back to. That was a question from Mrs Kikkie, who asked whether the plan of approach for budgetary treatment and for or on her birthday could be ready. The honest answer is: not really, because that administrative consultation is scheduled on the 28th, which I do not think is very convenient. But this is not a desired answer. I get my assignment, which is to see if we can bring that up a little bit more. I'm gonna see if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u90	The motion in part No. 6 gets judgment Room. And there was another question from Mrs Westerveld that needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yeah, but I think I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u92	Otherwise, Mrs Westerveld will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u93	It was in the interrupting debate with Mr Hijink and others specifically about physical therapy. I asked the Minister if he could go into more detail about the lack of clarity about medicines, treatments and so on. What can be done about this, so that there is more clarity, especially for patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u94	I thought I answered that question quite extensively. I have dealt with how the fees system works in the context of the Zvw, because that is what it is all about. The Wmo, the Participation Act and what the UWV does is not linked to disorders. This is more about the question of what you need to be able to participate. In addition, there is plenty of room for those who have to make decisions to deliver customization. All that's needed there is fame. That's that part. Where Zvw care is concerned, it is not so much a list of diseases that are relevant to whether or not they are eligible for reimbursement, but there the question of effectiveness is relevant. Not so much in general care, which is simply reimbursed, also for people with phybromyalgia. Pain treatment is also simply compensated, because where there is medical-specialist care aimed at pain treatment, it is simply done in accordance with the guidance and in accordance with the directive on pain control. If you are referred to it by your GP, that is just to be reimbursed care. Where the problem really is, is on physical therapy, because the question of effectiveness is so difficult to answer. Not just for patients with fibromyalgia, but at all. That's why we're deploying the entire physiotherapy pathway. You mentioned the medication for a while. In fact, there is what applies to everyone, namely preference policy. It's embedded in the Health Insurance Act. It is so arranged that health insurers decide on the reimbursement of medicines. Most medicines do. There too, fibromyalgia does not apply to anything other than what applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u95	I understand the Minister's answers, but we're going around in circles. Because there is so little or insufficient knowledge, the effectiveness of treatments and medication is still far from always known. In Mrs Kramer's note, we read about her own search for it. That's my point: that's how we circle around in circles. I can understand why we cannot break through that in this debate. I welcome the Minister's commitments. But it is true that a lot of patients are still in uncertainty and unclear about what is or is not being reimbursed when it comes to physiotherapy, but also about treatments and medication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u96	In a way, that's true, of course. This applies not only to fibromyalgia, but to multiple diseases. At the same time, I believe that our predecessors, for, for, for, and for, good reason, our predecessors included in the Health Insurance Act in 2006 the principle that care should be effective before it is eligible for reimbursement. This effectiveness must therefore be demonstrated at some point, but it is not so easy to demonstrate. This does not apply to many other parts of the care, but to physical therapy. Multiple patients with multiple conditions have "burden" of this and so there is that whole process for physiotherapy. But we should not pretend that nothing is being compensated because the cause of fibromyalgia is unknown. That is not the case, because general practitioners and pain relief are simply compensated. On the contrary, a very large proportion is covered by health insurance. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u97	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this citizens' initiative. I would like to thank Mrs Kramer and her mother once again for putting this issue on the agenda for the European Parliament. As the Minister said, your initiative has made it possible for the whole Chamber to connect to this issue. That is a very special merit, which, of course, has to do with your efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-30-tweedekamer-5.u98	We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday, 5 October. I will inform you of the outcome of the votes. I thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, who keeps bending, I see from my corners of the eye. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. and then we shall vote.
