ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are going to deal with the amendment of a number of education laws relating to adjustments in the area of the transit of primary education to secondary education. Welcome to the Minister and members. Ten members have signed up. It is a law, with quite considerable speaking time per speaker. We also have two other debates today. That is why I would suggest that two or four separate interruptions can be carried out in the first period. Otherwise, we're just not gonna make it in time. There is always the possibility of returning to business in the second term. That's how I want to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	We will begin with the first speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term. That is Mrs Westerveld, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I remember doing the Cito test in elementary school. Then I was in a class of four at a country school. I remember when we were very friendly. We could be in a separate place when we were in the eighth grade. I also remember that at least I had almost no stress. I'd like to see the students now and then, too. If I sometimes read in newspapers and hear from students and parents what stress this final test, which is now going to be a flow test, I do not really give them that. I hope that in future we will be able to put less pressure on that final test, or at least less pressure on students. The subject we are discussing today is something that we have had a lot of discussion about in recent years, namely the final test. The question is: can a test best determine the level of a student at the end of primary school, or can teachers who have followed that child throughout the entire school career talk about the film that the teacher sees and the photo moment of the test that is best? Or is advice perhaps not necessary at all and should we move towards later selection in the form of, for example, broader bridge classes? Mr. Chairman. In this discussion, GroenLinks has always been concerned about the inequality of opportunity surrounding this issue. For example, we know that there is under-advisation, that children of parents who are practically trained and children of parents who are less empowered are more often given lower school advice. Last school year this was even more visible when the finals dropped, so children from poor families could not adjust their school advice by the test and were too often placed at a lower level. On the other hand, we know that inequality of opportunity also plays a role if you make the test more important again. This also has to do with the emergence of shadow education, the fact that training is becoming more and more frequent to make this final test as good as possible. It is mainly the parents who have studied themselves and the mature parents who arrange tutoring for their children and sometimes also talk to teachers to adjust the advice a bit upwards. That works, and that maintains inequality. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks therefore remains in favour of realising the fight against inequality of opportunity by encouraging later selection, for example by offering more broad bridge classes and providing combined school advice. My first question to the Minister is therefore why this legislative amendment was not used to do more with those combined school advices. The Minister writes that schools have been pointed out the importance of promising advice and not just giving single school advice, but that only 28% of schools give broad school advice. What can the Minister do to encourage or possibly oblige the use of this more firmly, I ask him. The Minister encourages schools to offer broad bridge classes, especially in the light of the corona disadvantages, but has the Minister pictured how many schools are actually going to work on this? Are schools that want to introduce broad bridge classes sufficiently supported in this, for example with the money from the National Education Programme? And can the Minister provide support so that these broad bridge classes can also continue to exist if the National Education Programme stops? Finally, I am curious to see what is going on with the pilots with 10-14 education. Mr. Chairman. Then back to the law we're discussing today. That law can be roughly divided into two parts. The first part deals with the question of when this final test should be taken and whether it should be renamed "through flow test." I think that was one of Mr Van Meenen's suggestions in the debate a few years ago. The second part of this law is about who can make these tests and who controls them. I'll start with that first part. We can largely go along with that. As I said before, we do think that even greater steps need to be taken to tackle inequality throughout the education system. At the same time, this law seems to take a step by introducing a single registration moment for all pupils in secondary education. It'll make for more equality. As a result, pupils whose school advice is later adjusted have the same chance of getting to the school of their choice. That is beautiful and important, because it is often a question of pupils coming from a more difficult position. Mr. Chairman. I do have a question about updating school advice. The school is obliged to reconsider school advice as a student who makes finals better. If the school decides to deviate from the test, it must be justified. Examination of the inspection shows that one in three schools indicated no recommendation to reconsider this year. In recent years, 10% of schools have not changed the school advice for any pupil. This while a revised advice according to the same inspection is working out well. In 80% of the cases, children with an updated advice will survive at that level in secondary education. It is not mandatory to amend the opinion, but to reconsider the opinion. I would like to ask the Minister: does the inspection check on this reconsideration and the presence of a justification? If not, will the Minister discuss this with the inspection? Shouldn't we possibly make it mandatory? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister whether there is sufficient attention to school advice in teacher training. The minister writes that some pabos pay attention to school advice in a specialization or a subject about the older child. Should this not be given a stronger position in the training so that teachers can actually give those good school advices? Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the second part of the law on who can offer the tests. We're a little less positive about that. With this bill, the Minister wants to abolish the Central Final Test and only allow the final test to be offered by market players. We, GroenLinks, have both substantive and fundamental problems with this. I have tabled a rather comprehensive amendment with Mr Kwint on this subject, which we are sure to discuss and which Mr Kwint will also refer to in his contribution. I would also like to say a few words about it. The Minister writes: "It is no longer necessary to offer a flow-through test as a government now that there are sufficient market players who are able to offer these flow-through tests." I'm having trouble with that reasoning. After all, there are more public authorities that we can leave to market players, but that does not mean that we always have to do so. That brings me to the key question I have here: what problem is this going to solve? At the moment, there is freedom of choice for schools. Almost half of the schools already opt for a different test than the Central Final Test, from another provider. So the other half deliberately chooses that Central Final key. From these figures, I note that there is no huge need in schools to go massively for another final test, offered by private parties. I would like to ask the Minister: is this question coming from the field? Are schools using the Central Final Test satisfied with this? Where did this come from? The Minister states that the second reason is that a sound system cannot be guaranteed in the way it is now going. I wonder if there's no other way to solve this than by leaving the offering of tests entirely to market players? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Then I have one more point of principle. By placing the tests as a whole with market players, a further part of the education market is being marketed. As the Minister knows, I have been working with Mr Kwint, but also with other colleagues here, for a few years now, on the growth of private and supplementary education. We have also warned and said several times about the National Education Programme: beware that not a large part of this money goes to private parties, because education is a good public that we have to finance with each other. As far as we're concerned, it should stay that way. By taking the final tests as a whole on the market, even more money that is public, which is all of us, which is intended for education, will go to profit-making parties. I am also concerned about a possible proliferation of tests. The Minister writes that he expects only a small number of suppliers to venture into this market, because very specific things are required. We also read that there is a lot of supervision. But how does the Minister know for sure? I'd like to ask him. Will it not be the case that these private key providers will also come up with customized trainings for their own keys? We know that private education is growing. I have also looked at the sites of some of the providers who are already allowed to offer tests. Of course, in a few years' time they might also be offering tailor-made tests that parents can buy in order to prepare their child as best as possible for making that final test as good as possible. This in turn leads to more private education in our public system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	All the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	Okay. Does the Minister also see this risk and in what way does this law address the problem of shadow education around tests? What about key training for the final test? I've been looking it up for a while. We talked about a few reports a few years ago. You can see that this is a problem especially in secondary education. In the last State of Education, the supply of private parties in shadow education is also increasing in higher education. I cannot escape the impression that this also happens more and more often in primary education. So I would like to ask the Minister if we have any new figures. Mr. Chairman. Then the comparability of the different tests, because that is what I am worried about. I'm not the only one in there. The Council of State recommends that the review system should not be adapted and that the Central Final Test should not be abolished as private tests have not yet been comparable for a longer period. I quote the Council of State: 'It is not yet certain that the market already provides for final tests of the same quality as the Central Final Test and are sufficiently transparent and unambiguous. Abolition of the Central Final Test is therefore premature at the moment. The Section therefore recommends that we refrain from abolishing the Central Final Test." Can the Minister explain why he is rejecting this opinion of the Council of State and why the tests are already of sufficient quality and comparable? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about tests for students with disabilities, because I read that the government continues to ensure that a Braille version of the test remains available. This is therefore specific to students who are blind or have severe reading limitations and cannot see properly. Because the development of a flow test suitable for blind pupils is financially unfeasible for market players and requires this specialist knowledge, the government remains responsible for this. At the same time, I read that "for all other pupils who have a disability but who are not covered by the policy exemption grounds, final testing is a matter for market players to offer suitable versions for these pupils." I would like to know more about this from the Minister, because what kind of tests and which students are we talking about? And is the Minister sure that market players do have the right expertise and that they want to bear the financial cost of this? In short, how will the Minister guarantee that all types of pupils will receive a suitable test? I would add as a final remark that, of course, students who have autism or learn in a different way will also benefit from appropriate tests, because they are better suited to the way they learn. We know that inequality also occurs because a lot of teaching material that is available now, how it is offered and how tests are offered sometimes does not match the way these students learn. So how do we ensure that there is also equality and that these pupils are given every opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm going all the way back to the beginning of Mrs Westerveld's story, which I was able to follow. She's not a car driver. I always have used cars. At some point this and that start to break down and then that is not good again. Every time you think, shall we fix it or should we buy a new one? That's how I look at the current transition of p.o. to vo and I listen to that in her words. Actually, we've known for a long time that the system we have now is not optimal. It stands in the way of equality of opportunity, there is a too early selection et cetera. She said all that. So we're sitting here twisting buttons of something that's actually already broken, but we're still trying to do it as well as we can. My question to her is: does she agree with me that the only thing that improves this law compared to the current situation is that there will be a central registration moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	The comparison with the car is kind of funny. The last time I drove was indeed years ago, but I understand what Mr Van Meenen is trying to say. I took the stenogram from the discussion we had a few years ago. At that time, we were also concerned about this transition with a large part of the Chamber. At that time Mr Van Meenen also said that the greatest inequality actually arises in that transition of p.o. to vo. I have read very well what Mr Van Meenen said about that at the time. He is right, of course, and he does have a point: we are dealing here with a law that does a few things. I was just saying in my contribution that we are actually quite positive about the first part. This is mainly about the equal registration time, which also gives children whose advice is later updated the same chance of being placed at the school of choice. That's a good thing. On the second part of the law, I was also clear about this. We are far less positive. We have also tabled a very comprehensive amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes. Let's talk about the first part. That central login moment comes, but at that time we chose that whole new order, namely first to move the advice and the test as far back as possible, because it makes the opinion more important, et cetera. That indeed had only one disadvantage and that was that there were actually two registration moments: one for most students and then one for those who received an updated advice. That also gave rise to inequality, and now we're going to fix it. You can fix that in two ways. You can choose to move the advice backwards.This will keep the school year for group 8 long, with a lot of education. or you can move it forward. It has been chosen to put it forward, undoubtedly under pressure from the schools that want to have time. I always say that in my own words, to put the children in the booth as best as possible. Maybe we should give them less time for that. So my question is: shouldn't it be in the eyes of GroenLinks that the registration time should be as late as possible in the year? Isn't March 24 very early?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	I can imagine what Mr Van Meenen is saying. There are, of course, a number of bottlenecks as to why this law has been made. One of these bottlenecks is the period between the school advice and the final test. There shouldn't be too much space between them. I do not quite understand that argument, because I would say: let us ensure that we get the best possible picture of the student and let us make sure that the system has been adapted accordingly. At the same time, I also understand that schools in secondary education want to have clarity at some point about how many students apply and so on. So I understand both considerations. I do agree with Mr Van Meenen that we need to look at what the student needs and make sure that the system fits in as well as possible rather than the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	In conclusion, you have four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes. I agree to bring the advice and the test as close as possible, so you have one login moment. There are two ways of achieving that. You can do what happens now, which is to bring the test back up in the school year or you can put the advice backwards, as close as possible to that final test, so that you have as much education time as possible. That's actually my point. Then the final question is: isn't this law a huge operation to regulate just that one moment, and then at a time too early for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yeah, this law's pretty messed up. I must also say quite frankly that we do not yet agree on whether we should vote for or against this law. That is mainly because of that second part, I say to Mr Van Meenen, but I also understand his point that if you really want to tackle that inequality of opportunity, we may have to do something much bigger that is not in this law. I hope that has answered his questions. I certainly recognize the comments he makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you for your input and the response to the interruptions. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Kwint, who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the preparatory phase of the debate on the final test in education a motion was given by me to ultimately not privatise the Cito test 74 seats behind it. So let me start my input with a compliment. It bears witness to the political courage of the Minister to send a bill to the Chamber in the outgoing state with a proposal which he knows is so sensitive. This particular point is therefore immediately one of the objections that the SP has against the law. It just came by. It will therefore not surprise the Minister and colleagues that we have tabled an amendment on this together with GroenLinks. I suspect that it is the longest amendment, at least in terms of the legal text, that I have ever tabled, because this is such a typical collectible law that changes something in so many different education laws that if you want to change something back, you really need to rewrite an incredible amount of articles. So, at least from this point on, I should like to congratulate the legislative lawyers of Bureau Legislation who have managed to put my wishes into an amendment which I believe is correct. At the time of choosing to allow multiple final keys, a very specific choice was made to keep the key available from Cito. And that was not for nothing: the final test is still a legal obligation, and so there must always be a final test. And what should always be there, which is legally required, a government may find something about it, and a government may have to interfere with it. This is perhaps something that the government should take care of, because yes, companies can rise up, companies can sink down, companies can go bankrupt. Let me start with this question: how is the Minister going to ensure a legal function when he has finally given up the performance of these tests? What is the Minister going to do when, due to a crisis that we cannot foresee, all kinds of providers disappear at once? And then, of course, it's easy to say "yes, that's a very hypothetical example, that's never gonna happen," but that's what my party thinks is a slightly too frivolous way of dealing with a legal task. So our amendment seems to us to be a better solution to this, and I am genuinely curious about the Minister's arguments as to why he did not do so. Because I do read that a calamity test needs to be developed. This means that a test must still be developed by the government, but we are not going to use it as a Cito test because we do not want to undermine the earning capacity of four or five private providers. Well, then we're just doing double work, aren't we? And how has the criticism, as we have said earlier and as it has been repeated by the Council of State, been taken into account, namely that the comparability between them, Mrs Westerveld, has not yet been guaranteed? Then where does this haste come from to finally do this, when the Council of State says, when parties have already said: boys, look out, because we don't yet know how these tests relate to each other, and we should be careful of the risk that schools and school boards will eventually go shopping and looking for a test that they think might give the most beautiful results to their own pupils at that time? The Minister is telling us, and I very much agree with him that it is not explicitly intended that a final score of such a final test should eventually become a flat comparative material between schools. We all know that a final score on a final test doesn't tell the whole story about the quality of education. But we are all sitting here with people who are paid royally to spend much of the week on education. We may know some guidelines and how to weigh this test. Complicated technique, law, end-terms, standards, tests, that's part of our job. But if you're looking for a good school for your child as a parent and you're going to go to Schools on the map, you're looking very quickly at that average Cito score, because it's really easy to compare, especially when you see what complicated things you have to compare differently, from school vision and support and everything that's more. So if the Minister says that it is not the intention to use the score of that final test to put schools next to each other, to compare schools, to say "this is a good one and this is a bad school," what does he do to prevent it from happening? Then there is the issue of updating the opinions, as Mrs Westerveld has already mentioned. We talk here all the time about promising advice and giving children as much chance as possible to try it in high school: see if it's something for you. In practice, however, we still see that an upward adjustment is relatively limited, even if there is reason to do so, and that it particularly affects children who have parents who are simply part of the working class, who are practically trained, and who are often under-advised. Now I think there is an amendment from the VVD to change that. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this. I am also curious if he can answer why, for example, he has not always chosen to say: you know, we take the highest advice, and then a child can just try. It is indeed a point in this law that we are, in theory at least, positive about. It was also about Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Westerveld, namely the joint notification moment. At present, around 15% of children receive an updated school advice, which means that they will receive their advice later than other children. What does that mean? Those other kids, with parents who are often eager to register their child at that very dear high school, they're all already enrolled, and the moment you get an updated school advice, it could be that the school you'd like to go to is actually already full, so to speak. That's actually not fair, and it's good that something happens about that. But we are less enthusiastic about the way, about the execution. Why wasn't it chosen to take the advice backwards instead of the test forward? I can guess the answer: it's because of the school boards. That's because of the VO board. This is because of the practical feasibility for schools to register children on time. But has the Minister also looked at the disadvantages? Because you lose at least a month, and probably even more, to teaching time, to time you could have used to raise the level of all students. We are not convinced that this would not be possible for schools and that the logistical problem that you are taking away from the schools justifies children missing a considerable period of education. In my opinion, the current proposal is almost six months between the time when the final test is taken in primary education and the time when you have your first day of high school. That's a long time. It is a shame if you spend that time mainly on preparing the musical, I say apart from my personal view of musicals. Before I go into some broader questions about the final test, I will finish with that. I have some practical questions first. What influence does the government expect this bill to have on the already heavy workload in primary education? Last year's hectic. We know that the workload in primary education is high. If that test is to be taken forward, it is likely that the same amount of lessons, the same amount of knowledge transfer, the same amount of instruction, will have to be done in a shorter time. What does that mean in the end for the period after the final test? What does the Minister expect students and teachers to do? Mrs Westerveld also mentioned the pabos. School advice is still not given everywhere. That doesn't matter on every pabo. That's kind of weird, isn't it? The phenomenon of under-advisation occurs especially in children from working-class families. Teachers often subconsciously have the idea: we don't overestimate you. In my opinion, it is good for every teacher, whether he is going to work in the 8th grade or not, to be aware of it and to be educated in it. Does the Minister not agree that everyone should be aware of this and be given lessons in it? Then there is the group of pupils who will, among other things, pass on to practical education or parts of secondary special education. There are concerns as to whether it will be possible to issue declarations of admissibility in time. Schools say, "You don't have to. It's gonna be okay. We can handle this." That's good to hear. We ask that this be monitored in any case in the coming years and that we really look at whether this vulnerable group should not be in administrative difficulty, because if such a risky transition is accompanied by administrative problems and bureaucratic stress, the risk of failure will only increase. We all know that. But the Minister doesn't want to keep that separate. Isn't it a little hard to do that? Finally. Actually, it's crazy to have this debate right now, just as there's more and more discussion about early selection in Dutch education and more and more calls for broad schools, broad school communities, extended bridge classes, 10-to-14 schools and say it all. More and more people also question the way we pay hard at the end of primary education. For example, look at Mrs Karen Heij's study. I suspect Mr Van Meenen will come back to it as well. Has the Minister read this study? What did he think of it anyway? The question my party has to deal with in a broader sense is the following. If the final test helps to ensure the quality of, among other things, language and computational skills of pupils, one would think that there will be more attention to these two issues, but that this will also be at the expense of the attention paid to other, perhaps less measurable, matters in primary education. But since the final test came, the quality of the level of mastery of language and computational skills among pupils has actually deteriorated. Why is that? You would think that this test should lead to more attention to language and arithmetic. How does the Minister see that? Does he share the criticism of a person like Mrs Heij? I am almost done, Mr..... that a focus on measurable results can lead to a deterioration of education and that the final test plays a role in that? I suspect, and I understand quite frankly, that part of the Minister's answers to the questions will be: these are such complex questions, which are intended for a subsequent cabinet. There is no proposal or amendment ready to take that whole test out, but I hope he will consider his findings in his reply in recent years, precisely on this point. What has he encountered and what role does this final test play in our early selection education system? These are important questions that we will have to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for your input. The next speaker of the Chamber will be Mrs Paul, who will speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, maybe Mrs. Paul isn't gonna say it in her modesty, but it's her maiden speech, if I'm well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's what I just heard next to me say. That's the case. The use is that someone who makes a maiden speech isn't being interrupted. And I see that more than one group of Members, like the other colleagues, are going to listen to you in handcuffs. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the early 1960s, my father, a young engineer in Karachi, Pakistan, decided that he wanted to gain experience in a European company. And for some reason, he had figured out that he wanted to go to Volkswagen in Germany. But the coincidence was that my grandparents had friends in the Netherlands, in Nijmegen, who had been through a lot in the war. And so my father got a letter on high feet: don't go to Germany, come to the Netherlands. To which my father wrote back: but what is there in the Netherlands? Then came the proud answer: in the Netherlands we have DAF in Eindhoven. So that's what my father did base his choice on. With only one suitcase with clothes he stepped on a freighter as a passenger, because that was much cheaper than flying. He stayed with those friends in Nijmegen for a few weeks, put on his neat suit and went to DAF to apply there. He was hired and went straight to work, with success and pleasure. My father worked at DAF until his retirement. Until his death, three years ago, my father treated us to colourful stories about his DAF, about the innovative technology of the DAF 600 variomatic with the brighter poker, about Mr Huub and Mr Wim, as he called the founders, and about the warm contacts with DAF importers from all over the world. When DAF asked my father in the mid 1960s if he wanted to join the service temporarily, my father said: I can only say yes if my fiancé in Pakistan also says yes. He asked my mother to marry me and happily she said yes. They then came together to the Netherlands in 1965. The early years weren't easy for my parents. They didn't have it wide. They missed their family and friends. They missed the heat and the sun. They missed their spicy food. The neighbors and colleagues of my father undoubtedly meant it very well, but hospitality in the Netherlands at that time often consisted of a cup of coffee and one cookie, and everything by appointment. Since my mother didn't speak Dutch in the early years, those coffee visits with neighbors often consisted of playing stupidly, very politely smiling at each other and so that one cup of coffee with that one cookie. That has sometimes felt very lonely, but my sister and I have never noticed. We've had a wonderful loving childhood, for which I am very grateful to my parents. By quickly learning Dutch and getting involved in the village where we lived through volunteering, through sport and through social activities, they quickly became established. This gave my sister and I all the space and opportunities to always and everywhere fully participate. That's what I experienced when I went to kindergarten in Geldrop, a village near Eindhoven. I didn't speak Dutch at the time and didn't know what to expect. At home we had an album from that time I came from, that's still pre-cd vinyl with Dutch children's songs. "Three times three is nine, each sings his own song," that was the lead song. Sitting on my mother's lap we practiced the Dutch lyrics together, which we honestly didn't understand, but which we cheerfully phonetically enjoyed. So that first day of school was extra exciting, but all the tension went away when I was taken by Miss Tilly and got a seat in the classroom. Ms. Tilly, Miss Bloem, Mr. Vercoelen and much later Mr. Van 't Hooft and Mr. Franken of classical languages, Mr. Verschuren van Engels and "Puntje," our favorite history teacher, who was actually called Mr. Van 't Hooft, but had a little wart in his face and therefore was called "Puntje": they sometimes took me literally, but mainly figuratively on the hand and helped me find my place within the school, but especially outside. I look back with incredible pleasure and gratitude on my school and study time, on all the teachers and teachers who have taught me everything and encouraged and challenged me. Also at school I got all the space and opportunities to get out what's inside. Those are the odds I give every child. From the Lower House I want to work hard for this in the coming years, so that every child can enjoy good education and great teachers and therefore get the best out of themselves. Mr. Chairman. Everyone remembers their eighth grade or, in my case, sixth grade. There was tension about the final musical. Mr Kwint has already referred to this. We were all excited: what part do you get? And of course, there was the tension around the Cito or final test. What high school do you get to go to? Are your boyfriends and girlfriends going with you? And not unimportant: how far is the bike? In my case, that was about 15 kilometers, so 15 kilometers back and 15 kilometers back very healthy. I miss that move right now! The legislative proposal we are discussing today takes some of the tension away, but its main aim is to increase equal opportunities between students, for example by having one application for secondary school for all pupils. We are for this as a VVD, because this is more honest for the students who get a higher opinion based on a good final test score. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, students are disadvantaged with a revised advice. They have a seven times smaller chance of being placed at the school or at the higher level of their choice. This creates inequality. Students who are underestimated will not only receive their amended school advice at a later date, but will often no longer be able to reach the level of the school which is best suited to their talents as a result of this adjustment. What further enhances inequality of opportunity is the fact that research carried out by the Education Inspectorate shows that one in three schools refuses to update school advice, even if there is a higher test result. These are mainly pupils from poorer families, students from outside the Randstad and students from a migration background. Within these groups, it's more girls than boys. That's not fair. Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure equal opportunities for these groups of pupils and a good start in a secondary school that matches their qualities and ambitions, I have tabled an amendment that regulates this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to put a few questions to the Minister in response to his written replies on the legislative proposal. The issue of teacher training has already been raised by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint, but I would also like to repeat this. The note following the report makes it clear that pabo-training does not pay attention to school advice in all cases, although this is, of course, a very important part of teaching and is extremely important for the pupils concerned. I ask the Minister, in consultation with his colleague Van Engelshoven, to emphasise this section much more in the pabo-training courses, so that teachers are given more tools to shape good school advice, of course in consultation with their relevant colleagues. Mr. Chairman. In the school year 2019-2020, due to the corona crisis, no final test was taken in group 8. We're almost a school year away now. The VVD therefore asks the Minister if he has an image of the school advices of students in the past year. Are most students now at the level that suits them best? Or do we see that, for example, students from non-urban areas, pupils from a lower socio-economic class or girls have been scaled down in line with what the DUO report already reported last December? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have been able to experience for myself what it is like to get into the world well prepared thanks to good education. In one generation of completely new in a country, you can go to the people's representatives of that same country. And I can tell you that is not the case in all countries. I'm very proud of my parents. I'm proud of this country. And I'm proud and especially grateful that I'm standing here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs Paul, thank you very much for your wonderful maiden speech. Congratulations on that! It is also nice that "Puntje" has been recorded in the Acts, forever, in the House of Representatives. I suggest that we suspend for a moment so that colleagues can congratulate you. Will you stand here in front of me? I'll ask everyone to keep a distance of five feet, because that rule still applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the amendment of certain education laws relating to the adaptation of primary education to secondary education. We were working on the first term on the side of the Chamber. We need the third speaker, excuse me, the fourth speaker. That is Mr Segers, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Paul. It's a beautiful story. Mrs Paul ended by saying that she is grateful and proud. I think a lot of people here are grateful and proud that you're here with us. You told the story of your childhood. You're sitting here right now, but there's been a lot of preliminaries. Education has had a very important place in this development, with an honourable mention for Mr Puntje. I think we all had our own "Mr. Dot." The history teachers were the most favorite teachers, at least in my school career. It's also special that DAF stopped by. The autometaphors came by early this morning. Mr Van Meenen already mentioned a car; he came along. And I think we've had a rusty car somewhere before. That was one thing, too. So we're gonna keep that car in. But congratulations and a very good time here. I look forward to the debates on this. Speaking of impressive stories, last Saturday I read the story of Tim 'S Jongers in the Volkskrant about growing up in poverty. That was really an impressive story, of someone who really was in the gutter, in very difficult circumstances. It is impressive to see how important practical education is then, how important it is then that there is a teacher, that there are teachers who take someone by hand and take them to the place where they can really develop their talents. Some people have really had it a lot harder than I've had it, for example. It is good to read such stories and see how important education is, also as a place of emancipation and development. That wealth of education lies in the interaction between teacher and student, between Mr.Puntje and Mariëlle Paul, that kind of relationship. The discussion about the final test, because that is what this is about, has always been about in the past what should be leading, the teacher's advice or the final test score, and what should be done earlier, the final school advice that students can apply for or the final test. The Christian Union is pleased that the teacher's advice and the final test are now drawn together. That is the essence of this bill. With this we still trust the teacher and his professionalism to reach a good judgment, but also offer an instrument that can correct any unconscious prejudices. Mr. Chairman. It's important that everyone can develop their talents. We have trained ourselves not to talk about "higher education" and "lower education," but to see that there is a diversity of talents and opportunities and that sometimes it is about other knowledge and skills and not about more or less knowledge and skills. And yet I see that in writing, in the explanatory statement, it does come back. There is talk of more knowledge and skills on the basis of which there would be a different advice. I saw the truth come back in Mr Paul's amendment, which was about 'upstairs' and 'downstairs'. This presupposes a kind of hierarchy of school types, which I do not think should be there. A kind of driving force has emerged towards the vwo, as if that is the highest attainable goal; if that does not succeed, then havo. That does the diversity of all of us truly wrong. It should not be an adjustment upwards, but a level that suits a student. In my opinion, we are now quite in agreement in the Committee on Education that we should not talk about 'higher' and 'lower'. I would ask the Minister to be keen on that in his writing and speaking. According to the Christian Union, the problem of adjustment can be solved with multiple school advice. That also gives more room. The first is to contribute to greater equality of opportunity. It has already been recalled that students with an amended school advice have a seven-fold chance that they will no longer be able to go to the school of their preference. That is extremely worrying. So this could contribute to greater equality of opportunity. This is also a member of the bonus in the National Programme Education for secondary schools that form broad bridge classes. And there's a broader desire for those broad bridge classes. There is further contribution to reducing the greatly increased path dependence. Does the Minister see room in this bill for encouraging these multiple advices to leave some room for students who are still developing in a variety of ways, and to give them a little space in that advice? Mr. Chairman. The bill reduces the time between the final test and the school advice to also counter test training. The Council of State points out that in practice at the end of Group 7 parents already send their children to private test training. Following this opinion, the main objective, the fight against inequality of opportunity, has been removed from the legislative proposal. But a different path could of course have been to insert those measures that contribute to equality of opportunity, so to stick to that goal. Instead of deleting it, you could indeed take measures that contribute to the goal of equality of opportunity. Isn't that a better route, I ask the Minister. The Council of State advises after analysing what contribution is actually being made to promoting equality of opportunity. In response, therefore, the main objective is deleted. So has there been any thought as to how the bill can meet that primary objective? Mr. Chairman. The school is a community in which teachers, pupils and parents work together in good education. That's gonna be harder if parents don't know what their options are. The Christian Union Group is always in favour of encouraging parental involvement. We are also pleased that the school guide includes the procedure surrounding the school advice. But I do wonder if this is a definitive solution to the problem. In my group's view, the problem is that there is inequality between children whose parents know their way around, and children of parents who are less well aware of this, who are less able to speak, for example. Shouldn't the school guide also offer opportunities by pointing out parents' options for discussing that school advice? And shouldn't they be helped, at least some parents? One task of the government is to ensure good education. The bill abolishes the current hybrid form of final tests, leaving only non-public test providers. That hybrid shape with anchor calls is only just there, since 2018, has been further strengthened in 2019, there has been no final test in 2020 and we are now going to decide to modify the system. If that's not too soon, I'll ask the Minister. What bottlenecks in the hybrid system are now so problematic that, without proper evaluation, a new system is once again being introduced? Finally, Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is very critical of comparability. The CPB considers it necessary that the test opinions are well comparable. I don't want to make a plea here for keeping the government's central final test forever, but I do wonder if we're moving too fast now. To be honest, I am concerned about the comparability of these tests, whether they are sufficiently guaranteed. Can the Minister take care of those concerns? And is it really the right time to abolish the Central Final Test? What problems does the Minister for Schools, the Inspection and the Cito Foundation see if there is longer waiting for the abolition of the Central Final Test? With those questions, I'm making a point. I look forward to answering those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Peters, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Democratic Appeal. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. In order to learn, a child needs enough challenge and a safe place. The learning goal must be reached when he stands on his toes. It is a much-made error of thinking that education should be first and foremost léúk. No, it teaches you things that you couldn't before, and that's fun: the art of success. That gives self-confidence and that presents a challenge. That'll make your world bigger. Good education may not improve inequality of opportunity, but it can raise people up, and it lays the foundation for a pleasant life. And the other way around, it's true. Poor education, lack of challenge, or unattainable high goals, miserable lessons or poor educational climate, is destroying children. That's literally a pain in the school. An appropriate flow of children to secondary education is therefore very important, as is a warm transfer, which, as far as I am concerned, does not stop when transferring a file or entering a new school. As far as I am concerned, it is important that the mentors stay in contact during the first year of school. Is Jantje in the right place now? Why didn't we put Enre on a higher level or another level? How can we help Aisha better? Why does the school advice of the Augustine School always prove to be perfectly appropriate afterwards and that of De Regenboog? Or the other way around? Why are De Vlieger's parents always very satisfied and why aren't De Klimop's again? Or the other way around? The goal is appropriate placement. Regardless of the law, schools could learn much more from each other to do well. Again, the question is: how do we create a learning culture? How do we make things a little better every year? Today we are discussing a bill that takes a next step in improving the process around the transition from primary school to secondary education. That's good, but even without that bill, there's plenty of room for improvement. That space is there to be taken. I'd like a response from the Minister. What is his ability to initiate a learning process here too? Mr. Chairman. About advice and flow... Oh, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm in no hurry. I very much agreed with what Mr Peters said about learning culture and what we can do to stimulate it. Well, the Minister says, among other things in the answer, that it turns out that the pabos do not always dwell separately on the phenomenon of advice. How do you do that well and how do you ensure that you get a child in the best possible place? Does the CDA agree with us that you should just make that part of the standard education as a teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	I fully agree with Mr Kwint and I shall repeat that in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	Then I'm gonna sit down for it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to say about advice and flow. Depending on the hat you put on, you could come to different conclusions. Good primary school teachers are perfectly qualified to advise. Their advice should be guiding at all times. In such a case, a flow-through test as a snapshot is unnecessary and sometimes even counterproductive. On the other hand, there are also teachers who actually make a jar of it. In such a case, you would like a flow-through test to be used to compensate for inappropriate advice. You want to give secondary school schools some time to knit their formation around, but on the other hand you want to make the time that children have after the finals at school holidays as short as possible. There seem to be schools in secondary education that seem to be in the wind with any advice and simply place brutally on the basis of the flow test. All in all, this legislative amendment is taking a next step in an appropriate placement of pupils. It is a nice middle between the different considerations. As far as we're concerned, it's an improvement, but we're not there yet. Not so long ago I found myself... I was the department leader of the underbuilding of the vmbo in Oss. It must have got worse, but even then there was talk of what we then called "upward pressure" from parents who gave their child a Havo or VWO advice and for whom vmbo was actually unspeakable. Apart from the placement, the latter was almost never the case after a conversation and a look at the school. The image parents had just didn't fit in with reality. It's good to invest in that image. The vmbo was and is a beautiful education, where children can flourish. These children will become the professionals of the future. All attention to opportunity inequality is beautiful, of course, and badly needed as well. But it should not lead to the fact that the vmbo, even more than it already is in the imagery, is an education where you should not be. This is unjust and genuinely damaging to the schools, the teachers and, indeed, to the children. Mr. Chairman. As we said in the written round, we support this bill. Already under Rutte II we have worked together with D66 to put the teacher's professionalism first again and to use the final test for which it was once intended. The teacher provides advice based on learning claims from the apprenticeship tracking system, the motivation, intelligence and other personal characteristics of the child, the desire of the parents and any other data and circumstances. In fact, the final test adds little more as a snapshot: at most to reveal and correct unconscious sub-advisation. Late correction and adjustment of the school advice could lead to schools or departments being full. That's great. Mr Segers also said it: then you have a higher school advice to call it even higher and then they don't place you, because the general enrollment time was too far before the final test. This bottleneck is solved by giving all pupils a preliminary school advice from mid-January to the end of January. Next...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	May I interrupt you for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	If I say three more sentences, Mr Van Meenen's interruption is...Afterwards, the final test will be reduced until mid-February and the final school advice will come after the final test, possibly adjusted with a higher Cito score. As a result, all children enrol in high school at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Peters rightly said that we should above all have confidence in the teachers, in the opinion. Of course, we can learn from each other. It's beautiful, all of you. Once upon a time. But now there is an amendment from the VVD. My appreciation for this kind of rough amendments, because that says: not reconsider if there is a higher test result, but simply adjust it. If I understand correctly. Always adjusting, then. That's not new in this discussion. We've had that before. Usually that proposal came from the corner of the PvdA, now from the VVD. So things are happening. But my question to Mr Peters is: how does he look... I could not interrupt Mrs Paul there, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	Then you'll do it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	So I guess I'll just do that to you, see if she can interrupt me on that later. It'll be fun. But I would like to ask Mr Peters how he looks at this amendment now, in the light of what he says about teachers. That amendment actually says: all nice and nice what those opinions have been, but as soon as that test is higher, that's the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	If a good teacher advises well based on all kinds of characteristics, I think that such a final test doesn't add much to that. If it all goes well, and that's what we're gonna assume. That's what we need to learn. The pabos must also pay attention to this and schools must also pay attention to it. That's how I see it. Then I would think that I do not think the amendment is advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	I would like to comment on what Mr Van Meenen said. The amendment refers to "adjust unless." In that sense, a teacher, if he or she thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	Could you speak a little more in the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yeah, sorry. So it is indeed adjusting on the basis of that higher result, unless there are clear, heavy considerations from the teacher not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think they'll do the same if there's reason to adapt and they've seen it wrong. That's how I see it, but okay. This order leads to the best opportunities for children to reach the most appropriate level, but it makes the time for children to have nothing to do at school, a long time. How does the Minister see that? Does he also see the risk that schools will not actually teach seriously after finals? And does he agree with the CDA that children at that time learn things instead of learning, and that this is especially true for children who can't actually have them? As a department leader, I applied for educational support funds for students. One of the things you had to do was picture learning disadvantages. Some children didn't have enough learning retardation to qualify for those funds before the summer, but they did need that help. If I tested them again after the summer, those learning disadvantages turned out to have increased enormously. Does the Minister recognise this picture and, in consultation with the Minister, has he not considered moving both the enrolment and the school advice and the final test further backwards? Formation at secondary education is not a rocket science either and it matters a lot of much needed and actual lessons if it were possible. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We are not in favour of giving the final test a more prominent position when it comes to advice than to changing the school advice and order, for a number of reasons. The motivation for re-establishing the importance of the school advice arose precisely from the discontent about the great importance of the snapshot of the final test and the pressure it places on the children, rather than looking at the multi-annual development of children. It has already been said: the film instead of the picture. In addition, the Cito test was not made to indicate to which level a child should go. It is at most suitable as a second, objective fact in addition to the school advice, to make possible unconscious under-advisation that would affect children of lower or practically educated parents in particular, and that is what we want to combat. Mr. Chairman. Our main reason is that, despite what many parties claim, giving priority to the final test will once again lead to increasing inequality of opportunity. After all, what happened before 2014 and is now less common? There was test training to get the highest score on the final test. Apart from the question of whether it is in the best interests of the child to choose a school only on the basis of a snapshot, we saw that only parents' children who could afford it were on test training. They were therefore more likely to have a higher score than children of practically trained parents who did not have such training. This situation will come back when we give the final test, or flow test as we call it now, priority over the school advice. The CDA believes that the combination of school advice and final exams and the order of events offers the best opportunities for equality in choosing the school level for children. This is also apparent from research, as was shown by the reply to the questions raised by the report. Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers it very important that in recent years a quality report has been made on professionalising advice, and that there has been an awareness campaign in schools on the effects of under-advisation and on the conscious and unconscious mechanisms underlying it. The answer to our questions to the extent to which under-advisation is dealt with by the pabo, I say to Mr Kwint, shows that this is not the case with all pabos, but only with pabos who offer specialization for the older child, and pabos who offer advice within a different specialisation. In the interest of further professionalisation and a better predictive value of advice, the CDA asks the Minister to ensure in conversation with the pabo's that all pabo's under-advisation are adequately addressed. I'm considering a motion on this point. Perhaps something for Mr. Kwint to sign with by then. We'll have him read the motion in advance. Mr. Chairman. In response to our questions in the report, the Minister states that evaluation of the feedback of vo-schools to primary schools on the predictive value of their school advice helps to professionalise the advice. Of course it is, but is there any insight into whether this has any effect? Will schools indeed be able to advise them when there is a trend? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is pleased that, in the light of our questions, the report includes in the first letter of amendment that the competent authority has an active obligation to inform parents about the procedure and further progress of the school advice. It is important that parents know what they can expect when, but also what they can do if they do not agree with the school advice. During the budget debate, the Minister indicated, in response to our questions about the flow of children in secondary schools, to see to what extent schools still have risk-avoidance behaviour. Of course, it has always been bad to deprive a child of opportunities to make the school look better, but now that since 2016 the supervisory framework of the inspection has apparently been adapted so that a child who has received the advice tl-havo, but eventually ends up in the third class on the theoretical learning path, no longer as negative, but as neutral, then there is no reason to do so at all. Can the Minister give us an update on this? Mr. Chairman. We have some concerns about the concentration of tasks at the CvTE and the position of the Cito and Cito BV Foundation. In reply to our questions, the Minister states that the Review and Examination Board is better placed to carry out the concentration of tasks. Experts of the Cito can support and the Minister remains ultimately responsible. But what's it gonna look like in practice? Can the Minister explain this further? I think I see a grey area, but perhaps I am mistaken and the concentration of tasks and powers does not create undesirable uniformity via a detour, for example because of the desired comparability of tests. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the final test. That may be more now, but how do we monitor the quality of all these tests? So that's what we have a college for. If that concludes that a test is not right, can they ban it? Or should the inspection take care of that? Is that gonna go through the judge? Is the Minister taking over? I can read by it, but I don't think it's in the law. So I see that gray area. That's why I'd like to comment on it. Does the Minister not wish to extend the powers of the CvTE without involving the Chamber? I am also considering a second-term motion on this point and on my previous point on uniformity. Could the Expert Group Keys PO play another role as an independent expert group alongside the Cito? I told you, Chairman, in order to learn, a child needs enough challenge and a safe place. The learning goal must be reached when he stands on his toes. It is a common mistake that education should be fun in the first place. No, education teaches you things you couldn't before, and that's fun. It's about the art of success; I told you so. That gives self-confidence and that presents a challenge. That'll make your world bigger. Good education doesn't completely eliminate inequality of opportunity, but it does raise people, and that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you for your input. Mrs Westerveld has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	My question to Mr Peters is how he assesses the second part of the law, which actually states that it is no longer necessary to offer that flow test by the government, but by private parties. I beat him a little bit, but does he also think that the role of the government in this is no longer necessary, because the market can do it? Or does he see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	I don't really want to see it in terms of market or government, that way. That's not such a big issue for me. I see it more as the choice that a school has for a student tracking system and ultimately also a Cito key, sorry, a final key, you can hear me making the same mistake or a flow-through key that is just right. I have no objection in principle to having it done by the market or by the government alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u44	No, but that is of course part of the law: that the government no longer has to offer it, because the market can. I understand that Mr Peters may not think this is such an issue, but it is part of the law that we will have to vote on later. I hear he's got his back on that law. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and me which proposes something else. I'm just very curious to see how Mr Peters of the CDA looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u45	I just support the law as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u46	May I ask one more question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u47	Certainly, Mrs Westerveld, you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u48	We have had more discussions here in the Chamber about the increase in private education in public education. We see that there are more and more tests. We were just talking about teaching to the test. You can also just teach children to score as well as possible on the finals. Does Mr Peters agree with me and a large part of the Chamber that this is a risky development and that it increases inequality? We know which children take advantage of this kind of private offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u49	I very much agree with that. I think teaching to the test is just harmful for a lot of reasons, because a child does not come to the place where it would belong and it increases the odds. That is, of course, a problem that has always been there, and I would like to say to Mrs Westerveld that this law does not add to it. I don't think such a flow-through test as a snapshot should have the role he's getting in the eyes of some people. If it's right, the school advice should be based on what a child has been showing for years, what he can do, what his motivation is, what he wants and what his parents want. It must be based on all kinds of child factors and not just on a final test. That is also a bit the answer I just gave to Mr Van Meenen. That's how I see it. Such a flow test is then a next objective given, but also really no more than that in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think I'm very much in agreement with that. I just want to get back to the point before. The CDA says: I don't care very much whether it's being offered by the government or commercially, or whether we're using the hybrid system we have now. But do you not think that if we make something legally mandatory, then we as a government have the task of guaranteeing something, at least to ensure that a form of final test remains available, and that we should also have a direct influence on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yes, but if I understand correctly, Mr Kwint sees the risk that there would be no proper market players who would or could do so, that in that case we would have a very big problem, because there would be no proper flow test, and that the government would have to take care of something. I think that risk is either zero or practically zero. Maybe the Minister sees it differently. If the Minister's answer were "I see that risk and I do want a flow test," you would be right. But I just don't see that risk. I think that's almost zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u52	The honest answer is in my opinion: apart from the fact that the chance is indeed not very great that they all stop at the same time, you make yourself dependent on it. In addition, we just don't know a whole lot about the stability, quality and comparability of that test. As Mr Segers pointed out in his term, these things have just arrived. There is also a year in which there has been no final test, and yet it is already decided to delete the guarantee of the Cito test facilitated by the government. Don't you think that's very soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, there are reasons to do that. And yes, that's fast. Mr Segers also asked very clearly. I would like an answer from the Minister. It must have been secured; I totally agree with Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u54	I am so sorry that I hear Mr Peters, who also has an education background, now go along in that left-wing frame of teaching to the test. I do not understand why that should always be said in English. I was just saying as a teacher, we're gonna practice for the exam. That was a lot of fun for students. It gave them confidence. I made those exams myself, in a national working group and all that. That was perfect. They went with the full self-esteem that makes exams. All this can't be done anymore, because all this is now being put on that political sign of inequality of opportunity and teaching to the test. "Then that test won't be worth a damn." You as a teacher must understand that they are completely empty, empty cries of D66 and all those left-wing people who want to hang everything on that Christmas tree of equality of opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u55	Of course, I've been a teacher too, and you're preparing kids for their exams. It's that easy. I do not call that "teaching to the test"; I just call that "exam preparation." And indeed, they like it and like it. It's necessary, too. I don't want commercial agencies training kids from parents who can afford that, so those kids are gonna be in a place where they don't belong at all. In that context, I said what I said. I told you, I don't think such a final, such a flow test, should have that role that many people do. I didn't necessarily want to get into a left frame, but I just wanted to explain how I'm looking at that old Cito key.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u56	Still, it's a left-hand frame. What if parents are so motivated to support their children in their education career? The problem isn't that those desks are there. The problem is, these schools are failing. Why would you almost forbid these parents from hiring extracurricular expertise to prepare children for those exams? 'Cause that's where it's going. Why don't we just say, let these parents, we have to make sure schools do that themselves and that they don't need to hire that expertise anymore? That's what we're here for, isn't it? We're not here to ban these parents from buying that, are we? I think that's a bit far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u57	I don't want to forbid anyone. I just want to say that I don't think practicing for a Cito test, learning a trick to a child without really having the knowledge underneath is the way to get to a suitable place. That's what I wanted to say. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Bertema that a great deal of tutoring and education outside the school is what Mrs Westerveld called it again with a beautiful word. It would not be necessary at all if we were to do much better in schools for what we are on earth. I fully agree with you on that. I think that's kind of my core message in every contribution I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u58	Finally. You and all the people here have butter on their heads. We have all applied in our career for high-level jobs that should be covered by assessments. You all bought those books to see how an assessment works and how you get through it best. Those are the facts. We just don't want to deny those kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u59	Finally, Mr President. Luckily, I haven't done a lot of assessments. I've never read a book like that. But I would also say: such a snapshot really doesn't tell me who I am, any more than the Cito final test did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Peters, for your input and for answering the interruptions. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr De Hoop on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that this morning we also have the opportunity to make a left-wing speech about inequality of opportunity. I hope that Mr Beertema will enjoy it. Mr. Chairman. Good education enables you to develop your talent and discover who you are, what you can do and how to make your dreams a reality. Children develop in different ways and at different rates. Besides, they don't all start with an equal start either. That doesn't have to be a problem if you give children enough time and space to develop, but in the current education system this is just not the case. In the Netherlands it is very early selected for the type of secondary education in no less than seven different directions, from practical education to VWO. Already at the age of 11 you find yourself in such a booth, a kind of tar machine that you cannot easily get out of as a child. That's what we do when we don't have kids. In addition, this causes a lot of stress in both children and parents and teachers. This makes the Labour Party a great advocate for a broad junior level, so that as a child you only receive a final school advice after the second grade of secondary school. Delaying the selection moment gives children more time to develop and spend longer together in the classroom. The legislative proposal now before us on the flow tests regulates the bottlenecks in the procedure, the timetable for school advice and the transition of the p.o. It is also important to ensure that the system of examinations for pupils and follow-up systems for primary education is more clearly defined. The idea would be that this change could help improve the equality of opportunity for pupils. In that respect, I fully agree with the metaphor Mr Van Meenen used today about the car you're repairing, while it's better to buy a whole new car now and then. Unfortunately, of course, that is not going to work today and that we need to assess this bill. It is arranged that all pupils from group 8 apply simultaneously to a secondary school. For example, students who receive higher school advice on the basis of the final test will also have a fair chance to register for the vo-school at the same time. That's a good thing. Schools are obliged to reconsider school advice if the student makes the test better. If the school decides to deviate from the test, it must be properly justified. However, examination of the inspection showed that one in three schools recognised that it had not reconsidered any advice this year. A great concern for the Labour Party concerns the private parties that offer flow tests for which primary schools can choose instead of the Cito test. Primary schools have been allowed to do so since Mr Rog and Mrs Schouten's amendment in 2014. As far as the Minister is concerned, that remains the case. The Labour Party finds this difficult, because the Cito Foundation has the legal task of developing the Central Final Test on assignment and under the direction of the College for Keys and Exams. At the same time, with the role of private parties, the government is also dependent on these parties. Comparability of tests is also at risk, as Mr Kwint just outlined. This is at odds with the constitutional responsibility of the government for quality education. The Minister's reaction in the note to the report did not remove that concern from the Labour Party. Another point that we are faced with is that the decision on Caribbean Examinations Council, CXC, is too non-binding. The clustering of subjects shall correspond to the profiles in secondary education in order to ensure flow possibilities as well. This is extremely important for secondary school pupils who wish to continue their training after certification in European countries, such as the Netherlands. The decision to switch to the educational establishment and examinations of the CXC releases the establishment and examinations of the Dutch system. The CXC has no profiles. The decision allows schools to cluster within the framework of the decision boxes in such a way that they correspond to the profiles. It's not mandatory. That means something like: figure it out yourself on the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u62	I would like to thank Mr De Hoop very much for his passionate left-wing speech. At least that worked! I'm just chewing on the responsibility of the government for providing such a flow test. If I listen carefully to Mr De Hoop, he concludes, on the basis of the constitutional obligation of the government, that the government is actually the only designated party to carry out the flow test and that the government cannot invest it in the market or in other bodies. I would like to explain this further, and I would like to make one further comment. A government that ensures that the conditions under which the market comes to a diverse offer, is not simply fulfilling its constitutional obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u63	Either you took it too sharply or I said it too clearly. My problem is that I expect to see this, and so I have to worry that by making this possible with those private parties, the legal task we have to have the comparability of tests and to maintain quality is at risk. That's because you're leaning on those private parties that you don't have the influence on like a central review system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u64	I get that. Only, if you then instruct the Committee on Verification and Examination to supervise and stamp that, that problem will be solved. That is what I believe this proposal provides for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u65	I doubt that, and the Minister has not taken that concern away from us. In fact, we will probably table a motion in the second term to simply demolish those private parties out of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u66	I shall look forward to that motion in tense anticipation. I have another point, and that is that comparability. Mr De Hoop attaches this to the legal obligation of the government, but do you not claim too much on that government? There is no legal provision or legal provision that such tests should be comparable. In fact, what are the keys for? They serve to determine the child's level and development perspective. You can't use these tests to compare schools. That's the big mistake of thinking behind making it comparable. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u67	No, I don't agree with you. In fact, I think that this kind of private scrutiny will only increase the inequality of opportunity in education. It is simply a fundamental difference between the SGP and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr De Hoop continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u69	I will indeed continue my speech. I was at Caribbean Netherlands. My questions to the Minister on this point are: how do you look at them and are you prepared to adapt the CXC Decision so that the graduates can be sure of the opportunities for further education in the European Netherlands? If not, we are also considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The Labour Party sees that the inequality of opportunity in education is frighteningly great. It is precisely in places where education can make a big difference in children's lives that this problem is also the greatest. If we really need to change that, then next to this bill, if it gets a majority at all, a radical change will have to come, giving you as a child time to find out who you are and what you can do. Children's education should no longer serve as a sorting machine or obstacle course, but as a bouncy cushion, so that every child can make his dream a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Van Meenen. He speaks on behalf of Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. My heartfelt congratulations to my colleague Paul for her wonderful personal maiden speech, in which she always links her own history and life story to the subject she is allowed to speak about in this Chamber. That's always good, because it's a nice personal story, but also because it's a nice subject that we're discussing here: education. Much more important, you're not gonna find it in this country. So my heartfelt congratulations. You mentioned "Punt," but I will never forget that I was more touched by Miss Tilly, the one who, when she was a little miss Paul, took her hand and accompanied her to her place. Why does that get to me? Because today's subject is actually about that, because even when you're 11, or 12, you actually still need one of those hands that puts you in your place. 'Cause how exciting is it for kids to go to high school, huh? And we have come up with a system in which there is actually far too little that hand of such a teacher Tilly who points you to your place, where everything is still open - because that's how it is in primary school: your whole future is still open. And we have already cut off a very important part of that in the way we do the selection for secondary education. That future is no longer open. Okay, Mr. Chairman, on this beautiful maiden speech. Every child deserves the best chance of good education, the chance to pursue your dream, develop your talents, despite the neighbourhood where you were born, the level of education of your parents. But unfortunately, at the moment, that is not a reality for every student. Today we are talking about the flow of primary education to secondary education, but actually we should talk about the fact that we are selecting far too early in the Netherlands. That is why I look at this law with mixed feelings. For despite the purpose of this law, the objective of promoting equality of opportunity, I do not believe that this objective is actually achieved. For as far as D66 and others are concerned, we have already said that we need to work on real equal opportunities solutions, by treating the transition from primary school to secondary school as a continuous line, so that the future of young people, of children, is not chiseled in stone at the age of 12 years. D66 therefore wants a later selection, including broader bridge classes. I also liked the suggestion from Mr Segers to work much more with double advice, something we also want in the NPO. But we are actually standing here looking a little powerless and asking if the Minister might be so kind as to ask for it in secondary education. In the end, that is what we are going to do; if we really want to do that, we have to do it. But that's also a thought, especially as long as the vo still looks the way it looks now. And to my great surprise that metaphor has not yet been mentioned by others, so I may use my own metaphor again: the shufflebox, which is the secondary education, must definitely go to the attic, so that children can no longer get stuck in a booth, but can take all the chances to get there with what suits them best. But we are not going to settle that today; others have already said that. So let me start positively, despite my reservations about the law: as far as my group is concerned, there is one very good proposal in this law, namely that in future all children can apply at the same time. At the time, I was also there in 2014, 2015, I believe that we were also working on this whole transition, and then said: we should actually make that teacher's advice heavier; let's put that test backwards, and that also wins teaching time. Because until then everyone started practicing for the musical in February; that's what it really came down to, huh? So let's win education time, that's good for all kids too, so we take that test backwards, and if the kid gets a high result, there can be a review. This is a very interesting amendment from the VVD, which has already been passed several times, but the effect is that there have actually been two reporting moments. Those who receive a revised advice will really have less chance of getting into the school of their choice. That is what this bill is trying to do, but as far as I am concerned it is precisely in the wrong way, namely not by pushing the advice backwards, which could have been done, but by pushing the test forward again. That's gonna give you more time for the musical. It's all very nice, but I'd rather have more time for education and equality of opportunity. Although this, that one central moment, as far as I am concerned, is the only good part of the law, I would prefer to see it differently, namely further backwards. What is mentioned in its feasibility is at the heart of this approach. Let's compare it. We now have a central registration moment for universities: May 1. You can't even sign up before. Then there must be some things to do before that transition, but we just do it all together and it happens. For the MBO, that is, to my surprise, April 1st. I think it would be a good idea to turn that into 1 May too, but that has not yet been achieved. For some reason, the pressure from the MBO is greater. I don't know why, but it seems that there is a need for more time. Now there's pressure from the vo. They say, I say in my words: no, we have to have all the time to put the children in their booth as best they can. That's actually what we're doing right now. I'd say, well, there's every reason to give as little time as possible to the vo to put them in a booth. Then there's only time to put them in more broad bridge classes. Let's think about that. Although the point of the central login moment is very appealing to me, that's very good. I'd rather see that it's later. If we can settle that here, I have nothing else to do with this law. Nothing else is being arranged that I'm after. Some sensible things have already been said about the Cito. I wonder what the Minister thinks of the double role of the Cito in this proposal. Will they assess market players' tests together with the CvTE? The Cito also offers training courses, so that students score better at the finals. How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. Recently I spoke to Karen Heij, who wrote a dissertation on the final test and the apprenticeship follow-up system. The conclusion of her thesis is that the final test and the apprenticeship follow-up system both contribute to inequality of opportunity, inter alia by comparing pupils, rather than looking at what the student can do individually. Take the apprenticeship tracking system. Ordering students doesn't start at the end of elementary school. No, that starts way before that, from third grade. When a child is 6 years old, it is told that it fits into a particular booth. "You're good at math: you're an A. Language is bad. There you are, an "E." At the end of the eighth grade, children actually believe that they are such an E'tje. That is detrimental to their self-confidence and it also works as a self-fulfilling prophecy. Ah! Finally, there he is. I thought, "I'm gonna make more left-wing talk to get that Beertema out of his chair." And I did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's like D66's keeping some kind of "rant" here. What I understand is... I think it's a bit of a confusing argument. I also don't understand whether D66 is going to vote for or against that law. It's still unclear. But when it comes to the nature of education, about what is characteristic for education, I hear from Mr. Van Meenen that you can no longer identify and discriminate, in the sense of distinction. There must be no more A's or B's. And damn it, he's done it to get rid of all the tests in a couple of years. The kindergarten test, the final test and the Cito test had to be done. The final test had to be done. It's gone now. We're gonna wear it today. You put the perfect connection to the rest of it: the broad bridge classes, as it is now so beautifully called. But it's just middle school. The determination, the postponement of execution, I'll say, is pushed forward to the age of 14 or 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u73	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u74	My question is: are you pleased that at the age of 14, 15, the practical students no longer have time to learn a profession and have had to survive the potential gymnasiums for three years in a hostile environment, both physically and mentally, and then continue to be severely frustrated? Why don't you answer that? What's the point of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u75	It's a whole story that contains a lot of inaccuracies. There's only one test that's actually been abolished by me and a few others here and that's the math test. That's the abominable, horrible math test that actually says: you don't have to be able to count until the end of high school. Idiot! We are not putting any energy into better computational education, no, Mr Beertema has been advocating this for years. Well, luckily he was killed. A kindergarten test never existed. There's never been a central kindergarten test. The schools lived on that assumption. So we didn't abolish it, we just made it clear that it was never there. Then the final test. I was at the cradle of the proposal we are now dealing with in 2014. For the first time, the final test is mandatory. I did. And that exam is still there. I haven't changed anything about that either, and I don't want to change anything about that either. I'd like to see more customization possible for students. So anything Mr Beertema puts me on the spot when it comes to tests, I am far from it. As far as the transition to secondary education is concerned, I do believe that we are selecting far too early, that we are telling a child who he is when he is 11 years old. It's just too soon. We're not an island. If you look around us: all kinds of very decent countries where children are going to have a good future, select later, for the children for which it is not yet clear. I'm not a supporter of middle school. I'm not arguing for a three-year-old junior class for every student. I've already given you a copy of my book, but apparently you haven't read it yet. You really should read that book sometime. It's also about customization. Of course, there are children who, when they are 11, are perfectly clear where they can go, but let us also do that customization and let us not say: no, for all children we are going to tell them what their future is going to be. We shouldn't do that. It does injustice to children. I'm sorry for the long answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u76	But I'm going to end it too, because Mr. Beertema has already used four interruptions. This discussion is also broader than this law. I see you're both enjoying that, but we don't have time to carry it forward now. Mr Beertema may return to it in the second term, but you will continue and conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u77	We're both sorry about that, but okay, it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u79	That was probably our last exchange of views in this room, Mr. Beertema. Yeah, it's something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u80	Meekness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the self-fulfilling prophecy of selection at a young age. Moreover, you already know in advance how many students go to a high, middle and low level through this system. If all students perform better, the distribution remains exactly the same. To speak in mathematical terms, it happens to be my profession: it's a "zero sum game." You can climb into our system but if you climb, another will fall, because the distribution is fixed in advance. And that stands in the way of equality of opportunity. We are not going to solve that either today, but my question to the Minister is whether he has read that dissertation and what he thinks of Karen Heij's conclusion. Is he of the opinion that the system as it is now is wider than Karen Heij's dissertation is really in need of much more improvement than this law now regulates? Finally. The only good thing about this law is that there will be a central registration moment for the vo. That is actually the purpose of this law, bringing advice and test closer together, so that that central registration moment would then arise. That is what this law has been designed for, but now the law has the effect of putting everything forward. I think we should leave this law for what it is. Let us conclude here that we are working towards a moment, for example 1 May or 15 May, and that is all we are doing. So as a thought experiment I say here: let's settle what's needed, so that login moment as late as possible in that group 8-year, no more and no less than that. As far as I am concerned, we are going to work as quickly as possible on real solutions, on a system that works for all children where they all have an equal chance of having that bright future. And in the meantime, it is important that in the system as it is now, that login moment is in any case arranged. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you for your input. There is an interruption by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u83	However, in my absence as a new spokesperson of education on behalf of my group, I would like to say the following. I hear Mr Van Meenen talking about high, middle and low. Following Mr Beertema's interruption, is it not a question of getting people in place, of young people being able to develop their talents, wherever that is? Then it's not about high, middle or low with the assumption that high is the best and low would be something very bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u84	Exactly. But I mentioned high, middle and low in my text as the very effect of our current system, so I condemned it. In that connection, I mentioned it. I think I have also given you the book I wrote about equality of opportunity. I understand that this has not yet been completely memorized, but I am not talking about vmbo, havo and vwo anymore. In the words we use in our education, apart from high, middle and low, we have a very clear definition of "higher" and "lower." I talk about practical, professional, professional and academic education. I would like students to be given much more opportunities than they are now to make their choices, depending on their talents. In the current system, you're supposed to do everything at that one level. If you don't get all the way, you're going to go for everything to a......................................................................................................................................................................... I'd like to get rid of all that. That's gonna take a hell of a lot. We agree 100% that these words should no longer be mentioned in this Chamber, but that will only happen if they are no longer in our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'm kind of looking for the synthesis anyway. Maybe that didn't work out between you and Mr. Beertema. Indeed, I have advocated such a multiple opinion, because that still leaves the room somewhat open. I know about my own kids. You need to figure out where someone ends up. Of course, they can also be potential gymnasists or people who really want to work with their hands. You're gonna want them in place soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u87	So the endless delay of that choice doesn't strike me as the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u88	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u89	But it's about offering space to students who need it. If it is true that the choice still needs to be postponed, that is fine. But let everyone find their place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u90	I couldn't agree more. Again, I refer to that little book. I have just said it to Mr Bertema: I am not standing here as a prophet of middle school, not at all. I am not standing here as someone who says: every child must end up in a three-year bridge period. No. I'll give you the example of practice school instead of the gymnasium. With the children who go to practice school, it is really clear at 11 that you don't like them anymore with all kinds of academic education. I do advocate that we do not separate these children from all the other children. Why shouldn't we try a lot more to keep kids together? For the summer holidays they are still together and after the holiday they never see each other again, depending on their advice. How nice it would be to arrange a meeting on all kinds of subjects. Take citizenship, for example, but you can also think of gymnastics and art courses. In the Newsuur documentary about corona, about vaccinations, you just saw the difference in experience between children. How nice would it be if you had the discussion about that with all those kids together? But that is not possible in our education at all, because we have separated them all very neatly from each other in that shufflebox. That's what I'm looking for. So I'm not looking for some four-year-old grey knit that's gonna kill everyone. So Mr Beertema and I are much closer together, but he just likes to pretend to be a supporter of middle school every time. But I'm not, Mr. Beertema. I never have been. And we remember what it is! So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u91	Good. Thank you for your input and for answering the questions. The next speaker will be Mr Bertema, who will speak on behalf of the Party for Freedom. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. My compliments, too, to Mrs Paul. It was an impressive story. For me it was a really nice story of education that provides upliftment and emancipation. At that time, as far as I am concerned, that was even more common and self-evident than it is today. Welcome, indeed, to the permanent Chamber of Education Committee. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, we are discussing the amendment of a number of educational laws aimed at improving the so-called inequality of opportunity for pupils. That equality of opportunity has become the new dogma. Politics has done that very well. But come on, we'll get back to that another time. This legislative proposal therefore focuses on the flow of primary education to secondary education and the system of testing in the p.o. The legislative proposal aims to remove bottlenecks in the procedure and in the time frame around advice, testing and the transition of p.o. to vo. I would like to say before Mr Van Meenen walks out of the Chamber that those bottlenecks that are now being resolved would never have been there if we had left that unsavory Cito test alone and had established a clear final level of primary education. That's what we've been fighting for for ten years. I have dressed a little nicely today, because I also consider this a bit like a eulogy: we are now wearing the final test on the ground. Today we hit the last nail in the coffin of the Central Final Test, because for inexplicable reasons we will no longer talk about the "end test" but about the performance-neutral "flow test." That semantics, that eternal semantics! Nor should we talk about higher education or lower education. Okay, I'm talking about "practical" and "theoretic" education myself, but it's semantics. It doesn't change anything for those students, nor for the equality of opportunity. It only gives that warm feeling in the political hearts of all those politicians here that they use the right words. That's the hypocrisy at the top. Anyway, it's the last nail in the coffin from the central final. It's become the flow test. The explanatory statement suggests that the name of the final test may unintentionally give the impression that "unintentional" too; horribly so that this marks the end of the continuous learning line. Who would think of something like that? Who's the official in the department who comes up with this? I really don't understand that. It would also lead to additional performance pressure. Well, that's a frame of a very questionable level. Who believes this nonsense, all this semantics? This kind of thinking only invites victims, because no matter how you turn it or turn it: that test continues to mark the end of your time in primary school, an important moment. The pressure to perform also remains, because every child wants to make that final test or flow-through key or whatever you want it to be sugarcoat, as well as possible. And that's the way it should be. Education, Mr. Van Meenen, is performance, is determination. It is discriminatory in the sense of: making a distinction. Then it's about uplifting and emancipating. Mr. Chairman. During the AO Final key p.o. and transition p.o. and vo of June 2019, we have expressed our concerns about the advice of the Educational Publishing Group to put an end to the exemption position of the Central Final Test. The publishing company itself argued that the failure of the Expert Group Keys PO, which resulted in 11% of the total number of students receiving incorrect test advice, was due to the Cito's exemption position. Fucking crazy. We are two years away and the Group's wish for educational publishing has become law. Well, we're breaking down the Central Finals today. My question is: how is it possible that a random publishing house of school books and tests has so much influence on the department, on the directors and on the permanent chamber committee for OCW, that they will achieve this wish, which has been commercially invested, in a few years? I don't understand. I would like to call on educational journalism and Follow the Money to dive into this: dive into this. What kind of weird trajectory has this been? Now we are dealing with a new permanent chamber committee, with new spokesmen who do not yet have very much knowledge of education and who are in fact without memory about the preliminaries, where the introduction of a final standard for primary education, which is not there, is definitely being overturned. My assessment is that all those interested parties who do not necessarily want a uniform final level of education and who, especially the VMBO, pose almost insoluble problems, have been waiting for this moment, when the cabinet is outgoing and there is a fresh green committee, to push this disastrous decision through. This is a decision which, once it has taken effect, can no longer be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u93	It is always a relief to hear Mr Beertema make a glowing speech about the Cito test, especially when you realize that this is a kind of state test that is imposed on the schools. But if you look at the figures and then find that about half of the schools opt for a test compiled by a commercial provider, which in itself is nothing wrong with it, does Mr Beertema agree with me that he disqualifies that half of the schools, which 50% of the schools, are very easily disqualified and put in the corner because they do not choose the Cito?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u94	I don't disqualify those schools. Those schools seize the opportunity because there is that possibility. As far as I'm concerned, there wouldn't have been that possibility. The Cito has been a wonderful institution and the Cito test has done, evidence-based, incredibly good work. It was indeed an attempt to map once the uniform final level of primary education. It was about testing knowledge and skill. I understand that the CDA, as well as you and the Christian Union, are those long toes when it comes to Article 23 of the Treaty on European Union that have drawn directly to the freedom of education. Is that what you do in driving exams? The driving test is only teaching to the test: that's just practicing, that's just automating. I never hear of that, that there should be a driving test on a Christian-reformed basis or something. That comparison isn't that crazy. We're talking about cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Bishop, you've used your fourth interruption, so you may return to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u96	You're tough, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yes. Mr Beertema continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we pass this law, it's unrecoverable. If you still want to run it or improve it, then the cabinets that are on the buttons get it very hard. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that we have always been very much in favour of the mandatory nature of the final test. This undervalued Cito test gave the secondary education, the children and the parents an objective insight into the development of the student after eight years of primary education. The PVV had and has no objection to that Cito test, but we had to adapt something that has been proven for decades, that was evidencebased, if necessary. Why don't you think about it? What's going to solve this bill? It's just gotten more chaotic, more inconvenient. There's been a test moment, for God's sake. It is the result of the incorrigible leveling urge not to distinguish pupils first and foremost, and wrapped in that woeful sauce of so-called performance pressure, and the hurt that would come with it. This now means that there is not only no hard final level of primary education, but that the final determination of the pupil is even pushed forward, like a hot potato, to secondary education in the form of that unholy mid-school experiment, which I cannot call so, but I will do Mr Van Meenen a favor, that three-year-old secondary school which has already been decided upon. Especially not to determine, especially not to distinguish until the age of 14-, 15-year-olds I have just explained it to Mr.Van Meenen after which those practical vmbos no longer have time to learn a profession. This is going to be very difficult, and the potential gymnasists have been bored for three years and have had to survive in a street culture-like environment where they often don't belong. That is the big picture that has been achieved with this. Stichting Cito has become an insignificant club, which should only show up to share the psychometric and educational expertise with the CvTE in the decision-making process of allowing the student tracking systems and the tests and final tests - sorry, flow tests, I hope I didn't hurt anyone. While the Cito Foundation has taken adequate care of this since 1968. Mr. Chairman. In our view, the Council of State rightly states that the problems for pupils with a revised opinion are, in a sense, exaggerated. They say that very decent: it is about 1%, then you cannot say that that is a massive problem. Nor does the Council of State say that inequality of opportunity is at the root of this. In addition, it is a huge demonstration of political impotence not to adequately tackle a shortage of popular vo-schools and to ensure that there are more popular for-schools. Why are there so few? That's what we're here for. Okay. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, inequality of opportunity is an empty political term, which has already been coined by left-wing parties, under the direction of NPO66, a term that explains nothing, which does not solve anything at all and to which very large, valuable parts of education will be sacrificed. Because inequality of opportunity, President-in-Office, you know something about it, with your past in development work and so on exists; opportunity inequality exists in life; life is a bitch. That's life, that's art, but then it's unbelievable when the great equalizer is using it, which is less and less the case. That saddens me extremely much. Mr. Chairman. A number of parties, including the PO Council, our friends from the Education Council and the CPB, which are not the least of them, rightly argue that the final test should be taken again prior to the school advice. That was our idea. In this way you unconsciously avoid the prejudices that affect girls and immigrants in particular. We have fought for this and we are glad that the unions are finally behind us, only Mr Van Meenen has not yet, but they will never admit that, because everyone is in, except for the PVV. And that rhymes, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yes. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mind if I finish up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u101	I'll let you, if Mr. Kwint will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u102	The PVV Group recognizes her loss, and it's hard for me to say that. Ten years of struggle to achieve a hard final level of primary education, ten years of struggle to maintain the old Cito test, has only resulted in the absence of a hard cut between the p.o. and vo, that the final test is reduced to a vague flow advice, supposedly in the context of continuous growth, with the moment of truth being pushed forward to 14-, 15-year-old. And so at the end of the night, no one is responsible. So we're gonna have to postpone execution. This law is against everything we've been advocating for ten years. It will create more chaos and uncertainty than we have ever thought possible. We shall therefore vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you for your input. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u104	As far as I am concerned, Mr Bertema is right in his speech to praise the emancipation of education: the upliftment. That's what he's doing, and I think there's good points for that. At the same time, he is very opposed to what is called "opportunity equality." Maybe I misunderstand him, but I think it leads to something else, doesn't it? It is precisely the emancipatory nature of education, the ability to elevate, that ensures that children, pupils, later in their lives have equal opportunities? I think you're putting down another contradiction that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u105	I do not quite understand the meaning of your question. We assume, like all the sober people in the Netherlands, that there is inequality of opportunity. I've just explained it to the chairman. Chance inequality began in paradise, with Adam and Eve. Who picked that apple? No, that's lame. But odds are there, Mr. Chairman. We should not pretend to be in a situation where everyone has the same opportunities. That's not necessarily true. Education should therefore not attract such large pants that it does indeed pretend that it does. The task of education is to identify and act on which children have great opportunities or small opportunities. You have to measure that. Measuring is knowing. Then you're going to teach the pupils from the lower-income groups, the children from the disadvantaged families, quality education, for example with a didactical of direct instruction, where you initially take children by hand and train them and transfer knowledge. Knowledge, knowledge, knowledge: that's what it's all about. Automate. Drilling. Exams. Practice for the exam. That's how I did it for 34 years. I've been dragging Turkish girls through exams with language disadvantages of years, which most of my colleagues wouldn't even get through now, when it comes to couples, spelling, style and that sort of thing. It's possible, but you have to work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u106	Your answer is clear. Mr Kwint also asked his fourth question. The ideological debate on equality and inequality can be continued in the second term. Mr Peters still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u107	First, because I always enjoy someone who says "semantics isn't for me" and then comes up with this wonderful story. The irony is nice. Actually, I'm largely in agreement with the story. Yeah, odds are there. The only thing we can do is to teach, measure the quality and ensure that the children reach the highest level possible. That kind of instruction you call, of course, is just right: first, then act together and then imitate. It's really not that complicated. I just don't understand, if we all do, how you come to the conclusion that the one final test depends on what the level of the child is. I don't understand the build-up. Could you clarify that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u108	That final test, and especially the Cito test, has obviously become far too important; I agree with you. I knew that institute well, and I thought it was a great institution. The answer was: then we abolish him, or we make the advice lead. We knew that. I find that incomprehensible. I also think that this is incomprehensible from the point of view of politics. We have such a beautiful Cito test and such a beautiful institute, with so much expertise, international expertise and national expertise. Then you notice something like this and say: well, well, then we're going to make that Cito test much less important. Why don't you think: this is a jewel? There's a few things wrong with it. We're going to improve it in small steps and we're going to make sure that the whole culture around the Cito test gets a little less. It's all possible. We could move something into logistics. Those are soluble problems. But what do we do? We are actually abolishing the Cito test, because the advice was leading. That's what all those talented immigrant students and those girls knew, because they were under-advised and then we have to fix that again! That's a lot of difficult problems to fix. I do not understand that, as soon as a problem is identified in education, there is a whole horde of innovators and thinkers and I do not know, everything wants to do differently. That "always want everything different" is such a shame! We had wonderful education. We've known how to teach kids how to read for hundreds of years. But now we have all these great thinkers and educational innovators...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u109	But it is also true that "in der Beschränkung says himself to the Meister"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u110	...and is it that 24% of 15-year-olds...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u111	You need to be a little more concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u112	... is semi-alphabite, and that is a disgrace, chairman, for a country like the Netherlands. Those are the problems I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u113	Period. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u114	The joke is that I totally agree with that, too. That's the point! It is scandalous that we allow so many children to leave school as functional illiterate. It is scandalous that 66% do not meet the target in the area of mathematics. And it is also bad that these elementary school advices are often not good enough, but we have to do something about that! I'm interested in teacher quality in those schools. I really don't think that depends on a test we take somewhere. The point is that there is a culture in these schools that says on one, two and three that these children must learn something and that we can follow and see the whole child and then give a balanced opinion. That's the point. You put it all up on that final, like that's the problem. The problem is that we just don't have the right order in those schools. We should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u115	Of course, I agree with the CDA. But the reality is, of course, that there is no final level of primary education. You can't fail the elementary school exam. I wish! Then we could do again what used to be the seventh grade. Then we could now enter the ninth grade for the children who were not yet ready. But no, what do we do? We're not doing anything! We pass them on like a hot potato to Mr. Van Meenen's three-year-old junior class. Nothing's been determined. That's got to be three years together. There are students with huge linguistic disadvantages, for example. In the VMBO in Rotterdam I have often said it... they received students with a language disadvantage of two or three years. You won't find out until Christmas. Those children were disabled for the rest of their lives because of the failure of that primary school and then because of the failure of the VMBO, socially. They can't live their dreams anymore. That's the problem we're facing, and that's why I'm saying that elementary school's final level should have been tough a long time ago, because then you know what. Then you know it's not so much about burning down students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u116	You have given your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u117	It's about giving those students opportunities for their own future!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u118	Very clear. Thank you for your input and for your comprehensive response to the interruptions. We will proceed to Mr Bishop, who will speak on behalf of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr President, thank you very much. If you're looking at the educational country, at least that's what happened to me. Thinking of Holland, I see wide rivers slowly passing through infinitely lowland. We all received that phrase at school and in the case of Mr Beertema, I suppose. A typification of our country, but it could also be an impression of the Dutch educational country. Yet not everything is always slow and slow and steady. You sometimes see rapids, too. Now take the finals we're talking about. In 2015, the Cito test was an undisputed dominant factor. And in the treatment of the Final Test Act, the possibility of alternative final tests was severely fought, to the sorrow of fellow Bertema, but it was very much the question what would come of those alternatives. And what's five years later? In the meantime 50% of schools use an alternative test and the government proposes to take the Central Final Test off the stage. The SGP could not have done that in 2015. But the SGP can follow the government very well. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I focus on two points: the flow test and the apprenticeship follow-up system. First of all, the flow-through test. It is a good idea to speak instead of a final test about a flow-through test, precisely because the choice of a given level should remain open for as long as necessary. The SGP also considers it an excellent idea to ensure that the transition procedure does not unduly create unequal opportunities. This can be designed in an excellent way within the existing system, as long as you make sure that the walls between the different flows are perforated, that you can flow up and down without any consequences being attached in the assessment. That is where we are on the right track. If you work on roof pan classes, broad school communities, extended bridge periods or what you want to call it all, you can offer every child optimal opportunities in a wonderful way. Mr. Chairman. The SGP also thinks it is an excellent idea to ensure that the process of transition to secondary education does not create unnecessarily unequal opportunities, as I said. Therefore, I support the fixed registration date. How do we prevent all kinds of creative solutions from emerging to avoid that registration date, for example through pre-subscriptions? I would remind you of the introduction of appropriate education, including the three-year registration age. In practice, however, this does not seem to be an immediate guarantee of equal opportunities. The government does not see the risk that the final test may become negative by taking this after the school advice. However, the SGP regularly hears from schools that they experience a lot of pressure from parents who take the final test to get a firm school advice. The constant criticism in this Chamber that schools would do too few adjustments after the final test gives the impression that we do not fully trust the school advice. Moreover, the final test is always referred to as a second objective, and this confirms the impression that the school advice would in fact be a subjective one. In this context, would it not be logical, simpler and more constructive to make the final test part of the school advice, as indicated by the bill? A judge doesn't get his verdict first and then consult an independent expert and reconsider his judgment? Sorry for the bizarre comparison, but well, it's about the trajectory, about the thought pattern. The SGP does not fully understand that the government relies on a limited sample in the field, while many advisory bodies suggest a different direction. Mr. Chairman. We don't like to think about emergencies, but the corona crisis has taught us that it is useful to do so. What choice does the government make when it comes to the flow test? Over the past year, we have seen that the legal standard has been repealed. However, this choice is not made by the government in the proposal. She's talking about offering a calamity test. This would be sufficiently regulated by naming it in the explanatory memorandum, but that is still too weak in terms of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u120	May I interrupt you for a moment? Mrs Pouw-Verweij, on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u121	I have a question for Mr Bishop about his comment on the inclusion of the objective part of the test in the subjective opinion, as he mentioned. In theory a beautiful thought, I think, that will make for a very big adjustment. Not all the changes in education make education better, I think. But isn't this happening already? It sounds a bit like we only have an objective end point and before that there is absolutely no test and it is all subjective. But aren't children being tested for their entire school career?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you for this question. That is a clear point. What I've always seen in practice, in my opinion, hasn't changed at that point... is that a good teacher who deals professionally with students has an image of every student. This is an image formed by contacts and all kinds of impressions and so on, but also by the student being followed in his performance, in the scores that the student gets. That gives a certain objectivity. That is why the flow test after the school advice is not very logical. Then it seems as if there is another photo, a snapshot, to be made. This can then lead to an adjustment of the advice, where the advice is, as it were, the film that the teacher had in mind. He has seen which way the child is developing and has advised on this basis. So my question to the Minister is: should you not go back to the situation in which this snapshot, which is now a kind of closure, is placed before the advice? But that remark is correct, I'm sure. Then the calamity test. If the route of the calamity test is really the choice of the legislator......................................................................................................................................................................................... I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Then the second point, the apprenticeship tracking system. In my opinion, this legal treatment does not pay much attention to the apprenticeship follow-up system, but there is a real need in practice and there is a lot of confusion. The SGP is pleased that the government clearly states in its response that schools are free to use other observation tools than those formally recognised. At the same time, the draft assessment framework states that this freedom would depend on the obligation to use recognised apprenticeship monitoring system tests from Group 3. This is an example of confusion. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to make it clear that there are two separate discussions here and that there is no conditional free choice when it comes to following kindergarten children. I hear from practice that there is a great deal of concern that the new standards for observation instruments may lead to these instruments resembling tests. I refer, for example, to the letter from the national professional counsellors, who also approached us on behalf of a number of other institutions. For example, the standard framework is based on the score of pupils in certain groups rather than an observation of the development of the pupil. Does the Minister also see this risk, especially from the educational point of view of the child? And how does the Minister prevent us from retrieving the kindergarten tests through the back door? Mr. Chairman. I don't like to say it often and often, but it must be a bit of the heart that the communication and working methods around the student tracking system, the observation instruments and the kindergarten test seem a bit messy. The legal LVS test is cut into a function that he has never had and cannot have educational content either, namely that of observation instrument. For example, see the site of the expert group. For years, there has been gloomy thinking about what should or should not be mandatory or recognised. The exclusion of the kindergarten test, part of the coalition agreement, is now only laid down in lower rules. You can do better than that. The field of education is entitled to it. I therefore believe that we would be doing the field a good service if we had the amendment on item No. Nine, take it. There is another reason for this, a point that the SGP is heavily on the stomach. This is about how legislation is dealt with that has been accepted by Parliament. Recently we had an incident with the Temporary Law Groningen, in which the Minister did not want amendments adopted to enter into force. So that can't exist. In the apprenticeship tracking system, we see the same problem. With Bishop, Van Meenen and Rog's amendment, Parliament has deliberately, knowingly, increased the professional space for teachers and schools. I find it disappointing and also unacceptable that the Minister does not want to implement the law. In doing so, it seems that an inspection execution test should serve as a lightning rod, suggesting that we have not properly seen the consequences. On the contrary. The Minister has already strongly expressed his objections during the legal process. I've checked the Acts again. There all the arguments are already mentioned, which also refers to the inspection in its test. But these arguments have clearly not convinced Parliament. Would it not at least have been more courteous to present the issue honestly to Parliament instead of a simple communication, so that it could be explicitly reconsidered? The applicants have therefore been forced to table another amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 12. We hope that we can finally close the file with this. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to start with this; that would have been so courteous. But I would like to congratulate the absent colleague Paul on her beautiful maiden speech. She reads it all in the Acts, so I'm just saying my lucky wish anyway. I loved the way in which the personal experience and the way it got its place in the social context were expressed. Congratulations. I look forward to working together. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you for your input, too. We need the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mrs. Pouw-Verweij. She will speak on behalf of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mrs Paul on her beautiful maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the amendment of certain education laws. This is a sign of education: we are going to work on the flow, so we need to take laws on the shovel again. Education and change; it has been a painful combination for some 40 years. The direct cause is to promote equality of opportunity. The promotion of equal opportunities can, of course, also count on the agreement of JA21. After all, all children have talents. In an ideal setting of the education system, all children will have the opportunity to develop these talents equally. That is different from saying that all talents are equal, because equality of opportunity is something other than trying to equalize all children. Kids aren't uniform. We're lucky to have that. Therefore, let us not burden children with uniform expectations, under the motto of 'promoting equal opportunities'. After all, children's interests and talents vary. An education system that promotes equality of opportunity meets these differences. This education has an eye and appreciation for the desire for practical training and provides for the need for theoretical training. There are students who want to design ships, students who want to build that ship and students who want to sail it. Education that does not take into account differences in interest and talents offers a pinching straitjacket that is inadequate for students. Equality of opportunity does not mean equality of outcomes. Education is not the great equalizer. It is not in practice, but that is not the ideal for JA21 either. It is an essential observation of a legislative proposal that seeks to promote equality of opportunity. For my group, equality of opportunity does not imply the tacit assumption that theoretical education is higher and that practical education has a lower status. The pursuit of equality of opportunity must never become the justification for a culture of six in the Netherlands: a culture that attracts every student to the gray mediocrity and discourages excel. Opportunity equality is about the starting position, not the outcome position. The Netherlands is slowly sinking into the international education lists. As far as JA21 is concerned, we should not think lightly about that. This bill is not going to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mrs Pouw-Verweij continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u127	I couldn't understand it, but I don't think it was a substantive response to my speech. So I'm gonna leave it for what it is. Where was I? With this bill, the balance between the weight of the school advice in relation to the final test goes into a new phase. That is undoubtedly not the final stage. Since this will not be the last debate on this subject, we will see this debate as a flow-through debate on a flow-through test. My group shares the reluctance of the Council of State. This bill has a fairly high "if not, then it does not" content. It is possible to vigorously defend all conceivable positions on the relationship between tests and opinions and on their timing without having any idea of the real consequences of any new design. We don't know that until the next amendment of a number of education laws. My group wonders whether it really is a solution to the issue of testing and advice or whether it conceals an underlying reality. The pursuit of equality of opportunity takes place in the context of an everyday reality of major socio-economic and cultural factors. They have such decisive weight that school advice and tests can never ignore them, regardless of the well-balanced indicators on which they are based and whatever fashionable name is made up for them. The search for equal opportunities is limited by the home situation and the living environment. Parents who prepare their children early for tests will always give their children a head start. They don't need this bill with the sympathetic thought behind it. It is doubtful whether the children for whom this bill has been drafted do have it. The extent to which the home situation is underestimated is reflected in the intention to include in the school guide a mandatory explanation of procedures surrounding the transition from primary education to further education. This in itself is not a mistake, but for parents with a less literate background, this measure does not offer any better prospects of understanding the procedures. It is already a great challenge for parents with a strong education to study and understand the school advice procedure. My group wonders what the pattern of expectations is that the inclusion of procedures in a school guide will contribute to increasing equality of opportunity, not on paper but in real life. I note that a school provides education that fits the level of pupils. Education is not an equal opportunity factory. If we think that tests should be corrections to opinions that should be corrections to test, we overlook the reality that tests and advice are not tools to eliminate inequality but instruments to give a real and balanced picture of the real perspective of the student. My group agrees in principle with the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld. The abolition of a final test under national direction is the beginning of the end of the value of tests. It may go a little far, but as far as we are concerned, this is already apparent from the term 'through-flow test'. Both the leaving of this instrument to the market and the naming show the implicit idea of a devaluation of the value of tests. Finally, Mr President. Policies to promote equality of opportunity quickly run the risk of becoming symbolic politics. In recent decades, many attempts have been made from The Hague to address educational deficits, mostly without scientific evidence indicating whether this actually reduces these deficits. I started by saying that JA21 is also a great supporter of giving equal opportunities to every student, but it is through policies that work demonstrably and not through symbolic politics. If Mr. Peters will allow me to hold off on the interruption, I have two more sentences. Symbol politics guarantees a cycle of flow-through debates. Scrolling with tests is a textbook example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you for the very clear and beautiful story, which I largely agree with. This certainly applies to the point that equality of opportunity does not, of course, exist. It's about raising people and promoting the opportunities that a human being has. That still doesn't make them equal. I actually have the same question as the one I asked Mr. Beertema of the PVV. I understand everything you're saying, but I don't understand the focus on that final test. It doesn't make what a child is, does it? That doesn't do anything else, does it? That's a snapshot, right? I don't get the focus on that. I think we should focus on excellent lessons, developing all the talents, practical or not practical and whether they want to sail, join a boat or design a boat. Shouldn't that be our focus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u130	I think we are in complete agreement on that. I also very much agreed with what you said in your speech, namely that it is a good balance between the teacher's advice on the one hand and the final test on the other. We also have the necessary criticism of the final test, but we do not want to throw away the child with the bath water. So indeed, that should not be the full focus, but we are afraid that if we take this away from the government, a step will be taken towards the slow removal of it, and we are not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u131	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u132	Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u133	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you for your input. We have come to the end of the first term of office. We're going to suspend so that the minister can prepare his answer and the members and the minister can still enjoy lunch. We will do so until 1.15 p.m.
