ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the Foreign Affairs Trade Council. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, the Members of Parliament and, where appropriate, the viewers at home. It's a two-minute debate. In other words, Members have the opportunity to ask questions or make motions within two minutes. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The European Commission remains committed to concluding trade agreements which are unfair to Dutch farmers and which drive large-scale deforestation. The Party for Animals wants this to end as soon as possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is working on a commercial policy strategy for the coming years;]] [[noting that trade agreements in which agriculture is included lead to substantial additional imports of cheap agricultural products from countries elsewhere;]] [[whereas these countries often produce under lower production standards and this leads to a significant increase in unfair competition for Dutch farmers;]] [[Whereas trade agreements in which agriculture is included often encourage deforestation;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to trade agreements which include agriculture with countries where production standards in agriculture are lower than those in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the negotiations on the EU-China investment agreement are still ongoing due to serious human rights violations in China;]] [[considers that the agreement is a comprehensive investment treaty that deserves maximum democratic control and should therefore not be an exclusive competence of the EU (EU-only);]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to ensure that the EU-China investment agreement becomes a joint agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that negotiations on the TTIP agreement between the EU and the US were closed in 2016, inter alia because Germany, France and the Netherlands withdrew their support;]] [[whereas the Convention raised a great deal of resistance, for example because of the controversial claim system for multinationals;]] [[noting that EU-US relations are normalising;]] [[Notes that the negotiations on TTIP should not be resumed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2330]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	It's a speech-expression, I say to the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that violence between rebels and the government army in Mozambique has already cost thousands of lives;]] [[whereas the French Total and the Dutch dredging company Van Oord withdrew from Mozambique;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has not yet withdrawn from financing a highly controversial gas project in Mozambique;]] [[calls on the Government to stop export credit insurance for the gas project in Mozambique immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion, but I would just like to touch on an issue that we briefly discussed yesterday. It was promised that a letter would be sent soon and that the series of parliamentary questions would be answered quickly. It concerns Mozambique, an export credit insurance issued. I have heard Mr Van Dijk's motion, but I do not think you can simply stop insurance. I wonder what that's like. I slept well last night but at 4.00 a.m. tonight an extensive article by Bram Vermeulen of the NRC appeared on this matter, stating that the extent of the insurance issued appears to be greater than mentioned in previous reports. I would like the Minister to go into that in that letter and answer to the lessons learned in the assessment on the imvo side and by Arcadis, and more fundamentally to the question of how we can stop issuing export credit insurance for fossil activities as soon as possible. I'd like to hear those assurances. Shortly. I have great sympathy for the idea behind the motion of the Party for Animals on the need to improve product standards in agriculture. However, I read the operative part in such a way that it is no longer possible for the poorest countries in the world to make preferential trade agreements with the European Union. It's blocking their development. I have been the director of a development organisation in dozens of developing countries and have visited a multitude of agricultural projects. I am really sorry that the child is thrown away with the bath water in this way. So my party can't go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	That raises a question from Mrs Teunissen, who tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is not that we will not be able to make any more agreements if this motion is adopted. Nor does it mean that production in poorer countries should be worse. We are also working with poorer countries on fair trade products and fair conditions. So it's not like you can't make any more deals about that. We are talking about trade agreements which are becoming increasingly generic, which the European Union concludes with a large number of countries, where we cannot raise production standards but only lower them. According to WTO rules, you cannot currently require other countries to increase production standards but only to reduce them. That is why it is so necessary for us to exclude agriculture, because it is of no benefit to anyone. The Dutch farmers do not benefit from this; do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	It would be good if you would visit agricultural development projects yourself. Even where there is fair trade, there are still many abuses in practice. I've visited a lot of cocoa farmers, very small peasants, deep in the jungle. They have no rules at all, there are no governments, there are no product standards at all, and there is very poor agricultural knowledge. They are trying to connect into an international chain. This applies to the vast majority of small farmers in developing countries. I understand your ideal, but with this in mind, you are blocking the development of many people in the world. You're really throwing away the baby with the bathwater. When it comes to the assessment of individual treaties and the agricultural agreements contained therein, I will go with you. My party is also very critical of this, and we are also blocking treaties in which this is not properly regulated. But to rule out in a generic sense for the future that one day might, I think that is really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mrs Teunissen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to say that I had no experience of this: I visited agricultural projects a long time ago, including in Kenya. I totally agree that the circumstances are incredibly bad. But then my second question to Mr Van der Lee is: how are the trade agreements which aim to standardise production, which aim to achieve efficiency and large scale, and which, therefore, only lead to a race to the bottom, going to help improve conditions in other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	One of the steps is that you really have to differentiate which countries you really mean. Countries that are further advanced in their development and that also have a functioning state, you can appeal much more to standards than countries where that is hardly the case. This motion does not introduce any diversification at all at such levels. It is therefore far too generic, far too general, and therefore excludes categorical agreements in the field of agriculture. So I think that's unwise. If you table another motion, think better about it and give better details, I may be able to do so once, but not at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	You don't agree, but we're doing one interruption. I give the floor to Mrs Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	When I listen to the previous speakers and also to Mr Van der Lee, the question arises as to whether we want to participate on the world stage, whether we want to put ourselves out of play. An important illusion that lives here is that if we do not do business through trade agreements or, as Mrs Teunissen proposes, excluding agriculture from trade agreements, we will improve the world. That's exactly what it is: an illusion. Other countries are eager to jump into the hole we leave behind. I am thinking in particular of China. We all see what is happening in Africa and in large parts of Asia, the moment China jumps into that hole. Are we going to use trade agreements, including on major issues such as agriculture, to tackle issues, to create jobs, here and in the countries with which we trade? Or are we going to leave that to other countries that do not stick to any standards? Mr Van der Lee spoke about blocking trade agreements. On the contrary, we have an excellent opportunity, through trade agreements alongside the jobs here and the jobs in the countries with which we trade, to get things done in terms of working conditions, human rights, nature and the environment and other matters that we consider important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	In any case, I would ask you to be a little shorter and not to repeat the debate. But that's a question. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Well, look, GroenLinks is a party that loves multilateralism. That's our history, and that's what we stand for. Look, what's unfortunate is that the VVD found out way too late that free trade and fair trade are two different things. If the VVD had fought with us and other parties in the Chamber for decades for more fair trade agreements, the world could have looked a lot different. So that's where I'm going with you. International agreements and treaties can lead to improvements, but then you have to fight together for them, and that has not happened enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs. Paul, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	A contradiction is being created here with which I do not agree at all. When you talk about free trade, it's about free trade by rules of the game. The VVD strongly supports this, including through trade agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	But not when it comes to rules on production conditions, how sustainable and social they are. There the VVD is slowly learning, but that has taken a very long, much too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about five minutes to give her appreciation of the motions and to answer a single question. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	I shall begin with the first motion, by Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Van der Plas. I have, of course, had the opportunity to discuss this in detail with Mr Ouwehand, among others, over the last few years, but I think there are two main differences. We see as a outgoing cabinet that international dependence on raw materials and agricultural products is a fact. Trade also takes place without trade agreements. It's as old as humanity. On the contrary, we have a great interest, as Mr Van der Lee has also pointed out, in achieving careful, well-balanced agreements with a sustainability bar in order to raise the requirements. This concerns all products, but of course also agricultural products. Large scale is not the goal. It is precisely a question of improving the rules in order to put the chain in order, to have supervision and to know what we are talking about. So we don't want to generalize, we want to differentiate. In his debate with Mrs Teunissen, Mr Van der Lee made this point very well. I would advise against this motion in part No. 2329.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	I hear the Minister saying that she wants to work with these trade agreements on sustainability, so I also accept it in the field of agriculture. But we have the WTO, and those rules simply say that you cannot increase production standards for other countries. You can't decide that. In other words, you must not influence production standards elsewhere. So how can such a trade agreement contribute to improving agricultural standards in countries elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	There's a difference. There are WTO rules that say that production requirements should not count, but you can voluntarily make agreements in agreements on how something is produced. We do this multilaterally, and we do it bilaterally. Production requirements relate to salarying, working conditions of vulnerable groups, in particular women and girls, animal welfare and pricing of products. That's all part of that package. It's being negotiated all the time. It's just an opportunity. The difference is: we want to sit at the table and we want to ensure that we can exert influence. As already mentioned, we are not only using the investment, the trade side, we are also using the development cooperation side, from the big budget that the European Union has to help the poorest of the poor, the poorest peasants to get the chance to market and get a fair price for their product. Without these agreements, this is not happening at all and we are dealing with structural exploitation. Finally, of course, it is also true that in most of the trade agreements, for example, the Dutch farmers, the agricultural sector, I would like to mention now, have extensive benefits. We're winning and we're making money from it. The Dutch sectors are protected where the sensitivities are and the Canadian agricultural sector is, frankly, more affected by Dutch competition, precisely because of the earning model that the Netherlands has from the agricultural sector. That would actually be the other side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs Teunissen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	I can only hear the benefits of trade agreements mentioned, but in practice we see, for example with the Mercosur agreement, that this does not lead to better standards at all. The preliminary political agreement has already led to more deforestation in Brazil. At the same time, CETA also shows that production standards in Canada are lower. CETA has also had no influence on changing those standards. So in practice it doesn't work and you see that it only leads to a generalisation of standards, a lowering of standards. This is of no benefit to the diversification of agriculture elsewhere and to local economies. The only beneficiaries are multinationals and large-scale agriculture. That's exactly what we need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I've heard so many things get mixed up. It's good to be consistent. Canada is an OECD country. It's a rich country. They have laws and regulations. We have a number of technical working groups through CETA which also discuss production requirements. So that's another process. I'm not comparing a country like Canada to a country like Brazil. It is also right that we have said to the Commission: beware, we have great concerns about Mercosur. We have also joined other initiatives with France to combat the deforestation of the Amazon. But Mercosur's political chapter is about human rights, about governance, about anti-corruption, about a lot. You are now talking about the agricultural part of Mercosur. As the Commission knows, the Dutch Parliament has already adopted a motion rejecting the Mercosur Treaty. We can't bring in apples and pears here. The point of this motion is: differentiation is what we are talking about: promoting influence and sustainability, not only in the Netherlands, but also elsewhere through international agreements. Madam President. We also discussed the negotiations on production requirements in the WTO yesterday. Fortunately, there is a movement that says: within the WTO, the rules of the game, the so-called rulebook, must be changed to also lay down production requirements. That needs to be discussed. These are long, slow multilateral processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	First of all, I would like to say that today is a very historic day, because it is the first time in history that the Party for Animals and BBB jointly table a motion. We will often cross swords in agriculture, but I would like to remind you of this. As far as the motion is concerned, I think that Mrs Teunissen and I do not have the illusion that a large majority of the House will be created for this, but a statement is being made here. This type of agricultural agreement is also about principles. Our farmers in the Netherlands are being tightened even further. The Minister's party calls for a halving of livestock and for circular farming. Then it remains very strange that there can be trade with countries with a method of production that does not meet our standards. Nevertheless, I still have a question for the Minister: how are we going to tell the consumer if he buys a cup of chicken salad or a pizza with chicken on it? Then how does the consumer know whether that piece of chicken or pork was produced according to our production method?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mrs van der Plas had the answer to that question yesterday in the committee debate. I have promised her that she will pass this on to the Minister of the United States of America, who is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	Finally, Mrs van der Plas. It seems to have already been discussed in yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's right. I am certainly going to do that, but this Minister is involved in this kind of trade agreement. She may find that annoying, but she does. I am indeed going to do that, but this kind of trade agreement actually forgets the consumer. That is the last point I wish to make. The consumer simply has the right to have honest information about the origin of his or her food. I would ask the Minister to include this in future negotiations on trade agreements. I think that most consumers do not know where all that food comes from in those processed products.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	It's a good idea. Like I said, I'll pass it on to VWS. I'll see what's going on. We have a lot of labels. Moreover, I believe that consumers should also know how much CO emissions that product has caused and what the compensation is for that. I'd find that interesting myself. The same applies to products produced here. Then the consumer may choose differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. The Minister continues her appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	Then we have motion in part no. 2330, by Mr Van Dijk. At the moment, the Investment Treaty is at a standstill, as we discussed in detail yesterday and, as was also recalled in response to a number of parliamentary questions. We still don't know if it's gonna be mixed or not. I understand that you want it to be mixed so that Parliament can look more closely. I understand that, but we do not want to anticipate this at the moment because we do not yet know the content enough. I shall come back to that when that is appropriate. I pledge that the Minister for Trade and Development Cooperation, whoever will be here in that capacity at that time, will do so at a time when you can still influence the choice. I think that's right. That's the point of your motion. I therefore ask you to hold this motion because I cannot say anything else about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk. Does he want his motion to part No. Hold on 230?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	Exactly. It's an effort. In my view, the Minister and the undersigned are very much in favour of democratic participation. So it seems to me to be something nice that the Minister might be able to take with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	If the motion is not held...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	It's an effort, but like I said, there's a caveat. There may be an effort, but the government cannot say at the moment: we are going to ensure that it becomes a mixed agreement. That is what we are assessing on the basis of the content. With this commitment, therefore, I will give the motion judgment, Chamber, but it may well be that the government says: it must be an EU-only treaty and we accept that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	The motion in part No. 2330 gets judgment Chamber, with the interpretation that has just changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	The motion in part No. 2331 is a speech-expression. So that's up to your room. Then the motion to part No. 2332. I ask Mr Van Dijk to hold that motion and to await the answer of the parliamentary questions and the letter. I also refer to the supplementary questions and comments made by Mr Van der Lee. We can take them with us. I'd like to have contact with the embassy and with companies. I have already exchanged this bilaterally with Mr Van Dijk. Indeed, I would also like to examine under what conditions a force major in contracts would be an option. I don't know. I have to talk to Mr Vijlbrief about this, because the Ministry of Finance is the captain on this point. So that's a more complex process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	Let me look at the President, because if the vote on this motion is taking place next Tuesday, is it possible for the Minister to send the letter to the Chamber for Tuesday? At that time, I can decide whether or not to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	I don't have an indication right now. We're doing the best we can, but I can't promise 100% that everything is in order the way you want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	Let me see when the votes are. The votes on this are on Thursday. Is that correct? Yes. Then I'll take a look at the Minister to see if he can do that. That's pretty quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	It is a commitment to ultimate effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	The question is therefore whether Mr Van Dijk is prepared to hold his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	If the Minister tries to give me information before that vote, I will wait for it. That depends on whether my motion makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	I totally get that. We'll get back to you from the minister. Then I would like to thank the Minister for her attention. Oh, Mr. Van der Lee. However, the Minister indicated that she still included the answer to the questions in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yeah, that's right. However, I have to discuss with my group what we are doing with this motion if it is to be put to the vote. My question is this. Is it possible at all to stop export credit insurance which has already been issued and may even have entered into force because the situation is there? Does the Minister know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	I already turned this question off this morning. I think this is a complex legal issue, regardless of questions about a reliable government, reputational damage and risk weighting. My assessment is that I cannot get this matter presented so clearly before Thursday that I can make a judgment on it myself with Mr Vijlbrief. This also gives a precedent effect, so this requires a very careful weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. I want to thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	So we are going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. Tomorrow's the day of voting. I thank the Members of Parliament. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. The debate will then take place on the return regime for Syrian refugees.
