ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS and the Minister for Medical Care. Of course, I would also like to welcome all the spokesmen. I'm just gonna wait a second, because something's being remodeled in "K." This is actually the last debate of the Chamber in its old composition. This is a special moment, though. I would, of course, like to welcome all the spokesmen. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We long for everything that was so obvious at the beginning of last year: a beer on a terrace, shopping without stopwatch and dinners with many friends. But I can't right now. The numbers are going the wrong way. The risk that we will find ourselves in a situation in which we need to rescale important concerns is very serious. That reminds me of last summer. At that time too, the infections started to get worse, even then we didn't see that directly in the hospital figures, and even then many young people were infected. But we also learned at that time that young people themselves do not get very sick but they do light people. That is where the risk lies, because the group of people who end up very ill on the ic has not yet been vaccinated. Last summer, we didn't intervene firmly enough when that happened. That was an important lesson. That is why the VVD supports that we do not relax now but stay firm and that we therefore stick to the curfew. The move from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. was not necessary for my group. Of course I understand that it is nice to be outside for an hour longer, but we would have liked to have saved that space. Can the cabinet guarantee that the shift to 10 p.m. is completely separate from the somewhat clumsy statements of the mayor of Rotterdam? A lot of entrepreneurs, especially in the catering industry, are having another setback to deal with. The VVD group understands that there is no room now, but if the figures are not that bad in the next few weeks, can we give more space faster, for example at the terraces? And do we have a clear picture of what are the biggest bottlenecks there to be able to take steps? Are these people moving or is it also the use of toilets, for example? This will enable entrepreneurs to prepare themselves to the maximum extent possible. The question is whether this also happens in consultation between the cabinet and the catering industry. Testing is and remains important. That's what we've been calling out for a long time. Call me impatient, but really hurry up doesn't work. The entrance tests: in April we do pilots with them, but I only read about a soccer game. Can't this be broader, including in theatres, cinemas, gyms at large shops and companies? In higher education, pilots run self- and quick tests. Can we not also use the lessons we draw from this for pilots in other sectors, for example in the hospitality industry? And why are the self-tests that Klaas Dijkhoff asked for earlier, still not in the store? About vaccinations, I heard the Minister say yesterday that he punctures as quickly as the vaccines are delivered. So I assume that we keep minimum stocks and that the extra stock of AstraZeneca that is now on the shelf is the result of the break. Is that correct and how quickly has that delay been eliminated? Mr. Chairman. In view of the finish, we need to be even more there for each other. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet continues to help entrepreneurs and to see what else is needed. Three questions about this. Money has been promised for the starters and our sailing heritage, the so-called brown fleet. That money is ready, but the arrangements are still not worked out. Can this happen faster? Entrepreneurs are now getting the first reports that they have to pay back money, for example because the blow in their sector came later than expected or because they have been able to make some more money with creative solutions. How's the Cabinet handling that? How do we prevent entrepreneurs from being unnecessarily involved in stacks of administration when there is finally room for them to actually start doing business again, and that they should be in contact with perhaps four different counters? Is it conceivable, for example, that there will be a one-stop shop for the settlement of this problem? Mr. Chairman. Our patience is being tested again. In the view of the port it is even heavier than it already was, but let's please stick together, bite together the last few weeks, don't look up the edges, fully enjoy the space that is there and look forward to what is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am very happy to face Mrs Hermans once. That brings back memories of a beautiful past. But there was still a contradiction in the story, because you indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	Everyone's curious!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	Those were very pleasant times in the VVD group. I've been a member of the VVD for 38 years and that was with great pleasure. Now I've come to a real freedom party with great pleasure. So that's why I can ask a question. But there was still a contradiction in the story. That was about the beer on a terrace. We're all in the mood for that, but we can't. As Prime Minister Rutte always says, we all want it, but the virus doesn't want it. I'd like to ask a question about those terraces anyway. The VVD has of course consistently supported all measures against this killer virus and therefore half the catering industry is going bankrupt. Probably just after the election; that's a bit of a shame. I think I'm gonna file a motion later to open up those terraces. Then can I count on your support?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	No. Mr. Van Haga can't count on our support, because that choice isn't right now. I have started my speech very clearly by saying that the situation is now as it is. The pressure on the hospitals is unprecedented. The risk that in a few weeks' time we will find ourselves in a situation where care needs to be scaled down is so great that we cannot open terraces now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	That surprises me a little, because you do ask the question about possible lighting for opening terraces. Then I assume you've also calculated the risk of contamination on those terraces. Because we know that there is hardly any contamination outside. So then opening those terraces would be just a very nice lighting for the catering industry that ruins your party, my old party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	If you had listened carefully to my speech, you would have heard my question about the terraces. We can count on our support for the way in which the cabinet now weighs up not to relax, but to continue with the firm package of measures we have. That's based on figures we're seeing now and we're expecting. Mr Van Dissel showed these figures again this morning in the technical briefing. Those are figures which, at least to me, give cause for concern, if that is good Dutch. Let me put it this way: at least I am concerned about it. Then we should not take steps to increase risks. So we don't. The only question I asked is this. Is the cabinet prepared to relax rather if it turns out that we all manage to beat the figures in this country, because we respect the basic rules well, so that the risk we see will not arise and so there will be room to relax earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	It's all very nice to beat those figures; it's about: has there been any research done or do you know anything about the risk of contamination on the terraces? If that is not the case, if we do not know about it and it is simply the same as there is no risk of contamination outside, are you prepared to support that motion? Then it is an incredibly beautiful lighting for the catering industry to be able to open those terraces?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think it's starting with you asking the cabinet that question. Then I will wait for the answer and then, as with all the motions, I will study the text carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'm gonna ask the cabinet that question later, and then I'll come back to you with my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. You will only have been at home for months and kept to the rules after 9:00 p.m., having received no more than one person a day as a guest and not even made an evening walk, because it is not allowed by Rutte. You feel depressed and locked up, limited in your freedom, and no one is interested in your misery. He certainly didn't. He extends the measures over and over again and doesn't care about you and your objections. The curfew should also not start later than 9 p.m., because that would greatly reduce its effectiveness. But, chairman, that all changes when your name is Ahmed Aboutaleb and starts whining about the Ramadan, if you think that 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands want to see their family after fasting. Then you'll be listened to. Rutte's gonna turn around right away. Then the curfew is changed within 24 hours, supposedly for all religious celebrations and for the enforcement, but in reality of course to accommodate the Muslims in this country. To them, is the Prime Minister's message, is being listened to. That's the Netherlands in 2021. It's too sick and too disgusting for words. Mr. Chairman. We must, of course, get rid of that curfew, not because Muslims are squeaking, but because the measure is disproportionate and nonsensical. By the way, Mrs Kaag of D66 felt the same on Friday, but on Saturday she joined again and offered her humble apologies to the Prime Minister. So soon after the election, and already so confused. I don't know if I should feel more sorry for her or Rutte, who wants to go on with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	When I hear Mr Wilders' story like this, he prefers that curfew to continue at 9 p.m. Is Mr Wilders happy that curfew at least went to 10 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, but not for the reason. Of course I want to get rid of that curfew. That's what I just said. I think I'm the only one here who's always been consistent with curfew. Your party was against that, by the way. Sorry about that. Well, then we're among the few parties who've been against curfew from the start. But it's because of me. One Monday night, Mr. Aboutaleb yells... what did he say? I quote Mr Aboutaleb now. "That's gonna be a bit of a thing; the fasting takes until 21.00/21.30 hours. After that, people have the urge to see their family, and for 1 million people in the Netherlands that becomes complicated." And one day after, one day after, Rutte bends and the curfew goes from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., while the whole of the Netherlands, from Christmas onwards, and also in periods before curfew, was stuck and was not allowed to receive people, or one, or sometimes two or three people, at home. They weren't being listened to. But Mr. Aboutaleb yells about the Ramadan and we all bend like a cutting knife and we adjust it. I welcome the adjustment, but it is scandalous that this is the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would say to Mr Wilders: don't be so acidic. You've been standing here for months arguing against curfew. So does my party. We're side by side. We think it is a measure which goes too far, which reduces people's freedom too much and which is not effective enough. Now it is moved for an hour, which is nice for a lot of people, and then Mr Wilders is sour again. Then he brings back the Muslim, like a pack donkey of all his displeasure, and then he says: it's good that it goes in an hour later now, but yes, it's very annoying that that is for Muslims... If it is already so. I'm gonna say it again: Mr. Wilders, please embrace that. Just be glad it just moved up for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	It is terrible that the Dutch, the non-Muslim, is discriminated against every time. If he complains his company's going bankrupt, they won't listen. If he complains that his terraces can't be opened, then there's no listening. If he thinks he should be able to go out at night after 9:00 p.m., then there's no listening. If he is told that during the Dutch holidays he may only receive a number of people at home, they will not be listened to. The Dutchman is never listened to. And then there is a mayor of, indeed, Islamic descent, who doesn't make a secret of it himself, who simply says after the consultation: "But I find it so incredibly complicated for the Muslims. Those Muslims should still be able to go to people after their fasting, at 9:00 p.m. or 9:30 p.m. at night?" You can't do that! According to the rules, you're only allowed to receive one person. So he says something he can't and complains about curfew. Earlier there was no listening to all those non-Muslims in the Netherlands, but now the cabinet, Rutte, suddenly says: I think that one million Muslims in the Netherlands are very important, so of course I am listening to them. This is how we know Mr Rutte: bending and cutting. He's nodding now. That means it's very true what I'm saying. He said, "I'm gonna do it." And he just did it! Of course I'm happy. It could have been completely abolished, but it is so acidic that the Dutchman gets zero on the record. But if you're Muslim, or you represent Muslims, or you think you represent Muslims, you get what you want. That's too disgusting for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	Here, of course, we see the true nature of Mr Wilders. He actually thinks that Muslims should not count as citizens of this country. There are different rules for that. If these citizens say to each other... they didn't do that, by the way. Mr Aboutaleb said something. A lot of Muslims have said that it is not necessary at all and that they can follow the rules perfectly. But if it were, then these would also be ordinary citizens of this country who will be met in this case. I still don't think so. But that sourness... the acidity with which Mr. Wilders can even explain a victory as a defeat. It is really something to be attributed to Mr Wilders. Only he can do that, with the result that he puts Muslims away as second-class citizens again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm not putting anyone away as a second-class citizen. But it is indeed very acidic that the ordinary Dutchman is not listened to and that he is ignored. His pain, whether it's his company or the curfew... We've had that curfew for months, for two months in the Netherlands. Yesterday it was two months. There are a lot of people who suffer from that. They don't listen to that. Restaurants are almost bankrupt. They don't listen to that. The cabinet doesn't listen to anyone. Rutte doesn't care about anyone. And then someone stands up and says, "Yes, but one million Muslims have Ramadan right away; they must be able to eat and do what." And what does he do a day after that, with all the excuses about enforcement and all the holidays? He's just doing it. That's very acidic indeed. That's very acidic. Nice that curfew is gone, but apparently there are different rules for Muslims in the Netherlands. That's very bad. Mr. Chairman. The fact is that Dutch people crave more freedom. The fact is that Rutte promised more freedom before the elections, to return to them immediately after the elections. The man almost always lies. And he's now muddling on the theme of freedom, with closed shops and terraces, and giving the hospitality and retail again a headbeat. Of course, no one will deny that the hospital rates are still worrying: over 2,000 corona patients in the hospital, of which over 600 are in intensive care. That is indeed a huge burden on hospital care, which has previously been skilfully broken down by the Prime Minister's party. Mr. Chairman. But there can be so much more than the cabinet now allows, without causing the number of infections, and therefore in a responsible way. The risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is almost zero. So stop with all the rules outside. Stop the fines. Stop curfew. Let those boas and cops go after real criminals again. Let the catering industry, including the terraces, and also all shops just open again. Because that can be justified. They can and will abide by the basic rules. They also have their own protocols as responsible industries. If necessary, I have already told the Minister of Health that there is such a low-threshold bladder everywhere that allows people to be tested so that the hospitality industry, the sports sector and the event industry can be reopened until voluntary vaccination has done its job. And how on earth is it possible that the Netherlands is again one of the slowest vaccineing countries in the European Union? Only Latvia and Bulgaria are still slower. Why are you messing with me again? In the United Kingdom, almost 875,000 shots were made last Saturday in one day. In the Netherlands on the same day only 27.000, while there are 700,000 vaccines in stock in the freezer. It's too embarrassing for words. Follow Mr Kuipers' opinion by putting one shot per person. That gives huge benefits, such as the rapid reduction of the pressure on care and the abolition of that lockdown. Why don't you? What is the state of affairs regarding the scaling-down of hospital care for all those other patients who have no corona and are often forgotten in this house? What about those delays? What about the missing cancer diagnoses? What about all those people who are waiting for a, sometimes life-saving, surgery? When will they be helped? I welcome every debate again and now again. We must not forget these people. I want an answer to the question when they will be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're more than tired of corona. It appears to be a long-distance walk in which the next patch appears to be closed each time. Together we had hoped for fewer infections and nice weather at Easter, so we can finally get back on the terrace. But it's not going to happen, because the number of infections is rising rapidly and hospital and ic recordings are rising. It is therefore understandable that there will be no relaxations, with the exception of the curfew going from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., so that we can avoid the summer time effect problems. However, the lack of a short-term perspective for the catering industry is particularly serious for a sector which is now faced with and opposed to water, a sector which is now also faced with large refunds to the NOW. We even understand that 60% of companies have to pay back money. This means, in addition to major financial concerns, legal uncertainty. We understand that doing customization for every company is impossible in execution. We really understand that. The dilemma letter about the NOW last Monday also shows that. But several entrepreneurs experience unreasonableness in the account of the NOW at a lower wage bill beyond their debt. The handling of objections about this now accumulates at UWV. Can't that be looked at in the spirit of the arrangement? This also applies to the bottleneck of seasonal effects. These cannot be included in the NOW 3 scheme, because June is the fixed reference month there. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Even if the catering industry isn't open, people will go out at Easter. Then we're going to see pictures of overcrowded parks, where people hut at that one coffee-to-go place are waiting and the benches are overcrowded. The CDA believes that the government should engage proactively with municipalities on this issue. How are these human flows going to be regulated? I would also like a response from the Prime Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. Another thing that is frustrating for entrepreneurs is that little is done with technological innovations. Minister Van Ark indicated 25 February that there would be a discussion at the beginning of March about innovations with different companies. What are the results? Was there any mention of air cleaners there? Dutch companies export air cleaners, which can also stop corona particles, to Germany. We hear that in Germany there is even a subsidy for air cleaners. Last June I asked about the use of HEPA filters as in aircraft. This morning we understood from Mr Van Dissel that there is no practical study yet on whether air cleaners really lead to a reduction in the number of infections. Is the Minister prepared to look into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Wilders, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to ask Mr Van den Berg of the CDA Group. I have also asked her group chairman Heerma about this in recent weeks. They are, after all, non-binding words. You kept here two weeks ago, four weeks ago, six weeks ago, and again today, stories about how sorry you are that these terraces are not open and that you are very fond of the catering industry. But what exactly are you doing for the catering industry? If those caterers listen now and they hear the CDA say for the third time in six weeks... A motion by Mr Heerma has even been adopted which said: the terraces should actually open. He also pointed out the people sitting on those walls who are now back in those parks. Those are all very valid remarks, but what do you have to offer these catering entrepreneurs? What are you doing for the catering business?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	That is precisely why we have asked these questions about the NOW aid. Because the catering industry, in which most companies are seasonal companies, is now affected by the NOW 1 calculation and the NOW 3 calculation. That is why we say that we find it terrible that they still have to be closed because of the number of infections. I think everyone was looking forward to that before the Easter. But that is precisely why we want them to receive adequate support. That's why we're looking at this NOW. Secondly, we would also like to ask the Prime Minister how these Easter flows are regulated, in order to prevent people from sitting on these benches again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Of course, that doesn't help those catering companies. You know what? I'm asking questions. I do that a lot. That's what we all do here. But you're a representative of a coalition party. You cannot get away with saying every time: I ask questions or I submit a motion, and if it is not carried out, then it is a pity and then I ask questions again. You're a member of a coalition party. I ask you once again: what do you do for the catering industry, except ask questions and submit motions, and if they are not carried out, ask questions again? What's in it for the people in the catering industry? They got another headbeat from the cabinet, because they can't open. That is quite wrong. There's zero contagion outside. No one will be infected on terraces. They are indeed in that park, opposite the restaurant or the pub, the owner of that terrace. So my first question is again: what are you doing in concrete terms, apart from asking questions? And the way those crowds are stopped, that catering entrepreneur has nothing at all. What do you do for them? Why don't you come along and make sure that those parks aren't full, but those terraces can be opened in a responsible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	Firstly, because of this sad situation, we want adequate financial support. Hence my questions about the NOW 1 and the NOW 3. Of course, we would also like a solution, otherwise we would not be asking these questions. We have also heard that in the meantime we are working on a support package for companies in case they start up again; they will not be released at once. Secondly, we also want to... but you have to look at the number of infections and the burden on hospitals and ICUs. We're gonna have to find a balance. We can wait until we have enough vaccination and then take steps, or Mrs Hermans has already referred to this. We can all defeat the virus by applying the basic measures in the next few weeks. Then the virus extinguishes very quickly and then other steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	The balance is completely lost. Restaurant entrepreneurs get hit on their noses time and time again. Nothing's happening for them. The CDA only asks questions every time, so forgive me my impatience and that impatience is not only from the PVV group, but also from a lot of catering entrepreneurs, but I want to know when something is finally happening. I say to you, colleague of the CDA, that the chance of being infected outside on a terrace is so small that it is negligible. If you do it responsibly, you can. In my opinion, you believe that the people in the catering industry are responsible entrepreneurs. They can do it responsibly. And now they sit, with beautiful weather and immediately at Easter, with a closed terrace and see people sitting on the grass in a park, in a mass of 10, 20, 30 meters away. That's unfair and unnecessary, and you're just asking questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	That is precisely why we have asked questions about air cleaners, to see if companies could possibly get a lot more opportunities. And we have asked questions about regulating the flows. I agree with Mr Wilders that the risk of infection outside is considerably less, but the terraces are about people being relatively close together and increasing people's mobility very much. And that mobility also causes infections. We've been arguing for a year to work as much as possible at home. That has everything to do with mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Van den Berg spoke of a long-distance walk. I actually thought that was a romantic image. I myself have the impression that most entrepreneurs crawl through the mud with barbed wire above their heads. Every time they think "we're here," the barbed wire goes slightly lower, giving them not only scratches on their bodies, but also on their souls. I have the impression and I hear you say that you want something to be done for them. I'm glad about that, because the last extension really, really, really hurt a lot. You have literally said: do so in the spirit of the arrangement. But what the hell do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	I think that 'the spirit of the scheme' is that companies are compensated for their loss of labour costs, which they now have to bear, when they have not been able to achieve turnover. Of course, you want to avoid making improper use of it. I think that is what the regulation was about. The second important point that Minister Koolmees has stressed every time is: it is a generic regulation; it cannot be too fine-meshed, otherwise we really cannot implement it anymore. We want to see if there is another solution. Maybe you can do something generic, make a lot more of those companies get air? Indeed, we are now hearing that companies have to use January as a referee month, whereas a retail trade just in that month paid the overtime in December, or that people happened to leave in February, by themselves, not with collective redundancies, which means that companies now have to pay disproportionately much back. We want a concrete solution to this. We believe that this is becoming too detailed for this debate, but we do want it to be looked at further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	I'd really like to know more about that. Mrs Van den Berg, of course, knows better than anyone that 'in the spirit of' demands an interpretation. We work with a framework within which people implement what we have agreed here. If we do not change that framework, we cannot say to the people in the implementing organisation that we do so too often, that they must act 'in the spirit of'. That's really not enough. So if Mrs Van den Berg has another proposal, I'd love to look at it. I'm looking at that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	We have talked about this internally. I understand very well that Mr Azarkan says that you cannot just say to people in the execution: look in the spirit of it. Because then we'll have a very different debate here. But the question is this: can we change something in the generic measures so that, for example, 60% of companies do not have to pay back money now? So that's what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	Does that mean we have a proposal for that? Mr Wilders is right to say that, of course, you and your party are simply on the buttons. For now! So perhaps you can organize it behind the scenes with your colleagues. Then as an opposition, we can see if we can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	We would like an answer from the Prime Minister as to whether he wants to take part in this and whether he wants to investigate it further. And then my colleague Hilde-Palland Mulder will certainly pay more attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	My last question was about the air cleaners. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? Mr. Chairman. No matter how tired we are of corona, it remains important to stick to the basic measures. Mr Van Dissel again said this morning that only 50% of people with complaints remain at home, that less than 50% are tested for complaints and that only one third of people still regularly wash their hands. If we could do better together, the number of virus infections would fall enormously. Corona is the only way we can handle it together if we continue to work together in common. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation is still serious, and no one will deny it. Countries around us are also continuing with strict measures or more stringent measures are being taken. Many people denounce the status quo, which brings a lot of uncertainty, because there was a great deal of hope that an extension would be possible in April. But unfortunately that is not possible, looking at the figures. The only thing that's changing now is curfew. I'm happy about that. My group also agrees with the fact that the cabinet has listened to the mayors and politics and that the clock is left until 10 p.m. But of course we would like to see the curfew disappear completely, as would the many violent measures. Mr. Chairman. If we vaccinate faster and more, we can. The harbor may be in sight, but the boat we're all in seems to be slowing down. This creates irritations, including among entrepreneurs, vulnerable people and young people. And yesterday, the Minister said: we have already returned the stocks. But I don't think that's right when I look at the numbers. The prick pace does not go up but down, and that was already going on looking at the situation with AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	Could I ask the D66 colleague if she has had any contact with Mrs Kaag in recent days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	Does this mean that you will not be able to answer my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	Well, then you have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	I should have opened the question differently, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	It's always nice to answer honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	Does this mean that you cannot answer my question as to what exactly happened to Mrs Kaag of D66? And if you really don't know anything about that, even if you haven't met her, I'll ask Mr. Rutte the question. I will anyway. Mrs Kaag, your political leader and a prominent person in the cabinet on behalf of D66, said on Friday that she actually felt that curfew should be removed as soon as possible. If we can believe the media, she called Mr Rutte with a redhead on Saturday, so within 24 hours, and apologized humbly to her. He shakes his head now, he says "no" again, but that means it's "yes." That's always a bit of a constant in these years. My question to you is: what happened? Of course, a lot of people noticed that. Very big at first! Mrs Kaag said: no, we won the election; I want to make my mark on it. I get that. "Night clock gone!" So I'm thinking, well, spicy aunt, that curfew is going away. And then one day after that, she calls Rutte and she says, "I apologize, Mark, I shouldn't have done that, mistake, we're gonna agree to D66." That's what she did on Sunday. Have you not heard from your group, even if you have not spoken to Mrs Kaag, about what happened? Or is there something you can share with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	Oh, yeah. I have not spoken to Mrs Kaag myself, but I have, of course, seen the interview and also the reports in the media. Let me say this: it is no surprise that for D66 and indeed for a lot of people curfew is not a pleasant measure. In the end, we supported curfew, based on scientific advice and the threat of the British virus, which has also been released. We also see in the countries around us that these strict measures remain. But we have always said, also Mrs Kaag: look further, also look at the impact socio-economic and social. It's big when it comes to curfew and visitation arrangements. So I welcome it, especially when it comes to summer time, where it stays lighter and it becomes more difficult, especially for young people, that the cabinet has listened to the signals from the mayors and the police and that the time is being postponed. When I listen to what Minister Kaag has said, I honestly do not see any light in relation to what the Prime Minister has said. The Prime Minister has always said: the curfew is on top of the pile. I've seen Mrs Kaag's interview. She says: it is the measure that has to be taken off very quickly. They both said, if that's possible, if that's possible. So I don't see any light in that. And as for the apology, I've read the news reports about it. I'm telling you honestly, I don't know if it's true. It should not have been necessary for me either, because so far it is in line with what the cabinet finds and it happens to be very nice to do so with whatever my group thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	Madam President. I wanted Mrs Kaag here today in the debate, but I did not get any support for that. I didn't even get a reaction from most of my colleagues, except for Mr Krol, who isn't there, so I'm not getting very much further with that. But of course something else has happened, because Mrs Kaag has not argued that she will admit that herself before going into curfew an hour later. She didn't put that in her mouth at all. If you like, I can give you the quotes, because they have been public; after that Council of Ministers she said to the Dutch media: 'We have won the elections, I want to stamp them, also on the corona policy, and I think that curfew should be removed as soon as possible'. Her intention was not to extend it, that is clear. It wasn't the idea: we'll do it in six weeks. The signal was clear and she returned at her pace. She then called the Prime Minister, or saw, or do I know how that went, and said: that was a mistake of mine, I shouldn't have done that. I'm just curious: what happened? Because then you won the election, then you're either incredibly confused and you think, "What's going on?" And do you forget the reality that can happen just like that, nothing human is strange to us or she has deployed too high and she has been whistled back by Rutte in a firm way. I just want to know, and the Netherlands wants to know: what happened? Because you've always promised that curfew would go off, and now we're back with that curfew, while D66 has always said here, "We have to get rid of it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually trying to fly this thing anyway. What I have heard, and I am repeating a little bit, is that the Prime Minister has always said: on top of the pile is that curfew. Minister Kaag said 'the measure must be taken off as soon as possible', but she also said in the same interview: we need to see if it is possible, just as the Prime Minister has always said, and we still need to talk about it in the MCC and in the Cats House. That's what she actually said. There is no light between that and once again, also with her statements, because that is what Mr Wilders refers to when it comes to the size of the party she has indicated, so I interpret it, that she feels responsible. I understand that one day after the election, she feels that responsibility. There's nothing wrong with that either. I think I should be more concerned if she didn't feel that responsibility. But the most important thing, of course, is that there is political support for the measures and social support. That's what we have to do with each other, coalition and opposition. That's how I interpret it, that's how I look at the facts and of course everyone can look at it differently. That happens, you can watch the same movie and have a different conclusion or experience. That's okay, but I'm really trying very carefully, really, really hard to look at what happened. This is my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	Now this is what's vengeful. Again, I ask the D66 colleague: why did she not support my request to have the minister here? What's against that? I'm the leader of a major opposition party. Why didn't you agree and why didn't your group even have the courtesy to respond when I asked you to have Minister Kaag here? Now I have to do it with you. I don't blame you, because you're not Mrs Kaag. But I would have liked to ask Mrs Kaag herself. You didn't even have the courtesy to answer my e-mail. Now we have a problem, because it really hasn't happened as you say. You are suggesting a little bit that it went very well: Mrs Kaag made a very high effort and then she got it. But that didn't happen. She made the Netherlands appear as if the curfew would disappear after the victory of D66 and that the cabinet would decide to do so. She has been flagged back, and I want to know how that happened and why that happened, because we need to have a transparent decision-making process here. I am not getting an answer anymore, but at least answer the question why you did not allow me to get Mrs Kaag here in box K to ask her about it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think it is right for Mr Wilders to ask that question. If he has not had a reaction from my group chairman, then that is not proper. That must always be done anyway. You must always respond to requests. I can explain why we did not support the request. That is because we believe that there is no light between what Minister Kaag said and what the Prime Minister said. The cabinet is talking with one voice, and I assume that the Prime Minister will confirm this later. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. During the previous debate, we asked for a speedier pricking. The Minister has now decided on this and now he also promises to keep less stock and to increase the pace of pricking. I do ask: why couldn't this happen sooner and how many of the Pfizer vaccines are on the shelf now? The RIVM report indicates 550,000. What is the explanation for the fact that we have more stock than other European countries? When we look at the ECDC figures, it turns out that we are not really flourishing. I support Mr Wilders in that. If these figures are not correct, what did the Minister actually say yesterday? What should we assume? I would like a little more analysis as to why those figures would be wrong. Can't the lead time between the vaccine arrival and pricking be faster than a few weeks? My group once again asks this question, because every day counts. Each shot prevents 80% of hospitalizations. Then when I see the contagion rates and the next deliveries, I think we need to do this faster. That is why our motion, which we held during the previous debate, is now being put to the vote. D66 also considers it important that we ask the Health Council again for advice on the one-prick strategy and what this means for hospital admissions. A question has been asked, but I really want this to be related to the effect on hospital admissions. Then it's about testing. I saw bright people at the field lab, the festival in Biddinghuizen. People celebrated being free again and that was very good to see. But, of course, you want it to be taken a step further. This also applies to the cultural sector and the theatres. On what date will the test certificate enter and when will the promised vaccination certificate be issued? Both must be ready at the same time. That is something that my group comes back to every time. Then it's about higher education. D66 and GroenLinks have ensured that tests are carried out in higher education. That's great. How are these experiments going and what does the opening look like from mid-April? Finally, on prevention. Yesterday, the Minister briefly said something about "go for a walk." We would like greater attention to be paid to this in communication. As Mr Gommers said: move, eat well, sleep well and lose weight. These things all have a preventative effect on the virus, and that's one of the tools to get the virus underneath. My colleague Antje Diertens has, of course, paid a great deal of attention to this in her prevention paper, and it seems to me very nice and important that this is taken into account in communication, for example in the press conferences, in addition to those basic rules. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr. Chairman. "Only in adversity do you know who you really are," wrote Stefan Zweig. Only in adversity do you know who you really are. This applies to all of us as individuals, but also to our society as a whole. Mr. Chairman. We've been hit by a pandemic, physically and mentally unprecedentedly. For a year now, we've been struggling ourselves through it. We've got scars, damage. But the question is whether we're getting stronger out of this and whether we're drawing the lessons that push us so hard, because that's what they do. Solidarity with all those vulnerable young people, because it's how you deal with the most vulnerable. That's what society signs. We'll catch each other. We're ready for each other. Especially during the first wave it was impressive how everyone was on the ropes to protect the most all-, all-vulnerable. Those were the people on the ICUs back then. Now, a year later, we all know that solidarity with vulnerable people is so much wider and so much needed. Solidarity with vulnerable young people, who slowly fade behind their screens. All those people with mental problems, they're empty-handed anyway. All those people with a medical condition who still haven't been vaccinated and have been in self-isolation for a year. For the young people I ask: how is it that it is still not possible to start that higher education again? Everything's been ready for months. I remember the messages in December. Everything is ready: the universities, the colleges, the rapid tests, but it simply does not get the priority it deserves. For young people who are struggling, I ask: how is it that youth care has become a model of income for large investors and that the government does not intervene to ensure that every child gets the care it needs? Then the curfew. A lot has been said about that. A measure that weighs very, very heavily on everyone who is vulnerable. Now it seems as if this restriction of our fundamental rights has become a kind of basic measure, like handwashing or that 1.5-metre-long distance that is being used to facilitate relaxation in other sectors. All those single people who falter may not have a strong lobby towards the cabinet, as some sectors do, that is clear. But their voice must be heard. We want to hear from the cabinet whether that curfew is really the first measure to go off as soon as relaxation is possible. When does the Prime Minister think that is really the case? In the letters we really do not see any of that. Mr. Chairman. Solidarity with the most vulnerable also applies to vaccination. How is it that people with underlying suffering, whose children have often been at home for a year and are in isolation, are perhaps pricked later than healthy 40s, who are so immediately on? I would like to ask the Minister: arrange this for the next debate! We must have a strategy that will give this group the attention and care they deserve. A year of adversity is hard. Misfortunes are heavy and we've been muzzled after six months of lockdown. We can then become cynical, lose faith in the government and in each other and turn our backs on society, which we often see happen. But we can also hold on to each other, show resilience and learn the most important lessons of corona. The most important lesson I've learned personally is that a year of living with a pandemic like corona says something about our disturbed relationship with nature. Deforestation, wildlife trade, our intensive livestock farming: these are the real causes of the pandemic, the zoonoses we are now facing. I'd like us to put an end to that. All signals are red. We are on a collision course with the climate and nature. Let us use this period with resilience to rebuild our society in balance with nature. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. Poor dies twice as often as rich. Poor dies twice as often as rich. In the first wave of the corona crisis it appeared that people in the low income category die twice as often from the COVID-19 virus as people in the highest income category. If you look at the figures for people under 70 years of age, it's even three times as much. The 20% poorest Dutch have three times three times three times! As much chance of dying of corona as the 20% richest Dutch. These figures came from the Central Bureau of Statistics yesterday. I really do not understand where the indignation is about this. Of course it's not a surprise. We all knew this a long time ago. We knew that inequality is great in the Netherlands and that the corona virus only underlines it. But even if it isn't a surprise, where is the indignation? All the previous speakers didn't say anything about it. Yesterday we had the press conference. More than an hour. I don't think I was the only one wondering what the news was from that press conference. It was just about curfew and that had already been leaked. Not a word about this. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister why not. Why can't we ever hear him talk about this? What does he think? And more importantly, what does he intend to do about it? He is now taking the lead in the new formation, but when we say that we need to get through the corona crisis socially, is he prepared to tackle fundamental equality in the Netherlands? Is he prepared to put tackling the socio-economic health inequalities at the top of the list? I'd like to hear more about that. Mr. Chairman. The figures on the number of infections are not good. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. But I also wonder what inspired the Prime Minister when he said at the previous debate and the previous press conference: well, we hope that we can all sit on a terrace at Easter. What was that, I wonder, because the figures didn't look good at the time. Even then, the predictions about the third wave were already on the table in full scope. What was wrong with the Prime Minister? Was that sometimes the election fever, I wondered out loud, because the day after the elections it turned out that nothing could actually be done at all. The elections were on March 17, last Wednesday. I don't know if you remember what was going on on 17 March last year, but then we all applauded our caregivers for minutes. That was March 17th last year. That was right, because the caregivers were and are at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus, not rarely at risk for their own health because they have insufficient protective means. But how sad is it that we've been a year? Last week on 17 March we were all allowed to vote. On March 17th, a year ago, we applauded our caregivers. How sad is it that these caregivers, who now have to and will be there again in the third wave, are already under such pressure that they still have to do it with applause and a once-in-a-lifetime bonus? And not with the structural wage increase that it deserves and which was also supported by the majority of the House of Representatives here that was a proposal from me together with Mr Asscher............................................................................................................................................................................................................. So again the appeal to the cabinet. Is it prepared to work on this now, because our caregivers deserve it, but also because it is irresponsible given the large deficits we have in the care care sector, there are a lot of extra people needed if the salaries in the care are not going up? The corona virus hits all of us, but not all of us. That's what it's been about for a while. There are also companies that just make big profits in this corona crisis. We all know the supermarkets and the delivery companies, but also the makers of the corona vaccines. I would also like to ask the cabinet. What does the Cabinet think about the fact that, for example, such a Pfizer claims to expect 4 billion dollars of profit, which is 30% more to be made on vaccines? Those vaccines, if I may say so, are often developed with public money, taxpayers' money, our money. The creators of it are going to cash out. How does the cabinet feel about that? Is the Cabinet prepared to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. We've been in this pandemic for a year now. We've had to get used to living in a society with corona, but it never gets used to. Empty pubs, shops and theatres, and the discrepancy we all notice in our contacts. What does not get used to is the jojo policy of this cabinet, a recurring phenomenon in this crisis. Take the curfew. The cow business with an hour earlier and half an hour later has been back away. We heard the Prime Minister say a few weeks ago that it had absolutely no effect after 9 p.m. Minister Grapperhaus said the curfew will disappear as the first measure. On Friday, we heard another minister say that the curfew had to be removed as soon as possible, but it was extended again. It's beyond comprehension. In doing so, the cabinet undermines the support for the measures. That is a big problem for all of us: the cabinet promises a lot, but does not deliver enough. I called it 'jojo' with the curfew, but I also mean the prospect of relaxation a few weeks ago, when everyone could already sense that the chance that they would be implemented was extremely small. The worst of all is perhaps the slow vaccination, while vaccination is the only way out of this crisis. At the end of December the first vaccine was approved and four months later our vaccination policy is still a mess. 'Cause who's entitled to a shot now? When's your turn? Patients and doctors can't control it. The pricks that remain at the end of the day still end up in the wrong arms. As early as four weeks ago, Minister De Jonge promised that there would be a clear strategy for pivoting. He's still not here. Minister De Jonge also promised to get better after a difficult start. The Netherlands would make a catch-up, but what turns out? We're still dangling, or again, at the bottom of all the lists. We all wonder: why do other countries succeed and the Netherlands always fail? In April, according to the Minister, we're going to prick 2.5 million a week. How does he think he's gonna keep that promise? I'd like a precise explanation. The hospitals of course also feel the urgency and have offered to help with pricking. But they don't use it. Why not? Why are there hundreds of thousands of vaccines unused in storage? Can the Minister still guarantee that all 60-plusers were vaccinated in May and that everyone received at least one shot before 1 July? It is clear that if we want to get out of this crisis quickly, the pace of pricking needs to be dramatically increased. Mr. Chairman. This week we saw the confirmation of what we actually knew: corona strikes harder with people who are vulnerable and have less to spend. These are not symptoms of a health crisis. These are symptoms of an inequality crisis. What is the Cabinet going to do about this? We have repeatedly asked for a social recovery plan to be drawn up. It's high time this happened. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. This week we saw that multinationals, which have held up their hands in the Netherlands for state aid, still pay hundreds of millions of euros in profits to shareholders abroad. That's not what our tax dollars are for. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how and when he's going to recover that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation two weeks ago was already fragile and unfortunately has not developed in the right direction. There are now fuller hospitals and fuller ic's, and the R-number is above 1. In doing so, the Christian Union Group also sees that caution is needed and that relaxation is not the issue at present. This morning I was at the technical briefing and there was uncertainty trump. I'd like to hear from the cabinet what the short-term perspective is. Are the ICUs gonna be overcrowded in a couple of weeks if the R doesn't go down? Better to be clear now than to hope against better knowledge! The wretched thing is that people in a socio-economically weaker position are twice as likely to die from corona. The Central Bureau of Statistics and the Amsterdam UMC show that health differences, a smaller housing and work that cannot be done at home all result in more risk of infection and more risk of death. And that in a prosperous country like the Netherlands! I'd like a response from the cabinet on this. Mr. Chairman. Despite the far-reaching measures, the spread continues. There is a permanent high occupancy in the hospitals and also a third wave, while the staff is exhausted. Against this background, I see that the effectiveness of action seems to be somewhat developed. How are we holding up? How do we ensure more urgency and better compliance? It is important that we do not lose the battle between virus and vaccine. Mr. Chairman. Curfew shifts an hour to 10:00. I have also heard the call from the police, the mayors and the security regions, and I agree with that. How does this fit in with the Prime Minister's statement on 21 January that the effectiveness of curfew is greatly reduced if you allow curfew to enter at 10:00 p.m. in the evening? I'd like an explanation. Then I have one more question about the shops. I see a lot of shopkeepers work with time blocks. Online or by phone you can reserve a time block. If it is conceivable in these situations that the four-hour waiting period should be allowed to lapse, I ask the cabinet. TU Eindhoven has developed a method to significantly reduce possible contamination by aerosols in indoor spaces. This is now a matter of urgency for practical trials to begin. Mrs van den Berg also spoke about this. Is VWS going to order this, too? Mr. Chairman. We often talk about measures, but a measure that everyone can take is healthy living, prevention, taking a walk. I, too, like Mrs Bergkamp, ask the cabinet to draw attention in all communications, such as the press conference, to what people themselves can do to increase their resistance. If it is not properly substantiated, the extension or not of all these measures is an attack on public confidence in the government. I call on the Cabinet to continue to communicate transparently and to share the considerations with the citizens in an accessible manner. At the same time, I ask the Cabinet to continue to act from the perspective of trust in citizens, civil society organisations and entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a few more questions about vaccination. Can the Minister of VWS explain why vaccination is slowing down? I'm not getting sharp whether it's the vaccine delivery, the G.G.D.'s puncture capacity or anything else. Pfizer's supply is being further reduced, and that seems to us to be wise. But how are the group 75- to 79-year-olds now? On March 6th, the first invitations for this group fell on the doormat, but only 15% have been pricked for three weeks. What's taking so long? What about the production site HALIX from Leiden? All the papers write about it. How many vaccines are available when and for whom? In view of the most vulnerable per cohort called for vaccination, are there any possibilities of making a reserve list for people from the same cohort who, for example, are worst off by one year of home isolation? This is how we help people and prevent spilling. Something similar is happening in Belgium. Finally, Mr President. I believe that we as a country have an international responsibility, and I therefore call on the Cabinet to work for a fair distribution of vaccines worldwide and to raise this issue in the European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. The virus won't let us go for a while. Contaminations and hospitalizations are rising. The cabinet rightly pays attention to this reality. But at the same time, we see that this long-term lockdown only increases the high pressure on society. Is it real to expect people to comply with all these rules for another two months? My group still lacks the broader consideration of the impact of the measures on people and on their behaviour. We see that more and more people are looking up the edges. How can we make compliance with the basic rules more attractive? How can we ensure that people stick to it better and that it offers a better perspective? The cabinet still does not consider one day of physical lessons per week for higher education. Students are allowed to go to the Action, but they're still not going to college. Such choices continue to amaze the Party for Animals. We therefore call on the cabinet once again to allow one day of physical lessons per week starting today. This has to be different. Then there's the vaccination strategy. We hear experts say that the lockdown might be shortened if we volunteer much faster. Just as D66 pointed out, we are also looking forward to what we can do with the strategy to give just one shot for the time being. We see in other countries that this still works and has led to fewer hospitalisations. Isn't it wise to look at that again to see if it can set an acceleration in motion? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, from research, the SP also spoke about the fact that the health gap between rich and poor has widened during this crisis. People with low incomes are particularly at risk of becoming infected and dying. This group also started to move less during the corona crisis, while this part of the population already has a worse overall health. This health promotion is more important than ever, especially in order to tackle this inequality. When will the cabinet look beyond this crisis and really protect public health in the long term? 60 million has now been committed to prevention. That's fine, but that's not nearly enough to really tackle this problem. I'm moving on to NVWA. Two weeks ago, for the umpteenth time, the Corona Directives were not complied with in slaughterhouses and employees were at great risk of infection. The result is that the corona contamination in slaughterhouses is getting huge again. There is at present even a slaughterhouse with at least 32 infections. The NVWA therefore wrote that from now on there would be action in the event of a violation. But then what happened so far? Didn't there occur? Nothing's been done? The Court has repeatedly called for compliance with the directives to be enforced. Then how is it possible that there is another outbreak in this sector? We therefore ask once again: when is the intervention now taking place? A motion has been passed on that. There's got to be a reporting obligation. Come on! This can't go on any longer. Finally, the resistant fungi. Disease-provoking fungi become resistant to medication because ornamental plants use certain substances as agricultural poison, precisely to fight that fungus. That is dangerous, we know, because in intensive care, a patient who comes into contact with that resistant fungus has an 80% chance of dying. The Chamber has already called on the cabinet to remove the agricultural poison that causes this resistance from the market as soon as possible. And yet today the Minister of LNV is voting in a European consultation for the extension of the authorisation of these specific agricultural poisons. I can't believe this is happening today. We would therefore like to know what she thinks of this from the Minister for Medical Care. How is it that we agree not to want this agricultural poison anymore and that her colleague from LNV is now saying yes to this very dangerous poison?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	Madam President. When I was in military service, I was a tank commander. I was surprised how many rules and checks had to be carried out before such a tank could move. The effect of this was that every driver who had the responsibility took his own rules to be responsible. I wonder if, after a year of living with corona, we do not see anything similar in the fight against the corona virus. Compliance with the basic rules has been declining for months and, in response to this, even stricter rules are being introduced, understandably. But isn't it the effect that people sometimes start to implement the rules themselves and make their own choices? The latter applies, for example, to the visit advice. People often experience this measure as illogical and inexplicable. This is also evident from the states we saw on this: the basis of support and compliance are low. I therefore wonder whether it would not be wise to adapt the visit advice to one household per day or two people per day. According to behavioral scientists, this would lead to more compliance, support and well-being. This would, however paradoxically, make it easier for the virus to be combated by smart adaptation. I would also like to extend this: limited accumulation of rules calls more on own responsibility and is more committed to improving compliance with the basic rules. With this, there is still a lot of profit to be gained, and I am also distracting from this morning's technical briefing. RIVM's projections don't look good. At the same time, the margins of uncertainty are large. It can be very disappointing, but it's also not that bad. We don't know. Luckily, somber predictions earlier this year didn't always come true. That also makes modest. The SGP believes that we should see how we can live with the virus as responsibly as possible in the coming months. For example, focus more on the possibilities of air filtering. I understand that in the context of the field labs tests are taking place with ionization. What results has this produced? And when will it become clearer to what extent aerosols play a role in the spread of the virus? It does matter for the measures you're taking. The SGP also wonders what opportunities exist for outdoor activities. A stroll through the park is better than a night on the couch. Even now that spring has begun, it is still forbidden to be on the streets with more than two people. Isn't it time to refine such a measure? It is also high time there was more room for local higher education. Why don't we make more use of customization and location distribution already? I'm worried about special education. There are children with severe multiple restrictions who have only been to school once in a while since December, so that the situation at home can become very difficult, even unmanageable. What is the perspective that can be offered here? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the hospitality sector. In the past year, the catering industry has been closed for no less than eight months. That's dramatic for many entrepreneurs. I have noticed during work visits that they sometimes see so many possibilities for very modest customisation with partial opening up. Couldn't there be more room in that? Then I have one final question: why can't catering establishments as a space restaurant room also be used as a wedding location? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The press conference yesterday could have been a lot shorter. I believe that the Prime Minister could have indicated that everything he promised, so coincidentally just before the elections, was not going to be carried out. The gyms stay closed, the catering industry stays locked and the curfew remains intact, except for an hour. This is impossible for more and more Dutch people. Being locked in your house, not being able to work out, missing social contact: the measures are getting stronger and the consequences are getting worse. Previously, DENK has called for the OMT to be extended to include social scientists. The social impact of the lockdown and how society is going to react to it must be taken into account. We saw in Germany what would happen if this were not sufficiently taken into account. Merkel had to come back to the strict lockdown because there was not enough support for it. Mr. Chairman. DENK wants targeted measures to alleviate suffering in society, first of all by abolishing curfew. Rutte has promised us time and time again that the curfew would go off first and over and over again he will not keep that promise. The curfew is not proven effective and a far too great restriction of freedom. Why are you holding on to that curfew? Mr. Chairman. The gyms can also be open as far as DENK is concerned. Diederik Gommers has also recently indicated that there is too much focus on keeping people in and too little on being outdoors and outdoor sports. Sports ensure that people are healthier and thus build up a higher resistance. Sporting also ensures much needed positivity and distraction in these difficult times. Mr. Chairman. For DENK it is also incomprehensible that students in higher education have to wait another five weeks before they can finally go back to local education. That distance education and being hung up in the house are just a disaster for our young people. I also notice in my surroundings that more and more young people, especially the freshmen, are dropping out. They've been through nothing but this. It is true, I ask the Prime Minister, that in the autumn, higher education was in an excellent way open and there were no fireplaces? Why do we keep these kids waiting for another five weeks? Mr. Chairman. The vaccination policy is flawed on all sides, just like the test policy, the source and contact research and the corona app. On the one hand, we have 700,000 vaccines unused and, on the other hand, we have GD'ers twisting their thumbs. Minister De Jonge's policy is again not working out well. Finally, Mr President. Soon the holy month Ramadan will begin for the Muslims. We saw that Aboutaleb put away 1 million Muslims with a somewhat unfortunate statement as people who have trouble with the rules. We saw Wilders and other xenophobic politicians use that to spit their Muslim hatred. Let me say a few things about that. Muslims don't need Aboutaleb or Wilders to speak for them. They can do it themselves. For the way in which mosques in the previous lockdown, in corona time, took account of the regulations out of their own responsibility, I have tremendous respect. I do have concerns about Ramadan and curfew, because during Ramadan it is important for Muslims to perform evening prayer, or Taraweeh prayer. This is impossible due to the extension of curfew until April 20th. How is the government going to ensure that Dutch Muslims during the Ramadan can somehow use their fundamental right to confess their religion in a responsible way, so that they can perform the Taraweeh prayer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There we are, late March, in a third wave. There are around 6,000 to 7,000 infections per day and the R-number is well above 1. What does the Cabinet do? The cabinet's gonna relax. We're going to move the curfew for an hour to make it possible for people to visit each other. Then how are we going to turn the tide? Compared to January, a quarter more people return to the office. That's what mobility data from Google shows. People seem to give it much less urgency. This is also apparent from the fact that 50% of people with complaints simply go outside and do not get tested. How is the Minister going to make it clear that this is really not the intention? During the press conference, you didn't talk about working at home either. The vaccinations aren't going well either. We were in fourth place in Europe for a while, but by now we are already down to the 23rd place. What's that all about? What is the Minister going to do to speed up vaccinations, because the most important way to reduce the number of infections is to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate. But instead of vaccinating more, the rate of vaccination of the elderly has only decreased. However, it was promised to accelerate. Soothings are only really possible after the 60-plussers have been vaccinated. But what is the reality now? A third of the 90-plussers have still not been vaccinated. Of the group 75 years up to 79 years 85% have not yet been vaccinated. At the current rate it takes the last group about ten weeks before they are finished. In other words, the group can only start somewhere in June 70 years to 74 years. How can Minister De Jonge then promise that the 70-plussers have already had a first shot at the end of April or early May? The hospitals have offered to help with vaccination. The GGD rejected this offer, because they claim to have sufficient capacity. I urge the Minister to accept that offer. Mr. Chairman. During the previous debate, the Minister explicitly stated that it would not be a problem if couples were vaccinated at the same time, even if they differ in age. As an example, I mentioned a 78-year-old married to an 81-year-old. According to the Minister, it was no problem that they fell into another group. In the meantime, it appears that this is a problem. It depends on the kindness of the person you get on the phone at the GD. It's completely random. Call center employees say the instructions are different. It is mentioned in the letter, but my appeal to the Minister is to be clear again and also to give clear instructions to the call centre staff. There is rightly a great deal of attention to the mental and physical health of elderly people, but many elderly people and people with disabilities have just been mentioned about this. They have nowhere to go. Their mobility and mental health are deteriorating and social networks are falling apart. For the elderly, it is much harder to rebuild this. The cabinet recently made 200 million available for a social support package aimed at social and mental well-being and a healthy lifestyle. It would be good if we had some sort of reactivation programme for the elderly after vaccination from this budget. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, the support measures. It surprises 50PLUS that when one of the partners receives Tozo, the other partner has to add half of the support to his income, pay taxes on it and even lose bonuses due to the addition. That's not supposed to happen, is it? If you let the partner of an independent pay extra tax for corona support, that's pulling on both sides of the rope. It's throttle and brake at the same time. This puts stakeholders at the level of their household in financial difficulties. That is unfair in our view, because the Tozo is needed as a result of restrictive corona measures by the government. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. The elections were a choice between freedom and fear. Freedom for young people, students and elderly people who have had no normal life for a year and freedom for entrepreneurs who have not been earning dry bread for a year. It is fear of a virus that the RIVM also says is similar to a strong flu. This fear imposed by the government has translated into all kinds of incomprehensible measures. While most infections occur indoors, we were instructed to stay indoors. While masks don't work and even lead to bacterial infections, we were given a mouth cap duty. While most corona patients are overweight, the government shut down the gyms and McDonald's just remained open. While 2.9% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry, the catering industry closed. While healthy people under 70 years of age are hardly at risk, this government wants to vaccinate the whole of the Netherlands. And while children are virtually in no danger, they are victims of the school closures, the mouth cap and the test policy. And while our Prime Minister states that a curfew starting after 9:00 p.m. does not work, our Islamic compatriots are embarrassed by being abused for an hour later in curfew to celebrate Ramadan. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, a lot of people have chosen freedom, people who just want to celebrate Christmas, Passover or Ramadan. Unfortunately, however, many more people opted for social disruption, for an economic implosion of SMEs and for medical collateral damage that cannot be foreseen. They chose a curfew, a lockdown, 1.5 meters away and mouth caps! Unfortunately, it's no different. And yet we continue to expose this corona policy, because if there was a potentially dangerous virus anywhere in the Netherlands, this minister would have no problem making the RIVM models public. That is why my question, which I have asked a number of times before and on which a motion from Mr Kuzu and myself was adopted on 24 February: when are we going to get these models? And I mean the software and not a reference to some article or what is now on the RIVM site. Trust in the government would be better served by this. After all, it cannot be explained that the models predicted that there would be 1,700 people on the ic and that we only managed to prevent this with a curfew. Mr. Chairman. The curfew is overtaken by summer time. People go out again and just want to be able to grab a terrace. I hear our Prime Minister sputtering: yes, of course I do, but the virus doesn't want it. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how many infections there were to trace to the terraces. Has it been investigated at all? And is it an option to help the catering industry, which is being destroyed by this cabinet, by at least throwing the terraces open again? The catering industry has been closed for a very long time now and if you hadn't had a salary for a year, you might have had a little more compassion. Mr. Chairman. A very fundamental point, namely the freedom to demonstrate. As far as we are concerned, the display of power by the mayors in The Hague and Amsterdam, among others, goes far too far. Peaceful protesters are being battered by the mobile unit and our rule of law is being trampled on. If you put your head above the Malie Field, it will be cut off immediately. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is at least worrying? And why is this being dealt with so hard and what risk is it actually mitigated? You've seen the videos yourself. Do you really think this has anything to do with the fight against COVID-19? Mr. Chairman. The election results are a fact, and I am more combative here than ever before. 500,000 freedom fighters voted for the Forum for Democracy, and that is a huge support. 500,000 people rejecting the new normal. People who shouldn't have anything of built back better, who shouldn't have anything of all that supranational nonsense of unelected bad guys who want to turn us into brainless lemmings in 2030, obsessively into the loss of individual freedom, exchanged for collective imprisonment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Van Haga, Mrs. Dik-Faber has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Haga. Of course I understand his plea very well. I want to drink a wine on a terrace myself. I remember a day of shopping with friends in Amsterdam. You can't do all that right now. I'm so sorry about that. But when we look at other countries, we see that care is going to turn if you are too fast softening or are late with measures. People who work in health care can't handle the work anymore. Ic beds are full. My question to Mr Van Haga is: how does he weigh the dilemma between, on the one hand, the opportunities for people in our society and, on the other hand, the people who work in care and the people who appeal to care? As far as I am concerned, and hopefully as far as Mr Van Haga is concerned, that is also a great concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	That's a good question. Thank you for asking. On the one hand, you may wonder if it's all true. The figures show that these measures almost never achieve any results. On the other hand, the question I am asking is: has the effect of opening the terraces been properly investigated? Does the cabinet have that in mind at all? The cabinet didn't have it on the masks, the 1.5 meters, the curfew and the lockdown either. It's never shown the collateral damage. It has never calculated the social, emotional, cultural, medical and economic effects. My question to the cabinet is: would it be a huge relief for the catering industry to open the terraces; do you have any idea what the risk of infection is? If so, we can think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	From the individual perspective, it is very well defendable that we go back to a terrace. From the perspective of the individual entrepreneur and the individual person who sits on the terrace, that would be justifiable. But the point is: all the restaurants open, all people get in the car or public transport and sit on that terrace with their friends. No matter how much I crave that, we know with each other, I just repeat my question: this leads to an increase in the number of infections. If that is the case, my question to Mr Van Haga is again: what do you say to the people who work in healthcare and to the people who appeal to care? You're talking about your freedom fighters, but I'm talking about the warriors in care who are fighting to provide the necessary care for everyone. Sitting on a terrace is not free. If I know that if I sit on a terrace, it leads to the situation where someone can no longer go to hospital, then I am prepared to take responsibility. This is a real dilemma. We're looking for a way out of here. I find it really too easy for Mr Van Haga to say: open everything up; we have our freedom back. What do you say to the people in the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	Once again, if measures are taken or if lighting is involved, we need to identify, we need to measure and calculate what these measures will have to do. That's one side of the story. We just talked about that. On the other hand, for a year we had time to scale up the care, to double the number of ic-beds, to build a coronah hospital, to put a covid ship on the quay. We didn't do any of that. I agree with you that, if there were to be a major peak, we would indeed have a cabinet that has really done nothing to scale up the care. That's a problem. We could have done that. But in addition to that, if we could open the terraces, does the cabinet have any idea about the risk of infection? You can say: but that leads to more transport movements. No, that's not enough. That is your opinion and this is my opinion. I'm just asking a question: has the cabinet scientifically mapped this out and are there any figures of it? If not, then it remains an opinion and we are just a bit in the air cycling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	Yes, Chairman, finally. Mr Van Haga asked the cabinet his question. But I note that Mr Van Haga is not answering my question. He says the cabinet hasn't done anything about scaling up. I think the care is scaled up. Only, we don't have the people. If Mr Van Haga can tell us where all these new colleagues are to come from, I would be glad to hear it. Those people in care aren't here. Everyone walks out of their feet. What do you say to all those people in care who are now running out of their feet and running even faster? Actually, it can't be, as soon as the terraces and shops start opening again. I still don't have an answer, but I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	In 2015 we had 2,200 ic-beds; we now have 1,100. We scaled up a little bit. In some countries you have solutions such as building coronah hospitals, in others you have solutions where one ic nurse serves three or four beds, with the support of other physicians. There are countless solutions, but this cabinet is not doing anything about it. It's possible, but it won't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	I would like to support my colleague Carla Dik-Faber. Because when I hear your story like that, I also think of the images from Brazil or Chile, for example. That's where it's greatly underestimated. Everything's been released and you're looking at really terrible situations right now. When I hear Mr Haga's speech, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	From Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	Ván Haga, sorry. When I hear "all open," I wonder what the consequences are. So my question to Mr Ván Haga is what measures he would like to propose. Because you don't want to take responsibility from the government. You don't want to be Chile, you don't want to be Brazil.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	You can put a few other countries against that. There's nothing going on in China now. I believe that is now having an economic growth rate of 4.7%. In 16 different states in the United States, they are now relaxing. Sixteen states no longer have an obligation to protect their mouths. Florida hasn't done anything at all, it's been dealt with in a very different way. In Sweden they have kept some distance, but left responsibility to the individual. They have no economic damage. They don't have a hospitality company that's exploded. They don't have shopkeepers of non-essential items that go head-down. I wonder, then, perhaps I ought to put the question back: should we also look at not only Brazil but also Sweden or Florida, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	Let me return to the question: does Mr Van Haga really want there to be no measures at all? I'll ask him what it takes. He comes up with a comparison with other countries. Well, I've mentioned other examples. Then, of course, you can go against other countries, but my question is: what measures would Mr Van Haga propose? What would this cabinet do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	Well, look, the proposal we've been making for a year is protecting the vulnerable, scaling up care and releasing the rest of the Netherlands. That's our solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Van Haga always talks about scientific evidence, but there is absolutely no scientific basis in Mr Van Haga's story. I also think it is a dangerous story, looking at the images from Chile or Brazil, which I was just talking about. That's where you can see the hospitals are defecting. So, yeah, that's kind of a scare. I don't really hear Mr Van Haga come up with a nuance. It is either the story of Mr Van Haga or that of the cabinet and there is nothing at all in between. One final question. Does Mr Van Haga never have any doubts about his own story when he sees that footage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yes, of course. It's very good to always doubt. Medical science doesn't stand still, science doesn't at all, that's a very liquid story. In China at first they also thought it was a huge, ebola-like virus and they were totally freaked out, but by now they're just letting go of everything again. That's what they thought in India. Big lockdowns, but then they started using remdesivir and ivermectin and now there's nothing going on and the economy is going on. Of course you're not sure. The WTO also has doubts. The WHO constantly changes its data on the website. If I post the new data on LinkedIn, I will be deleted from LinkedIn because LinkedIn is still working on the old data. Of course there's doubt. But if you look at countries that are doing really well, like Sweden or Florida, I would say: well, we can learn from that. Because the collateral damage is much less there and their solution is much more humane.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mrs. Sazias. At least... you want to ask a question, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yes, Mr President, because I often hear Mr Van Haga say this and I am curious about it. You're talking about protecting the vulnerable. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	This means that you do not put 17,5 million people in lockdown, but ask people who are vulnerable, for example, who are over 80 years of age and who are morbidly obese or suffer other underlying suffering, to keep their distance. And you can facilitate that. You could say, for example, that we can arrange that they can shop at certain times and that sort of thing. That's a plan you can think about. I believe that this is also good work in a number of countries. That's a reverse lockdown. That situation is far less harmful than what we are doing now. This is one size fits all: fine, everyone in lockdown, everyone a curfew, everyone such a stupid mouth cover. But there's another way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	But that would mean that we have to isolate that group of vulnerable people over 80, but that's actually starting to be over 60 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	Well, it starts over 70, I guess. Under 70 you actually have almost no risk, but if you are over 70 and suffer underlying suffering, then surely. Then you should be careful, because it's not nothing. It's a dangerous virus, similar to a very strong flu, so if you're in that category, you should be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	I understand from this that Mr. Van Haga wants to lock up a very large population, so that the rest can be released. But that means really locking up, because then there can be no more contact. That's not something I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think you should leave that to the people themselves. I know a lot of elderly people who do not like this solution of the cabinet at all, because they no longer see their grandchildren and spend their last years in absolute loneliness. So I think that the optimum for society is something other than this lockdown, which is very rigid and applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	Finally, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	But according to your plan, they can't see their grandchildren at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	Of course I do. They can decide that for themselves, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	First of all, I would like to point out to Mr Van Haga that in Florida, which was mentioned as a shining example, there were 5 000 new cases yesterday, there are 43 new deaths and there is a massive increase in the virus. Does Mr Van Haga really think that everything is going great and that the Minister should take an example of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	This is always funny, with all those absolute numbers. Then you'll have to relate that. You need to normalize it to the number of people living there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	20 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	Yeah, that's similar to the Netherlands. So that's incredibly small compared to the number of cancer patients or the number of patients with cardiovascular disease. And yes, I will return the question: are you aware of how many undiagnosed cancer patients and untreated patients with cardiovascular disease are in the Netherlands? That huge tsunami has yet to come. That is the result of a policy in which we seem to prefer people with corona and not the medical assessment of who really needs it most and what is the largest group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	I'm aware that we have a huge problem with waiting lists. I am aware of the fact that we miss people and that people are at risk of dying and dying because our care is overwhelmed by corona. That is why I am pleased that I am with a party that supports all measures to contain this corona virus as much as possible. That's exactly what we're doing it for. We're doing it for those people who risk dying of cancer otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	Maybe your party would have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	Sorry, this is the moment when I can ask Mr Van Haga a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u112	If you say you're so serious about freedom and protecting people who die from cancer differently, then I really don't understand why there's no clear story about how the Netherlands would actually protect people if it had been Minister Van Haga who had been there in trade-K. There's not gonna be a story like that. There's gonna be empty election talk and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u113	Well, no, on the contrary. You're gonna see a reverse lockdown. Then you're gonna protect the vulnerable. We would have had three times as many ic-beds by now and the rest of the Dutch would have been free again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u114	Then Mr Van Haga does not recognise that even under younger age groups people are getting sick and dying of it? In Florida we are currently dealing with 30s and 40s who are infected. There is no group in society that is invulnerable to corona. Isn't that exactly the whole problem with this pandemic we're struggling with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u115	No, that's not exactly the big deal. The big problem is that this distribution is very clear. When you're over 70, you've got a pretty good chance of dying of it when you're suffering from underlying suffering, morbid obesity, diabetes, and stuff like that. But 30s and 40s... I'm sure you can come up with some examples, but that's casuistic. Procentially, that's marginal. Negligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u118	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you, Mr President. The third wave is a fact and a fourth wave is already warned in the summer if measures are relaxed too quickly. Compliance with the basic measures would, according to RIVM, bring the R below 1 and the Cabinet should do everything it can to continue communicating the basic measures as the way out of the crisis, even more important than all lockdown measures put together. Why is the cabinet not following the communication advice of the RIVM's behavior unit? Mr. Chairman. What's gonna happen in the next few months? Can the cabinet now be crystal clear about the exit strategy in the medium and long term with a view to summer and, above all, beyond? Isn't it better for all of us, if vaccination finally gets on steam, to choose the British strategy so that everyone knows what's going to happen in the next few months? Mr. Chairman. Is there a plan ready after mass vaccination? For example, children and young people do not yet have access to vaccination. This creates risks for them, but also for society. Is there any insight into the health damage that that will cause? Is it not now the right time to reform the policy? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet remains stubborn. The Roadmap is being misused. They're sent to hospital at the highest level. That is very risky, not least because there is increasing covid care outside the hospital through neighbourhood care and general practitioners. That's a distorted image. Are you sure there's enough eyes on it? Does the Minister have any figures on that? To what extent is the pressure on care outside the hospital monitored? Mr President, finally, my vote on the FFP2 masks in the whole area of concern. What's the status of that? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr Van Haga has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has single-handedly provided a bonus of €1,000 per employee in healthcare. I was wondering how much was paid in the end and how many people eventually got that bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u122	The last status... I think it's an interesting question. What I know about that is that no less than 2.2 billion for the €1,000 health bonus has been made available to the staff at the first wave................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I would ask all the groups that will be sitting in the Chamber in the coming years to ensure in the coming months that everyone who is entitled to the health bonus actually gets it. I would have done that, but I'm afraid I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u123	I want to make a big compliment for that. Of course, the two of us were tucked away in a far hallway in the Chamber. I'm so sorry you're not coming back. There are few brave warriors in the Chamber and you are one of them, so all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten Arissen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend until about six o'clock. Then it's combined with dinner break. A little early, but it's possible, isn't it? Until 6:15? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u126	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr President, thank you. Unfortunately, the figures are what they are and therefore there is no room for the small further risks we would have liked to take. Of course, we've already taken some risks at the end of February. We had hoped that we could take a few small steps again taking into account risks, but they are really too big now. You can see that that space just isn't there right now. Against that background, questions have been asked about, among other things, curfew. Also about other things, but also about curfew. For that, it would have been better to keep it at 9 p.m. That's obvious. At the same time, we see that both the Security Council and the police say, including from the enforcement point of view, that this is becoming increasingly difficult when it gradually shines. That will, of course, have an effect. That's not entirely accurate. That's what Professor Van Dissel explained at the hearing this afternoon, I think. That, of course, always has some effect, as I said in January. We still think that curfew is important. The OMT also advises us to continue with this, unfortunately. Of course, it's one you want to get rid of as soon as possible. Religion has not played a role in this, by the way. I saw the statements of Aboutaleb, but I saw later, yesterday, also the nuance on the Telegraph site. I think he has also clearly explained that it was not his intention to give the impression that he would want to have that curfew gone or later because of the Ramadan, Pesach or any other religious festival. I think he nuded that well. Again, at least that did not play a role for us. You can see in the Catshuis pieces that this is a point of interest, but it has then played no role in the decision-making process. The reason is indeed the advice of the Security Council and the police, who say that it will be very complex from enforcement if we still have that curfew if it isn't dark anymore. Mr. Chairman. If I may say one more thing about Ramadan, in the direction of Mr Azarkan. I understand very well that there is a need for everything in the Ramadan context, but that is simply not possible. So also for this reason, a religious caretaker may be necessary for reasons of work in a mosque, but not the members of the congregation themselves. That is really what we strongly advise against, and moreover, when it comes to curfew, it is even forbidden to be there. We understand, of course, that people prefer to do their religious activities in their own prayer house, mosque or whatever it is, but that is simply not possible. That's the tragedy of the virus. The same applies to Islam in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The question of curfew and the need, unfortunately, to extend the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Aboutaleb wasn't talking about Pesach, you know. I can assure the Prime Minister of that. But you've served him well. You gave him his way about the Ramadan. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask a question about Mrs Kaag, because I did not receive an answer and my colleagues do not allow me to have her present today. I have just had an interrupting debate with my colleague from D66 and I would also like to ask the Prime Minister. According to the media, De Telegraaf and RTL, Mrs Kaag has expressed regret at a number of ministers. That statement reads as follows: that curfew must be removed very quickly. That's what Mrs Kaag said in front of a lot of cameras. According to the media, it has informed a number of ministers this weekend that it has gone a little too short and has expressed its regret. Is there anything you know about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u129	I don't know about other ministers. She called me, she didn't apologize, she didn't apologize, but she said that, like everyone else, she's had enough of that curfew. She said, you know, given the contagion rates, it's probably necessary that we continue with that in some form. That is ultimately the outcome of the discussions. There was no regret or apology, but there was contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u130	You didn't see the difference between what she said on Friday. That's probably what you saw on television when she gave the impression that the curfew should be off very quickly... you've now extended it for a few weeks. That's not "off real soon," is it? You were there, not me, so I ask you: what can you share with the Chamber and with the Netherlands? She said at first literally everyone could see on television that that curfew had to be off very quickly, and then call you and others, and then agree to an extension of a few weeks a day after that. You can't rhyme with that, can you? Something must have happened there, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yeah, I can rhyme with that. Mrs Bergkamp explained exactly how it went. She actually happened to have said the right thing, namely that both Sigrid Kaag and I, by the way, all of us, want to get rid of that curfew, but that's just not going to happen now when you look at the latest insights of the OMT as it became clear to us this weekend. You have often pointed out to me that we entered the curfew and had to extend it a few times, but unfortunately that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u132	I can't get a full answer. Once again, I find it very sad that I cannot ask the Minister, because it is an important decision. Again, that curfew is the most far-reaching freedom-limiting measure the cabinet has ever taken in this corona crisis. Then the winner of the election, the leader of the second party at that time, speaks out against it and I cannot control it with her. I have to do it through Mrs. Bergkamp. I have to do it through the Prime Minister, but I can't get an answer. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u133	Again, I'll give it to you. I thought I gave it to you, too. I understand that she said on Friday what I have been saying for weeks, namely that we want to get rid of it. At the same time, this might give the impression on Friday that she now insists on getting rid of it. That's not her intention at all. She wanted to make the point that she wants to get rid of it. That goes for me, too. Unfortunately, this is not possible in the light of the contagion rates. I don't think anything weird happened there and we're really trying to figure that out. There was no apology or apology. Not at all. That was not necessary, at least not in my direction. I don't know about other ministers, but I don't know about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u134	Okay. That must be at least to other ministers. Otherwise, the collective press would be lying. And I don't think they do. Once again, Mrs Kaag has literally said on television 'the curfew must go very quickly', not 'that must go' but 'that must go very quickly'. And "quickly off" isn't the same as extending for four weeks. The press also writes about the fact that she had not expressed herself conveniently when it comes to what she would have said to other rulers. Anyway, I'm not gonna find out, because I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u135	I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u136	I think I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u137	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u138	Because I can't ask Mrs Kaag about that. I would like to say something else about the curfew itself, because I am sticking with it, and I have indicated this from the start to the record that it has not been shown that the curfew has any effect whatsoever. If it has already been demonstrated, it is in conjunction with the measure that people can only have one person at home to visit. I also did my homework; in addition to pieces previously mentioned by RIVM, we found some new reports from 2020 by Bendavid, Bhattacharya and Ioannidis. They have investigated the added value of the curfew and closing the shops in ten countries, including the Netherlands, which had already taken strict measures. It appears that there is no significant beneficial effect and that, if there are any beneficial effects, they do not outweigh the harmful effects. Hunter, Colón-González, Brainard and Rushton also say in 2020 that this so-called measure has little or no added value. And so there are more. Especially since that curfew has now been extended for at least four weeks, if I am right, for at least a long time. It goes a long way then to extend it again for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u139	I have had that debate a few times. It is, of course, annoying that RIVM and OMT can only say something about the consistency of curfew with the one-visitor-home scheme, namely that the impact of these joint measures is estimated at about 10%, with a bandwidth from the international studies of between 8% and 13%, but they estimate about 10%. That's gonna be a little lower now that we're going to 10:00. That's clear. I think that from the point of view of the balance between the maximum epidemiological impact and the clear signs from enforcement, it is an administratively wise decision to put him an hour later. But Mr Wilders is right, of course, that is annoying. We've talked about that before here. It is part of the fight against such a large pandemic that we cannot make all the decisions on the basis of measures that have been on the shelf for years, with the exact metres attached. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u140	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u141	This is an important point. Again, something is being extended for weeks that the Prime Minister said earlier was at the top of his list to abolish. Mrs Kaag, of the second largest coalition party at the moment, also said last Friday that we must get rid of it. I'm telling the Prime Minister that if you look at the facts, probably that annoying visitation scheme of up to one person has the most effect, no matter how annoying it is. It ensures that there are not many people inside together, whether or not with good ventilation. If you let go of that measure, it could cause the number of infections to increase. Annoying or not, I can understand it. But for the effect of curfew, not going out, there is no shred of evidence in any investigation, unlike that visitation scheme of up to one person. In fact, I've just identified some investigations that say it's not. I am fighting to my last mind, Mr President, because this is a far-reaching measure; the Prime Minister will agree with me on this. I think it is not done without any evidence just to extend it for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u142	Again, the tricky thing about fighting an epidemic is, of course, that you always have to rely on ineffective data and evidence. That's the way it is. It's just that it's part of fighting a crisis like this that you can't exactly calculate the impact to all the decimals. Nevertheless, in many European countries a form of curfew and sometimes a curfew are introduced from 6 p.m., 10 p.m. and sometimes at night. It is part of the packages for good reasons. You can see in international studies that there is certainly a significant impact in connection with the one-visitor-home scheme. They are both firm measures; I do not deny that. Yet one more time to Sigrid Kaag, because I think she says the same as I do, namely that we want to get rid of it as soon as possible. The image that may have arisen on Friday was that she said that the coûte que coûte must now happen. That wasn't her intention at all. We have both looked at the latest figures with Hugo de Jonge and all other colleagues. I'm afraid it's not possible right now. She can see that, and I can see that, but that doesn't change the fact that you want to get rid of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u143	Following on, you said at some point that a curfew later than 9 p.m. would not really make any sense. We know the surveys from 8% to 13%, but they are about a lot of different curfews. Sometimes they go in at 6:00 and sometimes they don't go in until 0:00. What is it? Isn't your water good?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u144	There's a crack in the glass. I'm just gonna put it over there so that someone else doesn't use it again. It's okay. I've got another glass right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u145	Yeah, 'cause that's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u146	So this investigation is about very different curfews. Now we go from 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. RIVM has said that it is very difficult to measure what is now the difference. But in your eyes, the differences are very large, because the virus is lurking on us. On what basis did you say a curfew after 9:00 p.m. made no sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u147	The RIVM and the OMT then told us that it would be wise not to put it after 9 p.m. Of course, we couldn't have guessed that things weren't going well for so long and that we still have to have that curfew. In the meantime, it has been going on for so long that you have to deal with the twilight. Our advisors say he's still having effect at 10:00, but it's less. Of course, you cannot calculate exactly how much less, but there is still an effect fortunately. It's too bad he's still here, but luckily it still has effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u148	If you can measure to 8% or 13% precisely what such a curfew does, then you have probably given at least the order to calculate the difference between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. for the R-value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u149	Of course, I hear Mr Van Haga often suggest to mention very precisely what the opening of restaurants is about to happen, but unfortunately it doesn't work that way. The OMT tells us it can't exactly calculate that. But it will, of course, lead to less effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u150	Finally. Of course, this is weird. We take every step of the way. This one's because it's gonna shine. Personally, I think that's a strange reason. I notice that every time I ask a question, whether it's about the four hours before click-and-go or the curfew, you say: we don't know, but we do. Either an official has done a blow in the air or it is going to shine: I find that a strange basis for changing this kind of incredibly heavy measures, which actually have very little foundation, as Mr Wilders has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u151	That is, of course, a debate that we have very often, namely that unfortunately we cannot calculate exactly what it does. We'll see what other countries do, of course. Many countries have introduced curfews in the context of the fight against corona. The OMT/RIVM has made the calculations that are there: 8% to 13%. On balance, an impact of 10% of the combined measure is expected. It's not exactly what it means when you go from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., but obviously it has less effect. But he still has so much effect that we all, including the advisors, say, "Keep that thing going."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's gonna be a repeat of moves. Last comment on this point, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u153	The argument that there are other countries with curfew is, of course, a misguided one. There are also many countries without curfew. They have exactly the same course of the virus as we do. So that can't be an argument. Now something's changing... but well, we're getting back to the same point. We are against curfew and it is a pity that there is actually no argument for that 9 p.m. or 10 p.m. or even for curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u154	Then I come to two more sets of answers. One goes even further on other suggestions about measures and their impact. The other is about the economy. After that, the idea is that Hugo de Jonge will answer questions under your guidance, in particular about testing, vaccination and higher education. Then Tamara van Ark, Minister for Medical Care, follows on about the care capacity and sports among others. That is a bit of the division as we imagine it to be. That brings me to a number of other questions. A pile is now settled. Then I get to the second of my three stacks here. This is about questions that have been asked about the measures you can take. But I see now, Chairman... you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u155	Me too. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u156	I, too, have something about curfew. I would have expected an answer to the question as to when we could withdraw the curfew. In fact, you can see that in the OMT opinions all kinds of things are suggested about when relaxations are involved. But I do not see in the cabinet's letter a sketch of when we can count on the cabinet to keep its promise to remove the curfew from the pile first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u157	I'm afraid to say this, but did you know that we want to get rid of it as soon as possible? It's been extended so many times now that I don't repeat it here. But it still is. We want to get rid of it as soon as possible. But then the numbers have to improve first. They are, of course, more wrong than good at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u158	Does that mean that the curfew will go away rather than the possible relaxations outlined earlier in the letter, such as opening the terraces and the other relaxations of 31 March? Is it a guarantee that we'll reverse curfew first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u159	We have always said that you cannot do this in black and white, because, of course, you are dealing with measures that reduce traffic, by forcing people to stay at home, even literally. We do this through the curfew, which is of course very manageable, or with strict advice, for example the one-visitor-home scheme. That's one set of measures you're taking. At the same time, of course, there are limitations in social life that have to do with our restaurants, cafes, shops and so on. You can never say exactly "if anything would be possible there, then the other goes first," because that's just the question. The point with the risks we took at the end of February, by making a few things possible in shops and in sports very limited again, was of course that in terms of epidemiological space they did not rise against curfew. One. Of course, that depends very much on what the possible extensions are, how they relate to the curfew and what choices you make in there; you will then have to make them explicitly. Two. Of course, it also has to do with the proportionality of curfew in relation to the possible opening up of more economic sectors. So you will also have to consider those legal issues. There is no answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u160	I believe that the Prime Minister gave that answer at the time when we were asked as a parliament to agree to the curfew. Then the promise was made: this is the first step off. And now an artificial distinction is made between the type of measures, such as the 1.5 metres, the one-visitor scheme, etc., and the opening or non-opening of the retail trade. That's an artificial distinction the Prime Minister didn't make at the time. At the time, it was said that it was the first measure to come off. Then my question remains: can we, as a parliament, be guaranteed that, before the terraces open and before more shops open, our fundamental right will be restored and curfew will be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u161	However, once again: we have of course said earlier in the context of taking more risks that we allow two more visitors per floor in the shops or one per 25 m, with a maximum of 50. There are also small extensions in sport and there are some opportunities in MBO and secondary education; still limited, of course. At that time, of course, we have had to weigh this against the measures that will reduce the spread of the virus, because they have to do with the direct social movement. That just didn't weigh against each other. So we haven't taken the curfew off before in relation to the other measures. This also had to do with how much we estimate what these measures would do in terms of epidemiological space. So that depends very much on what might be possible again. At the moment, it does not make much sense to speculate on this, because the figures are going in the wrong direction rather than the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u162	Finally, because it really is going to be a repeat. They are the same questions in other forms and also the same answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u163	I think it's important to have a look at this. The picture that the Prime Minister is now sketching is that the small relaxations that have a less significant effect are ahead of us. As a result, curfew may last until the summer. We're making a trade-off now. You have a curfew. That is a restriction of a fundamental right that was said to be the first to go off. Now the argument is used as an argument: earlier we have already allowed small relaxations, ergo: we continue with that. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we should really take off the curfew first, before we open the terraces, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u164	Yeah, well. So that depends entirely on what you would do at some point. Opening the terraces completely from 10.00 a.m. to 24.00 a.m. is a bit different than taking a small step in the hospitality or in the shops. We will have to have that debate here with each other. Then you will have to weigh that little step that will probably eat very limited in the hopefully created space to take a risk in epidemiology, versus the much greater impact of such a curfew. I think that this debate will become much more impregnant and much more pressing, as Mrs Kröger calls it here, if you take a big step in the economy. Then I get it. But with a very small step, the question is whether that is proportional. I just can't figure that out. It's clear to me and to the entire cabinet that curfew is the one that sticks down the throat like a bone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr Azarkan has a very different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u166	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to step back, from the details. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, a strategy has been drawn up and we would almost forget it with a hammer and a dance. I wonder if the Prime Minister can tell the Dutch people where we stand with this strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u167	The strategy is to prevent our concern from becoming so burdensome that the other important interventions that need to be carried out can continue from hip surgery to very serious interventions in the heart and cancer, life-threatening situations. The second thing we want is to ensure that people with vulnerable health and older people are as protected as possible. To this end, we want to have as much insight as possible into and insight into the spread of the virus. At the moment, the number of people that are contagious, the number of people that are added daily and the pressure it places on the research of sources and contact is simply too high. So it is necessary to take measures to reduce those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u168	Firstly, these are simply objectives. That's not what I mean. In my view, a strategy is needed and the Prime Minister has set out a strategy to achieve these objectives, namely protecting the elderly, reducing the pressure on care and ensuring that the other care tasks can also be carried out. But that's not what I asked. I asked the Prime Minister how he took the Dutch people. What are the steps to get out of this nasty situation and where are we with this strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u169	Sure. It is quite clear, of course, that the strategic intent is to maintain maximum control over the epidemic. This means that we are looking against that background at how it develops over the next few months and what it takes to create more space for society. In the first instance you try to get as controlled and organized as possible from the current lockdown. The most important asset is vaccination. That is perfectly clear. In addition, the test capacity will increase enormously in the coming months and will be used to enable things that are not otherwise possible. The most important trump card we have is the vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u170	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u171	Finally. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the vaccination is going? There's a lot of criticism, including that there's a lot in stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u172	That's what the U.S. Secretary of State comes back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr President, if I may say so, I really think this is part of the strategy. We're not talking about that enough. We are talking too much about details, such as whether or not to let curfew enter an hour later. I would like to know what lines the Prime Minister is going to take us out of this misery, what the logical steps are and how they are being carried out. I just want to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u174	The most important card here is vaccination, of course in combination with tests so that as long as the sufficient vaccination rate is not reached, as many people as possible do not get sick. With vaccination alone, those people can't get it anymore, but they can be contagious.The transmission issue is not solved yet.The only thing you're hoping to achieve is that as many people as possible can't get sick, because they've already had it or have been vaccinated. On the road to that, you want to see if you can get the epidemic under control in any case with our measures, so that social space can be created again for economic sectors, theatres, cinemas and so on, and also the curfew away, and b can make sufficient use of the test capacity to make social things possible as long as there is not enough vaccination rate. Those are the different things we're working on. That's the classic line of getting control of the virus by our behavior combined with more tests. Eventually, you need the vaccines to really get back to life in society in the summer. Hugo de Jonge will be addressing the question of exactly where we stand with the vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u176	Then we'll talk about the restaurants. It has been asked why a restaurant room cannot be used as a wedding location. An exception has been made for locations where a wedding ceremony takes place. These are locations designated by municipalities as "house of the municipality." The municipality determines which locations they are. According to the rules, this can also be a restaurant room, if it remains closed to the public. So that is possible, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. Then the VVD. Mrs Hermans asked whether it would also be possible, if the figures were not too good, to give room to the catering industry, for example. Absolutely. We have said: you have that rhythm of a week, but if things aren't that bad in the coming time, then we're not gonna wait that week, but then we're gonna assume that the Chamber will accept that too. We're gonna act very quickly and create more space very quickly. That will undoubtedly lead to debates here, which is very good, but then you will not necessarily have to wait in the rhythm of the Temporary Measures Act all week before you can give that extension. But then, of course, it must be epidemiologically possible. Of course, we are looking at all sectors very widely again and all the activities that Mrs Kröger has mentioned in connection with the other measures we are taking. In doing so, we sail on the compass of the Dijkhoff motion, on the basis of which we look at what is also possible in smaller steps, wide in the economic spectrum, but also in the social spectrum, including the theatres and museums. There has been reference to the differences between rich and poor, which are evidently visible in our society. Asked if there's any attention to that. Let me say that it is terrible that corona causes so much damage and suffering, in terms of health, but also in social and economic terms. Unfortunately, the CBS figures on the risk of death by corona are part of the picture we know of the socio-demographic figures in the case of illness and mortality in general. At causes of death other than COVID-19 we see a similar pattern. To quote the CBS: people with lower incomes die on average earlier than those with higher incomes for all kinds of reasons; this also applies to the death of COOVID-19. However, the CBS says, COVID-19 has not further increased the known differences in mortality rates between income groups. Well, that's a very poor consolation, then. The publication underlines once again that we need to be very careful about relaxing. In order to combat the division in society, we are working on different paths. A great deal of money has, of course, been made available to combat educational disadvantages. The whole government's debt approach must be considered in this light. We are, of course, looking at the division of labour. In this sense, this also fits in with the general policy of this cabinet of Christian Union, D66, CDA and VVD, which has set itself the objective of linking the various groups, including socio-economic groups, much more closely in our society. We cannot eliminate all the differences in income, we do not have to do so, but if the social effects of the differences in income are so dramatic, we must try to reduce them. Then I look at the question of how, at Easter, we will regulate the crowds outside, on the streets and in parks. The discussion will take place intensively. The colleagues of VWS and JenV regularly discuss this in the Security Council. I will join the Security Council myself next Monday, at the request of the mayors, together with Hugo de Jonge and Ferd Grapperhaus. Perhaps Sigrid Kaag will also be there, depending on her agenda, otherwise she will come on another occasion. Then the questions about the terraces. To what extent have contaminations been traced to the terraces? Has that been investigated? The third opinion of the Outbreak Management Team states that opening terraces increases the risk of close contacts, transmission of the virus and possibly less controlled situations. We know that in October, when the catering industry was still open, there were infections in the catering industry. That is not a reproach to the hospitality industry. There is a tremendous amount of work there to minimize the number of infections, but the fact is, of course, that when people move and meet in a café or restaurant, the risk increases. It is also not the problem of that one restaurant, that one café or that one terrace. It's the sum total. The number of cases related to catering clusters was on average four times greater than the average related to other clusters in October. Then there was Mr Van der Staaij's question about the extension of the visitor's opinion. One person per household or two persons per day might, as far as he is concerned, lead to more compliance. We do not think that it is wise to do so at the moment, because of the figures, also in terms of the spread of the virus, but of course we hope that we can all quickly get rid of measures such as curfew and the one-visitor-home scheme. If that possibility arises, we will act on it as well soon as possible. Then there was Mr Van der Staaij's question, also in Mrs Hermans's question, about customization in opening up the catering industry. That's definitely something we're looking at. One of the options we have talked about before, of course, is to create opportunities outside, if there is room, in the catering industry, for example in the outdoor terraces. There is also cooperation with the different sectors to see if this can be done safely at a later stage of decision-making. But that must fit into the epidemiological picture. Prevention: once. I thought Hugo de Jonge or Tamara van Ark was going to say something about prevention and sport. I'm sure I'll answer where there's a connection to the communication. A question was asked about that. I very much agree with that, and we will also involve it more closely in communication. The same applies, of course, to the basic measures. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen referred to the fact that we are intensifying communication on basic measures and communication on the basic rules. You are also seeing a very intensive campaign right now. The political commercials of the political parties have now fallen. There is again some space around the programs on television and radio. We are now using them to encourage people to contribute. We say, "Oh, make it possible for the catering industry to open up again, make it possible for people to go all the way back to school, make it possible for the theatres to open up again; go to the test street if you think you should. The same applies to the other basic rules. Mr Van der Staaij referred to the appeal to his own responsibility. Of course, that's part of it. I also did that today in the direction of one church in Urk, which scared me very much, the Sionkerk. It says, "We're opening." I think that's very unwise. I have said, as a Christian, that I think it is very Christian to think about your neighbors and that it is very selfish to sit in a church building with 500 people now. I'm really upset about that. Then there is the question of whether it is real to expect people to stick to the measures for another two months. Can I say at that point that's incredibly heavy? These are still firm months, but we finally have, for the first time in this pandemic, a real view of an end point, at least at a time when society can largely return to a more normal situation. Then how it settles, we have to look at it afterwards. So by summer, especially when all 60-plussers and the people with vulnerable health are vaccinated, we are really a long way away. The same goes for Mrs Dik-Faber's question about how to maintain this and how to ensure that the sense of urgency remains in society. Then Mr Van Haga asked for freedom of demonstration. It is of course very important, but I also have great respect and admiration for it, and I would like to say this once again, as I also supported yesterday in my contribution to the press conference for our mayors, for our police, for the Royal Marechaussee, for the enforcers, who manage demonstrations and social unrest every weekend. The problem is not a demonstration of decent people who follow the rules. This must be possible in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, there have also been examples last weekend on the Museumplein where people completely crossed the line. In any case, I stand firmly behind our police forces once again: with great respect, and behind Femke Halsema and all the other mayors who are in that difficult situation. Then to Mrs Dik-Faber's question: do you want to focus on a fair distribution of vaccines worldwide and bet on it tomorrow at the European Council? This has been the aim of the cabinet and the whole of the European Union from the outset. We have contributed to COVAX, which jointly buys vaccines for poorer countries. That programme is now running in many countries, including Africa. That's where the first deliveries are now delivered. This will also be discussed in the European Council tomorrow. I will speak for that myself again. I know that many of my colleagues support me in that. Mr. Chairman. That was a pile of two. Then I've got one pile on the economy after that. This was the pile of "other questions related to the measures."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u177	I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Dik-Faber. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u178	If you have a low income in the Netherlands and are under 70 years of age, you have three times more chance of dying of covid than someone with a high income. I am shocked by the Prime Minister's reply, because I find it so lukewarm, so meaningless. What exactly is he going to do to deal with this? We have often talked about it here that, for example, getting quarantined is much easier if you live in a spacious house than when you're sitting with your family in an apartment. Many people working at home are tired of zooming and video transfer, but that is still a lot safer than the work of cleaners, home care workers, shop staff and bus drivers. They have to go for work. That's reflected in the death rates. That's unacceptable, isn't it? Why doesn't the Prime Minister just say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u179	I'm going to go into that last point anyway. The CBS says that COVID-19 has not further increased the known differences between the income groups and those that are serious enough to cause death. That doesn't change the fact that there are differences. I'm not in favour of a society without differences. I am in favour of a society with equal opportunities, to which everyone contributes according to their ability. One is a fantastic truck driver or a fantastic garbage collector or policeman, another goes into politics and a third becomes a researcher at a university. Everyone makes their contribution according to their ability and everyone is equally important. You don't want to get rid of those differences. That's the way they are. We can't guarantee the outcome, but we can guarantee the start. For me, this is a very fundamental starting point for our society. We have a society with limited income differences. After Scandinavian society, our income disparities are among the smallest in the world. That also gives us social cohesion. This does not alter the fact that there are, of course, very negative effects in many countries in the Netherlands, for example, because people make debts or because people have fewer opportunities to cope with setbacks because of their low income. Then the government will be there as a shield for the weak. This is what our social security system is designed to do, and there is a transfer of income through the health system. You can't completely take that away. I can't. But this cabinet has been our sacred duty from the start, that all these different groups in the Netherlands, all those people who feel more or less affected by politics and by the government, by our actions and by what we all do here for the benefit of the general, realize that we are there for them and not for ourselves or for a certain group. This is reflected in very concrete actions, such as what Tamara van Ark did in her previous role in the cabinet on debt relief and what we do in health care, youth aid and broad social security. That's not flawless. That's not all finished. That's a project of years. It's not gonna be solved with a magic wand right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u180	So here we have a vengeance that we have a liberal prime minister. He comes up with a story, like, "Yes, differences are part of it. They'll always be there in society. It's about equal opportunities for all." Not everyone gets an equal chance to get through this corona crisis well, healthy, safe and sound. I didn't just mention those examples for nothing. If you live with your family in a small house or in an apartment, it's a lot harder to go into quarantine. All these crucial professions, which we now have a title for, among other things, which we have applauded, cannot work at home at all. So they have no equal chance of getting through the corona crisis safely and healthly. That is what I call the Prime Minister, and then he comes up with a general story, such as: there will always be differences in society. Yeah, like I don't understand. Everyone understands that. But I would really like to appeal to this Prime Minister and this cabinet to feel a little more urgent. If we say that we need to get through this crisis socially, then we need to help that particular group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u181	With regard to care, for example, we said in January, even after pressing from the care, that the 30,000 people most affected by acute care are vaccinated first. That's how you set priorities in the corona policy. I have mentioned three issues that are important in a society where there are differences. I don't mind those differences either, because we're all different. We all have different talents. One is very good with his hands, the other with her brain, a third can speak very well and a fourth can write very well. I am very happy that we have these differences and that it is not always cuckoo one vocals. The government is in favour of preventing people from getting into the tribulation beyond their fault. We must stand there for each other and show solidarity with each other. This should not depend on a gift from someone, but should be organised from the State through income transfer. Then there are, I think, three things that I think this cabinet is right to put a lot of energy into, but that has not been resolved in four years. This has to do with the educational disadvantages, the debt approach and the division of labour. All these aspects are being worked on, but, of course, in a serious pandemic with far-reaching economic effects, differences are becoming more visible. That is not entirely avoidable, and you can't just solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u182	I think it's incredible. If you're among the 20% lowest incomes in the Netherlands, you're just three times more likely to die of corona than when you're among the highest incomes. And then there's such an answer! I am, of course, talking about very concrete things for people: a decent house, a healthy house, an affordable house. Well, we saw: last year the rents went through the roof under this cabinet. The highest rent increase in six years! I'm talking about a decent income so you don't end up in debt. Well, the discussion about raising the minimum wage is still ongoing. I therefore appeal again to the Prime Minister. If we say that we have to get through this corona crisis socially, then he can't come up with the story: yes, there are differences in society and that's very nice, because everyone is using their own talents? It is precisely because we are asking for a lot more from other people, the crucial professions, that not everyone gets an equal chance to get through this corona crisis safely and healthyly. Wouldn't it be right for the Prime Minister to stick his neck out a little more for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u183	I think the most important thing we can do is to ensure equal opportunities for people, what this and the previous cabinet have done. We have made sure that there is maximum employment. The Netherlands is one of the countries in Europe with the lowest, lowest unemployment. We are now a full percent under Germany. If there's anything you can do to really improve the position of people with benefits, it's that you make sure people get to work. This has been spectacularly successful in the Netherlands. Job growth and the number of people working have increased dramatically since 2012 and the economic crisis, which was over its peak in 2013 and 2014. That's the best you can do. However, I have mentioned the three areas that need to be done more for social cohesion, education deficits, the debt approach and the division of the labour market. This cabinet has not chosen for nothing to take great steps on these three issues, but these are not matters that you solve in one cabinet period. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u184	It does not help, I say to the Prime Minister, to increase the problem and to talk about social cohesion when it comes to very practical aid, aid that people needed and they did not get. We're talking about how people are suffering from this corona crisis. So that's the bus drivers and the cleaners, because they're not necessarily people who don't have a job. These are people for whom, despite their good intentions, their hard work and all their efforts, it is difficult to go into quarantine and to protect themselves at work. They can't work at home. Why did the cabinet allow this to happen and why didn't concrete proposals to assist them before? That's the question. The greater inequality issue is certainly relevant here, and that is not to be solved in one year or three months, but concrete measures could have been taken here. A number of your Members of Parliament have certainly insisted on this, Mr President. But the cabinet just didn't!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u185	I really don't agree with that. I have just pointed out that groups are given priority in vaccination policy. Indeed, after a social debate, we said that we give priority to them. That involved the tens of thousands of people working in the intensive care departments or in the care in those places where there is a waste of risk of self-acquiring corona. Furthermore, the government, including the government as an employer, is always looking at what it can do for other people, whether they are cleaners in hospitals or patients transporters. Furthermore, we had the discussion about the compartments in the shops, the garbage collectors and the people who work on the train, the bus and the tram. We have all taken steps to ensure that they are able to do their job safely. The fact is that these crucial professions and the sectors that are vital to the corona crisis had to be able to continue to do their work, because they cannot zoom or do so via WebAcces. They must do so in the workplace, and that is why it is the expensive duty of all employers to ensure that they can do that work safely. In many places I have seen examples of how this has been done. That doesn't change the fact that a garbage collector can't work from home. It must do so on the streets, and we must therefore all make sure that you make it as safe as possible. It may lead to a slightly higher risk, because that risk is not entirely to be removed, but you must try to minimize that risk. I think that's what a lot of employers have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u186	My question was not so much about what employers do. Of course they should. We've talked about that a lot. But we have also often talked about how to help people specifically in this corona time to protect themselves and go into quarantine and they offer opportunities in their circumstances indeed they are often small-housed anyway to make sure that they don't run out of corona or that they don't pass it on. I would like to invite the Prime Minister to have a talk with general practitioners in neighbourhoods where people do not have it too easy. Listen to their story. Everyone puts themselves in there, but everyone feels abandoned, too. Pointing to employers and to others is simply not good enough. More could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u187	That is always the case; we can draw that conclusion in any debate. Only now the impression is given that our employers have let it go. That's just not true. I talk to GPs, I visit GPs and have conversations with everyone in our society. I know Mrs Ploumen has those conversations, too. Of course there are examples of which I think: things are not going well; there we can do more as a government. Then you're trying to fix that. Think about the NS and our public transport. I've seen how they organized it from day one. Last April I visited HTM, here in The Hague. I have seen how they organized it on the bus and on the tram so that the drivers and the drivers, the men and women who sit and stand there, can do their job as safely as possible. I thought that was impressive. This has happened in very close consultation. It's not like the average bus driver says, "I'll wait for something to happen." No, he has a view of it himself. It can always be better, certainly, but I do not think it is right to say that the employers in the Netherlands have failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u188	That's certainly not right. That's why I didn't say that. I told them the government failed. Additional measures could have been taken. Suggestions have been made for this, but they have not been taken. It is then almost natural to accept that some people are at greater risk than others... I repeat it to Mrs Marijnissen: I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u189	It's inevitable. If people can't work at home, there's always a certain risk. I believe that in many sectors the maximum effort has been made to reduce the risks. I think that's decent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u190	Coming back to the point of the wedding locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u191	That's a really big bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u192	The transition is too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u193	The transition is big. That's true. But it is what I believe is happening in all layers of society. The season in which that happens more is coming again. They're small points, but it can be important for people. It is also simply about the rules that we discuss with each other, which have always been neatly annexed to the documents and which we as a parliament are discussing. The Prime Minister said it could just be in restaurants, if they're designated. We are getting reports that weddings in catering establishments are being cancelled in practice, because there is a provision in the ministerial regulation that says: catering establishments should be closed, point. Is it too strict an explanation of those provisions? Does the Prime Minister say: yes, indeed, that provision must be read in such a way that it is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u194	I'm going to read exactly what's written here. That's almost a legal text. An exception has been made for locations where a ceremony or marriage takes place. These are locations designated by the municipality as the house of the municipality. The municipality determines which locations they are. The corona rules do not prevent it from being a restaurant room, as long as it remains closed to the public. That was recorded on tape. That's transmittable. So that's gotta be true. If the ministerial arrangement is not correct on that point, then we are going to amend it now, because the spoken word then applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u195	Thank you for this clarification. Let me turn to the issue of the visitor scheme. The Prime Minister says: adaptation is not on the agenda, because it amounts to relaxation. That was the argument. I've heard that before. But what struck me about the Catshuis pieces, several times, is that it was said: pay attention, the support for this measure is now waning, limited. If you shape it smarter, for example per household.... up to one contact per household per day.......................................................................................................... Is that how it's being looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u196	We have looked at various variants in themselves, including the variant used in Belgium for a while. I think that still happens to some extent, namely the social bubbles. You can see that it is so complex in the interpretation that it is also said in Belgium in the end.In my opinion, it is still partly in Belgium's policy that it is very difficult in practice to make it easy for people. But the agreement that you can visit a person only once a day and that you can receive a visitor no more than once a day, is in its simplicity in itself easily communicatable, but naturally limited in support. People think it's a terrible rule. Me too. But I'm afraid he's needed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u197	Then... Mr Van der Staaij finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u198	I would nevertheless find it interesting if, next time, perhaps more explicit consideration could be given to whether an adjustment could not ultimately be more effective. Because now you run the risk that people think the rule is too strict, because they can't go to parents or a child together anymore, and therefore just shove that whole rule aside, as it were, and get easier. And that is not, of course, the intention, there must be support and compliance with it. Next time, could you comment on whether there could be some racking in this way to put the visitor's scheme more effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u199	I would also like to say to the officials on the microphone that in the next letter we will also go through those variants and indicate why at least we have not chosen them now, although perhaps we will. But not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u200	Good. I've got six more MPs trying to interrupt. The interruptions must be really short. After this we have two more directors and a second term. And then we'll have votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u201	And I have a bunch of questions about the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u202	The answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u203	Yeah, I'm gonna do it even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u204	Do you dare to ask a question, Mrs Van den Berg? Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u205	I would like to return briefly to the Prime Minister's remark that he is still having discussions with Minister Grapperhaus on Monday, including the Easter weekend. That Easter weekend's coming up real soon. People want to be able to prepare themselves for what they can do. So I'm wondering when there's gonna be some reports for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u206	There's nothing they can do. No more than on other weekends. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u207	No, but there is the walk. That will be excessive. How is that regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u208	But, of course, that's up to the mayors in the different cities. We're not going to solve that on Monday, I'm afraid. You can see that mayors close parks in many places when it gets too crowded, because we just can't have that, it's horrible, but also not on Easter weekends. I can't make it prettier. Hugo de Jonge, Ferd Grapperhaus and I are going to talk to the Security Council in a general sense. This is now planned for Monday, about their role and the appreciation for what they are already doing to manage it all in the right direction. Because, of course, that's a huge amount of work. But there's no magic formula to keep things quiet in the parks. That will remain a point and often it will be the case that parks or beach entrances are closed, because with these huge numbers of infected people we cannot take that risk. The odds are now one in 150 you're gonna run into someone who's got it. So if you have a busy beach entrance where 100 people walk, there's a very good chance that someone will walk in there who has it, or maybe several people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u209	But that's going to be regulated. Because you can, so to speak, indicate blocks there, so that people know in advance who can go where, once for a few hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u210	But that really is a matter for the municipality. We can't settle those blocks nationwide. Those mayors really have to do that. They're good at that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u211	I will see if Mr Van Haga still needs a short question. Then I have Mrs Bergkamp and then Mr Wassenberg. Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u212	It's about the police brutality. Of course, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we should respect the police. We need to respect the mayors; we need to respect the ME. This is also perfectly normal in normal situations. Only we have all seen those videos where completely peacefully demonstrating middle-class people with a backpack standing there, are completely battered. Then I wonder what the violence is. Isn't it time to say, from above, that you are the right person to say: come on, we're all having trouble with these corona measures, one out of that in a different way than the other, but let's at least show people who are just standing there peacefully, a little normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u213	I would really warn you to watch out for such a video and draw conclusions from it. That's one. The second is that the triangle decides on the deployment of police and KMar in situations where this is necessary. That the mayor is always accountable to the city council. That if the police have to act heavily, that's always evaluated. It's all happening. But the default, the fall-back position is, of course, always a good thing, and I hope for Mr Van Haga too, otherwise he is very far-fetched. We always assume, as a matter of principle, that the police are doing well, but within that context of the mayor's responsibility to the city council, clear instructions for violence, the triangle that is taking place and always evaluating the use of the police. But let's not base ourselves on those videos, because you don't know what happened before and after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u214	I object to the remark 'then he is very far removed'. I didn't drift off at all. I also object to watching movies. There are videos that show convincingly that certain people just go too far. There are some M.E.s who use cross-border force. I expect people in that same triangle to act normal. I expect those mayors to be accountable. I don't see that happening at all. You probably saw those videos, too. Do you agree? Do you think the mayor should intervene? Sure, if you're attacked, it's another story. I understand that very well. I didn't drift off in there at all. I'm also in front of law-and-order, but it's just way out of line here. There are examples where people are just being beaten up by MEs. You must also acknowledge that this would go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u215	I would like to warn you once again about making a judgment based on these kinds of videos. You don't know what happened before and after that. Furthermore, the police always work under the direction of the local triangle. The mayor will always answer to the city council. If there has been violence, the police always evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u216	It's the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u217	Yes. That's what I keep saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u218	And you asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u219	Well, I'm gonna wrap it up. Well, that's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u220	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u221	The big problem that you have, and that the mayors have, is that everything is now being filmed from all angles. So now a policeman or a ME can't say: sorry, it was a cross-border behavior and I've been kicking my ass. No, it's all being filmed from all angles, so a certain appropriate violence, with appropriate instruction of violence, would fit in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u222	I visited Eindhoven a few weeks ago with Ferd Grapperhaus, where at the beginning of the curfew a few hundred completely idiots took action against the police in the most terrible way. I've spoken to agents, paramedics and boas who were still shocked ten days after this happened. It would have had a profound impact on them. I've been through that footage with them to some extent. What these people are going through is horrible. I have such respect for our police and for our military. Of course they are not above the law; they also have to answer. That's what's gonna happen. But the basic position is that we support the police. They're having a hard time, especially these days. Our mayors are having a hard time. I'm so glad they're doing that important work. We all hope that in a few months' time those measures will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u223	You said you'd finish up, Mr. Van Haga. This is really the last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u224	Of course, I also respect police officers who are in a difficult situation. Of course I do. I also respect soldiers and people in care. That's not the point at all. Of course, there are times when you respect that, always really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u225	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u226	Only that respect disappears when cross-border behaviour is shown. That has happened now, so it would be a credit to you to admit that this is not possible either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u227	Again, don't base yourself on those videos. You don't know what happened before and after that. If things have not gone well, then everything has been arranged in the Netherlands to ensure that there is of course action against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u228	I have a question about the Sionkerk on Urk. The Prime Minister clearly states that he finds it unacceptable. He's gonna have a conversation, too. But I wonder what you can do in such a situation in terms of enforcement, regulation or information, because this is such a wrong signal to the entrepreneurs who are closed and the entrepreneurs with terraces that do not open. Then you see that a very large group of people says: freedom of religion is a great good thing, but we also have rules and agreements with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u229	Freedom of religion blocks the possibility of intervention in the church. So we're not gonna do that. I don't want that either. I appeal here to the leaders of this ecclesiastical community. We currently have 113,000 people in the Netherlands who are contagious. The risks you take when you sit in a church with 500 people without 1.5 meters, or even with 500 people who don't wear mouth caps... It's totally irresponsible. It's totally irresponsible. I assume that they are going to weigh that very precisely once again and take their social responsibility, including as a Christian. I have always read in the Bible, and learned from my parents and my pastor, that Christianity begins and ends with the premise that you not only live for yourself, but also for the other. I think that is a very important Christian starting point. I strongly appeal to these Church leaders to apply this principle here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u230	I'll share that. Freedom of religion is a great good; I started with that. But the Prime Minister does say: I appeal to these people. Is he going to make a personal appeal to them, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u231	Not me. That's what Ferd Grapperhaus does. He's the Minister of Honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u232	So that's what the Prime Minister's actually saying is that the Minister of Justice is going to talk and send a signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u233	I don't know if he's gonna do that to this church. I'm not setting his schedule right now. I've said this now. This is over... This is everyone's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u234	It's on the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u235	I just told the media, too. I think that should do it. We're not gonna put any more energy into it. I've said it now. I think it's their job now to act on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u236	You were just talking about major transitions. I'll take you from the church to the slaughterhouse with your permission. The Prime Minister says: often things are good, but not always; it is not always perfect. If you're going to look at slaughterhouses, it turns out that the NVWA sent a letter to all slaughterhouses for the umpteenth time two weeks ago. Things aren't going well in there. Corona measures are not being complied with. So there are structural problems. For example, we have also received reports that 32 new infections have occurred at one of Vion's sites in the past week. The NVWA says: from now on, action will be taken in the event of non-compliance. My question to the Prime Minister is: what has happened so far in the event of non-compliance? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is a serious and structural problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u237	Mrs Van Ark has fully graduated in this respect in order to conduct the discussion with Mr Wassenberg. I do not have any information on this at the moment, but in the subdivision it is going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u238	The Minister will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u239	She has followed the question very closely and made mental notes. She'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u240	Good. Knowing Mr Wassenberg: if the answer is not given, he will interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u241	Then there is the final issue: the economy. Let me start with Mrs Hermans. How can we prevent a accumulation of administrative acts? Can we get one window? What can we do to make it as user-friendly as possible not to burden entrepreneurs with unnecessary burdens? This also has complications in the execution, because the NOW is performed by the UWV and the TVL by the RVO. Anyway, there are always practical objections that stand in the way of a practical solution. That is why I cannot just say that it is going to be a one-stop shop. However, we can see how we can get these organisations to work together as well as possible to at least work virtually as much as possible as a one-stop shop. We're going to try to turn that thought into action within the limitations that exist. The NOW scheme provides that Dutch subsidiaries may receive public subsidies from foreign parent companies. If we had demanded that they should not pay a dividend, which was discussed with the Court, then the risk would have been too great for Dutch jobs to be lost. After all, the subsidiary has simply made wage costs in the Netherlands and thus maintained employment. The whole arrangement was made for good reasons as it was made and also discussed extensively with the Chamber, so that can be no surprise. Then over the brown fleet. Shall I do all the questions about the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u242	Yes, and then I have Mrs Hermans and then I have Mrs Ploumen. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u243	With regard to the brown fleet and starters... First of all, Mrs Hermans' question about the starters. Start-up entrepreneurs do not always receive sufficient TVL grant. This also has to do with the lack of turnover or underturn in the reference period, for example because there was a conversion or the acquisition of a licence. Therefore, a separate scheme for start-ups started after 1 October 2019 and before 30 June 2020 is being developed. This regulation must be approved by the European Commission, and it will open up. We hope that this can be done by mid-May at the latest, but again, we do need that approval. For the brown fleet it now has good access to the TVL. In doing so, the maximum subsidy fee increased significantly and the subsidy rate increased. We are also working on an additional aid measure for the brown fleet sector. The scheme is expected to be introduced at the end of the second quarter. We would like to do that sooner, but I have to tell you quite frankly that our expectation is that acceleration will not succeed now. It's a bespoke assessment. So I can't promise it right now, but of course we'll do everything we can to do it as soon as possible. The reimbursement of part of the advance that entrepreneurs receive under the NOW or TVL is of course something that can fall raw on the roof. That is why the financial position of entrepreneurs is very much taken into account. Entrepreneurs who have to pay back are therefore offered wide payment periods. That means it could go up to 36 months. For the NOW, if this period leads to problems with the employer, it will be examined jointly at what time it can be reimbursed. It is also possible to start paying back later. In addition, the point of contact for determining requests for NOW 1 is longer open until 31 October. For the TVL, the refund can be made in twelve monthly instalments. Here too, if this leads to problems with the employer, it is considered jointly at what time it can be repaid. There are a few hundred cases where recovery is really severe. In these cases, the National Service for Entrepreneurship in the Netherlands calls in advance and a payment arrangement is offered proactively, in advance. Then there was a question of not the VVD, but 50PLUS about the Tozo. It was produced under high pressure. This means that it was necessary to comply with existing legislation, in this case the Participation Act. As with the assistance, the Tozo benefit is taxed on wages. Because the partner's income in Tozo 1 was not known, too little tax has been withheld and this could lead to a post-tax. Applicants were informed about this at the time of the application. This could be the case, for example, if a partner has paid income or if the entrepreneur has worked as an employed person. Then too little tax has been withheld and the entrepreneur still has to pay it. In principle, the distribution of the Tozo between the entrepreneur and his partner does not affect the right to or the level of the household surcharges. In fact, increases are calculated at household level. The Christian Union, Mrs Dik-Faber, asked whether it is conceivable to... Let's see. That was about the time blocks in the stores. You can reserve a time block online or by phone. Would it be possible, in this situation, to allow the four-hour bridge to lapse? I wouldn't want to do that. That period is built in precisely to limit fun shopping. If you let it go, I think that would be a relief and unfortunately there is no epidemiological space for that now. Then Mrs Van den Berg's question was: could you not allow the NOW to lead the spirit and purpose of the arrangement? What the UWV is doing now is determining as much as possible in the case of submitted objections whether there is room to indeed meet the employer, as suggested, within the spirit of the arrangement. Unfortunately, as Mrs van den Berg said, it is impossible to deliver tailor-made products for every business. The NOW is designed so that advance payments can be made quickly for large numbers of employers. That's why the whole thing is gross. The UWV does everything in its ability to act and decide according to the spirit of the arrangement, but it is very large numbers. In that sense, I cannot guarantee here that it is always custom-made, but they are doing their best. There was also a question, finally, about the reference month in the NOW. To keep him enforceable, there must be one reference month. The amount of advance payment for NOW 1 shall be based on the month of January 2020. This can sometimes lead to a poor picture of regular wage costs, for example by overtime. UWV does what it can to filter out such one-off payments. For example, this was done for the thirteenth month, but unfortunately it is not possible for all payments. This has also been reflected in the dilemma letter by Wouter Koolmees, the Minister of SZW. For the period NOW 3 it has been examined whether it is possible to choose another reference month. This is possible in itself, but it harms companies for which June is an appropriate month. Nor can we change the eligibility conditions during the journey if it would be detrimental to some companies. This may mean that the subsidy is lower for this reason. This may also feel unfair to employers. UWV now looks very carefully at the objections and is also very accommodating with the payment deadlines. If there are more questions about this, I hope that this can be done directly with Mr Koolmees. 'Cause I've said everything I know about that now. Then I'll have to move it to the second term, if it's specifically about the NOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u244	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Hermans. Then I have Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Van den Berg. Mrs. Hermans, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Let's talk about that one window. I actually mentioned that as an example. I am particularly concerned about the period later when we are out of the crisis or at least really a few steps further and we want to give entrepreneurs all the space and time to do what they want and also to do to get their business going again. Then we should prevent them from getting letters from all those counters, agencies and organisations they are dealing with in the aid packages, each for themselves in the handling, which should call and mention it all. Can't we make that easier? That window is intended as an example. Of course, I'm open to other suggestions, but it's really at that stage of economic start-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u246	I get it. Then I'll say the following two things. We're looking at how we can get organizations to work together as best we can. I also mentioned yesterday in the press conference the letter that is coming from Hoekstra, Koolmees and Van 't Wout about what is needed to get these companies through the rest of the crisis and how we are helping them with their debt position, with their own capital position if it is eroded, and with building their stock. I would ask the three of them to include in that too how to ensure that you make this administratively as light as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u247	Yes. The support is now mainly financially organized and so we also make organizational support in the recovery and in everything you need for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u248	Yes, without arguing with the three, I can't say exactly, but I think this question is very real, so we're going to see exactly what can be done in this spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u249	Mrs Ploumen, finally. You've been there a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u250	Yes. Let's talk about the multinationals. The Prime Minister is right: this rule was discussed in November in the House of Representatives, I believe. Motions have been tabled. Unfortunately, they did not get a majority. The coalition voted against it. There was a motion from colleagues, from Mrs Marijnissen and myself. Now it turns out that a number of large companies have made extensive use of that scheme, which I was opposed to anyway, but well, there is. The company Adecco received support from the Dutch taxpayer. The people in the vital professions, you might say. This not only pays dividends to shareholders abroad but also bonuses. Now I would like to tell the Prime Minister the following. Firstly, I do not believe in the argument of those employers, he apparently does. Well, okay, but there should also be moral judgment on this, right? Wouldn't the Prime Minister want to look with me for ways to limit this? Because there are also a number of companies that say: maybe we're going to do it, maybe we don't; we don't know. It's not too late to get back on our feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u251	I don't think that's wise. It sounds very sympathetic, I agree with Mrs Ploumen, but it is not sensible. I think we should minimize the risk of Dutch jobs being lost. And there are indeed restrictions in those arrangements. Dutch companies may not pay bonuses or dividends themselves and if a company is part of a group, no bonuses or dividends may be paid to the parent company. Here you talk about a parent company that makes a profit in other countries and pays a bonus or dividend on that basis. So you're talking about Dutch daughters of foreign parent companies. I think that we have rightly set up the scheme in such a way as to avoid the loss of jobs in the Netherlands as much as possible. If we were to do this, however sympathetic and morally agree with Mrs Ploumen, we would be taking real risks with employment. I wouldn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u252	I'm not convinced, but okay. Let us then note that Dutch companies experience a disadvantage here compared to foreign companies. Surely the Prime Minister shouldn't think that's acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u253	That's inevitable. That is why it is also good that there are Dutch headquarters of Dutch companies. We have also had that discussion in recent years, namely how important it is that you have Dutch headquarters. Hey, Unilever is now a full British company! That is why it is so important that you also have multinationals in the Netherlands that have the headquarters here where mother and daughter are in one country. You're talking about companies the subsidiary of which is here and the mother abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u254	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u255	I'm about to try to give the Prime Minister an alternative proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u256	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u257	... because you can say that you can go morally with an end, but you are asking for a contribution from people who work themselves every day. I'm just saying that those offices clean or sit on the tram, and the Prime Minister then finds it acceptable that these resources end up in bonuses from bosses of large foreign companies. It's not just morally wrong. It's also just... well, unwise; let me put it on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u258	Then I would like to quote Tony Blair in his last big speech for the Labour Congress in September 2006. Then he said: solidarity and other social democratic values are delicate and important. He also supports that, but he said: you have to apply it in a world that unfortunately is not always compromised and where other interests play. That is the case here. So I agree with the values that Mrs Ploumen puts down here, not the social democratic values. Only, if you are going to effect that internationally in a world that is hard, that can lead to job losses in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u259	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u260	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u261	The Prime Minister also knows what happened to Tony Blair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u262	That wasn't for this reason. There was another reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u263	Finally, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u264	I would like to return to the Prime Minister's reply on the NOW. He says, "Don't give me any detailed questions about the NOW scheme." I don't need a detailed answer either. I want only one commitment from the Prime Minister, namely that there is a willingness to reconsider how the formula can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u265	The reference month?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u266	We have 60% of the companies that have to pay back. That's an extremely high percentage. You can feel by your water that this can't be right. Besides, all the seasonal companies are in serious trouble and that's not exactly what we meant with each other. We were just trying to support the companies. I'm not asking for a detailed answer. I just want the Prime Minister's undertaking that he is prepared to look at this again. How can we solve this in a generic way better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u267	Mrs van den Berg knows that I have never said no to her in all the ways in which we faced each other. Only, I'm doing this on behalf of others, too. I am therefore asking, through this microphone, whether there has been an official listening and whether I can say yes to this in the second term without arguing with half the cabinet. I'm gonna double-check, 'cause I get the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u268	That's good. Then you'll come back to that later. I still see Mrs Hermans. No? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u270	We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. I now turn to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u271	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to answer the questions about vaccination, then a few questions about testing and then a few more questions. Mr. Chairman. Vaccination is going to give us the way out of this crisis. That's why: the sooner, the better. I understand everyone's impatience on that point. Everyone's impatience is actually my impatience. We're looking for all the roads to do it faster. Until the very last shot is done, we'll see if we can speed it up. If you look at the speed, we depend to a large extent on a number of factors. Unfortunately, the factor on which we are most dependent is the most difficult to influence. It is also the factor that determines the biggest difference between where Europe is, where the UK is and where the US is. It's about deliveries. Those deliveries have an important background, particularly in production. We've appointed a special envoy. You've seen his report. It does not indicate that we could accelerate a great deal in the short term. In Hindsight there might have been a few things different. In the future, too, you really should do a number of things differently there. This is particularly about the extent to which you, even as a government, interfere with production. This is not only about contracting vaccine suppliers, but also about contracting producers separately. That is what the UK and the US have done differently. Israel is another case apart. There are actually the greatest differences in speed: deliveries, especially with the background of production. What elements were discussed today in this debate on acceleration? It's about the supplies. That's about the shot sequence, so it's about the shot strategy. That's also about the way we set up the operation and whether it's large enough. I want to check all three blocks of questions that have been asked. First of all, the stocks. In fact, all the groups have asked questions about this. I think a part of the technical briefing has already been explained this morning. I will also answer this with reference to the previous debate I had on this subject, particularly with Rob Jetten. He also tabled and held a motion on this at the time. He asked if you couldn't actually take any more risks on the supplies. I explained at that time that we are always looking at whether we could take more risk with the stocks. The day you can take more risk is the day you discover that the liver security is increasing. It is, of course, logical that, when a factory just starts delivering in such a crisis situation, those deliveries are never quite steady at first. So you have to be a little careful. But that caution can of course be reduced as the liver security increases. At BioNTech/Pfizer, to start with, the liver security is just fine. The agreements are good, the agreements are kept, you know a bit in advance where you are and so we can reduce the stock period there from five days to three days of pricking stock as a security stock. That's important. Besides, we have Moderna. There are only so few of them that we hardly have to keep stock of them. So we don't. Then we have AstraZeneca. Of course, there is quite a number of delivery issues. When we had the previous debate, the refrigerator for Astra was almost empty, because there were a few delivery setbacks. But by now, we've got a lot of supplies. This has to do with a number of factors. The most important factor is the pause. We had to take that break as a precaution, because we got some signals about possible serious complications. That really had to be investigated before we could move on. So we pressed the pause button. By chance we had just before a rather heavy delivery and just after that we got two more deliveries, in the same week in which the break had been announced. This means that stocks are increasing considerably. We are now, of course, going to take these supplies out of the way more quickly. But for Astra, I can't keep a three-day security supply. That's where we opt for a five-day security stock. Even that, given past experience, is quite exciting. Because you shouldn't want to have to cancel tens of thousands of or even hundreds of thousands of agreements immediately and re-plan, because that all concerns the whole operation, if it's a problem with a truck and yes, with Astra's trucks. This is not only a disappointment for the people themselves, but it is a source of the whole vaccination operation. In short, we are trying to get rid of the available supplies as quickly as possible. Stock is no issue when it comes to BioNTech/Pfizer and also when it comes to Moderna. At the moment, that's actually only true for Astra. That's a temporary issue, because we're running it off as fast as we can. If the Astra vaccine gets insured, we'll go down at Astra in days of pricking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u272	I actually want you to ask all the questions about vaccinations first...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u273	Finish all supply questions? Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u274	And then you will have the floor, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u275	There are really a few things about vaccinations, so maybe we should keep the stocks separate for a while. That would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u276	I'd do anything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u277	Okay. Yes. This was the most important thing about supplies. Then Mrs Bergkamp asked how things could be very different in other countries. It's very difficult to compare. Last time, Rob Jetten quoted from the ECDC list. I took a good look at that one. There are many different calculation methods and assumptions from different countries. For example, what do you define as stock? You've got everything that's brought in first. Part of that needs to go through quality control before the stock is available. Then it depends very much on the day you stick the stick in it. 'Cause on day one, of course, you have a lot. It is then driven out during the week. Then it drops to a minimum and then you have a lot again. Good stock management shows some kind of saw tooth. Which day in the week you stick the stick in, therefore depends entirely on how the comparability is. If you want to compare internationally, I think it's easiest to keep the other list of ECDCs: how many shots have been put per 100 inhabitants? Then the Netherlands is at fourteen and a bit. Germany is also at fourteen and a bit and France and Belgium as well. In fact, everyone is in the middle of Europe at fourteen and a little bit. That's where the Netherlands stings. Last few weeks it was a bit less due to the break, but in the next few weeks we will just catch up again. In this respect, all Europeans are quite similar. Those were the supplies. Then I come to the question of whether there's any other way you can speed up. For example, can you keep a different stick order? What you've heard a lot in the last few days is: shouldn't we just do the ic target group? The ic target group sounds a little crazy. I mean the people who have the most chance of getting on the ic. Of course, we could have done that, but we didn't, because the advice of the Health Council is different. It says: start with the most vulnerable people and with the people who take care of them, because if you do, you avoid the most mortality and you actually book the most health benefits. The proof of the Health Council's equal is actually just the mortality rate. If you look, you'll see it was over 400 a week around Christmas. For the past week, it was around 20 a week with the nursing home residents. You can really see the evidence of the success of that order, I think. Age is the most important indication of risk. If we hadn't applied that 2 million to the oldest and most vulnerable people, but for example the people between 50 and 80, the people who have the most chance of getting to the ic, we would never have been able to make this health gain. So I do not think that is going to accelerate us in terms of health gains or pricking strategy. Then there's the other suggestion, the one-prick strategy. That's a suggestion I felt a lot about myself. I've also submitted it twice to the Health Council. The first time was on January 4th. At the time, I asked the OMT and the Health Council together to advise me whether there could not be more rapid vaccination by just giving the first shot and the second one after everyone had had the first shot. I asked the Health Council that same question again in February. A further recommendation was made on 8 March. The Health Council advises "better of no." The reason the Health Council says so is that there is now reason to believe that if you delay that second shot for too long, the presence of antibodies will decrease over time. When that happens, people have less protection, especially people with a more vulnerable immune system. That's the first reason why I don't want to. The second reason for not wanting it is that if it is, it actually gives you more space for virus variants that are less sensitive to the antibodies produced or which are more contagious. That is certainly not wise to do at this stage of the pandemic. In fact, if you model that, it can even lead to negative health effects. And so the Health Council says, "Better off not." They've said that twice. I've continued to see how one-prick strategy can still speed things up. That could be done by targeting that one shot for the people who have already been infected. If you've already experienced an infection, only the second shot will provide sufficient protection. So, for the people who've been through the infection for the past six months, we're gonna go ahead with one shot. The Health Council says that's wise to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u278	I understand that this has already been discussed extensively in the technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u279	Yes. And just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u280	You've got a taste for it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u281	To reassure the people who think we're going to sit down the second shot all the time, that's not the case. The next week is three quarters a first shot, the week after that 85% a first shot, the week after that 94% a first shot and that stays for a while until we go down from week 20. Then you see that more and more second shots are going to be made. That's exactly what you expect in that order. In short, in response to the suggestion to ask the Health Council again, I fear I will get the same answer. It will be a fairly short opinion, namely'read our opinion of 8 March, because we have already explained it clearly'. There is always the agreement with the Health Council that if they themselves have new scientific information, they will also come up with a new advice. Mrs Kröger asks how young people with underlying suffering, who have often been at home for a year, can be pricked later than healthy people of 40. That's not true. Those who are most vulnerable, older people and people who belong to a medical risk group, of course, we have also asked the Health Council which groups are most at risk of medical risk, who are vaccinated with priority, so before "healthy" or less vulnerable people get their turn. Then the PvdA: can the Minister guarantee that all 60-plussers were vaccinated in May and that before 1 July everyone had one shot? Warranty? I'm always dependent on the delivery of vaccines. That's so decisive. If the supply stops, I really have a problem in guaranteeing a vaccine. But if you ask me the assessment based on what we know now, I do assume that at the beginning of July we gave everyone at least that first shot and about two thirds of people the second shot. That is indeed the assumption. Yesterday at the press conference I indicated what I expected: 3 million shots at the beginning of April, in mid-April I expected 4 million shots and the people with a high medical risk and the 80-plussers had their first shot. At the beginning of May we are at 5 million pricks and most people over 70 have had their first shot. In the middle of May, that applies to the 60-plussers. At the beginning of June we will be at 11 million pricks and by mid-June the 50-plussers will have had their first vaccination. The 40s and 30s are also in June for a first shot, followed by the twenties at the end of June, early July for their first shot. In short, it's getting rapier. That has everything to do with the delivery. I have a few more target group questions, then I will address the question of acceleration and the question of puncture capacity. Mrs Sazias asks: according to the current schedule, all 70-74-year-olds are due in June, whereas the minister promised earlier April-May; how can that be? Now, the group 70- to 74-year-olds is vaccinated from April. That will remain the case unless we are faced with very disappointing deliveries. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union asks how the group 75- to 79-year-olds are doing. On 6 March the first invitation fell on the mat, but almost three weeks later only 15% was pricked; why does it take so long? The availability of vaccines simply limits the pace. Most of the group 75- to 79-year-olds are invited. This week, the last part of that group receives the invitation. 15% of this group has received the first shot and that percentage is of course rising rapidly in the coming weeks, because the last group of 75 to 79 year olds will receive an invitation this week. They're gonna call for a vaccination appointment. The vaccination will then take place somewhere in the next few weeks. So you'll see the percentage rise quickly. Immediately after these invitations were issued, we started with the group 70- to 75-year-olds. Then Mrs Dik-Faber asks if there is any possibility of making a reserve list of people from the same cohort. Of course, we intend to have the GGD ordered as precisely as possible. We do not want there to be too much spillover. The use of the remaining vaccines is maintained in order to maximise the use of those vaccines for the vaccination strategy. We have now developed such a supply system with the GGD that you actually have virtually no pivoting. Then there is Mrs Sazias' question about the coulance of the couples. She pointed that out last time. That's when I pointed out the current coulance agreement. Suppose your partner falls into a different age cohort and there's actually no other way to get you to drive to the prick's street, is it possible that you go together as partners? Yeah, I told you, that coulance is being used. But you really need to see that as a coulance, which doesn't apply to the whole range, because otherwise you just get a kind of priority system that allows you as a partner to always go along with it. So we're only doing this for the elderly. The GGDs have thus made it possible for flocks born in or before 1946 to be vaccinated together from 75 years of age or older. For practical reasons, however, this cannot always be guaranteed. It doesn't work out in all cases. What's that got to do with? You have to make an appointment for the people separately. About 5,500 call center employees are in the process of making those appointments. It may be that when an employee finishes the first appointment, the time lock is already forgiven to someone else just after that, because others also call at that time. There is no other way to settle that in the system. But as much as possible, the GGD wants to use partner coulance for the elderly. I fully agree with this: if there is any ambiguity in the instruction "I have noticed that after you asked that question "it is necessary for that instruction to be given as sharply as possible. That's what's really being done. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked a question about children and young people who do not yet have access to vaccination. Is it not time to reform that policy? We have asked for advice from the Health Council. On 2 March I submitted the request for an opinion. I expect to receive the advice in the course of April. Is it advisable to also vaccinate children? And is it advisable, if children are very vulnerable, to vaccinate their environment as a matter of priority? That was a question from GroenLinks last time. I expect to get those advices. Right now, we're vaccinating from the age of 18. One vaccine has been authorised from 16 years of age, as it appears that clinical data were already available, but not yet available. That is being studied at the moment. So I'm gonna ask the Health Council what's best to do. These were the questions about the groups, the prick order and whether there is any acceleration in them. Unfortunately, I am afraid not, except on that one point of the people who have already been infected. Then there's the other gear option. Is there another acceleration in the operation? Of course, that's what you hear: 24 hours a day, the use of all kinds of helpers and so on. I have indicated that from the outset the puncture capacity has never been the barrier factor. It was always the deliveries and never the pricking capacity that was the obstructive factor. We made the appointment with the GGD, with the LHV, so the GPs, and with the LNAZ, so the acute concern, that they will prepare a further scaling-up. In doing so, it should be possible to administer up to 2.5 million vaccinations every week. The whole organization is deliberately built on overcapacity. If you ever see an empty GGD location in a single TV program where there is a location and there are pickers, but no vaccines yet, that's exactly right, because we made the agreement to organise overcapacity. In all cases, I want us to be ready as soon as possible. On 1 May, all parties are effectively operational in these numbers. The capacity naturally grows to 1 May. Before that time, there is plenty of overcapacity to poke away anything that comes in. The GGDs are going to organize 1.5 million of these 2.5 million in a continuous stream. Again: they are ready from 1 May and in the run-up to that they are building up in that direction. In addition to this capacity, we will also need the use of general practitioners very badly. The structural capacity is 250,000 vaccinations per week. That's what they realize, at least for the group of people with medical indications. In addition, the general practitioners have the possibility to organise additional equally peak capacity at a number of times. There are a number of preconditions for this, of course, but they will. That's the same kind of appointment I made with the hospitals. They will prepare themselves as a third party for large-scale vaccinations. By the way, hospitals also do people with a high medical risk. The hospitals are already doing that anyway. By the way, the hospital pharmacists are helping us in a different way. In short, there is already sufficient capacity available. There's excess capacity in place. There will be a lot more overcapacity. I do not recognize at all the signals from Mrs Ploumen or Mrs Sazias that the hospitals would have offered to help and that we rejected that. On the contrary, we are very grateful to use all the capacities that hospitals have. I'm very happy about that. That was the third block, about whether there is acceleration in the vaccination in terms of capacity. Then there's the vaccination certificate. Mrs Bergkamp asked: when will that finally come? I indicated in the letter of 8 March that the cabinet wants to develop a vaccination certificate, in any case to facilitate international travel this summer. We are, of course, doing so in line with what the European Commission is proposing. I have said that I have a number of comments to make. You have the more ethical concerns. People should never feel forced to prove that they have been vaccinated. So there must always be an alternative. That's one. The medical comment is perhaps just as important. You do not know enough about the degree of transmission inhibition after vaccination. In short, you don't know if someone who has had a vaccine actually plays no part in the spread of the virus. That is why it is not interchangeable at the moment. A negative test certificate, a negative test certificate, gives, quite rightly, a green check mark in the test app, but not yet vaccination, because we just don't know enough about it. Of course, you shouldn't think about organizing all kinds of events where you're gonna screen the entrance door properly and someone slips through it who's vaccinated and still carries the virus, transfers it, and infected someone who then infects his whole family. Of course, we shouldn't have that. Immunity, a declaration of immunity, is such an alternative. That's actually the same thing. We do not yet know enough about the degree of transmission inhibition. In short, of course we hope to gain that knowledge and technically we are fully prepared, so that we are ready for it anyway when we have the answer. Then the SP says: what does the government think about vaccine producers making big profits? If you put it that way, that a company is contributing many billions as a result of the crisis, then I think I'm leaning towards what you think, namely: that shouldn't really be possible. At the same time, Pfizer is also just a company. If you say Pfizer is adding 4 billion this year, I think: well, but every week we spend longer in a lockdown costs us 4 billion like the Netherlands. That's the other side. So I'm willing to pay for it. We didn't negotiate a lot on the price either. Of course, good price agreements have just been made, but it's not like we said: if we think it's too expensive, we're not gonna pay and we don't want your stuff. If I had said that, of course, we would have had too few vaccines at the moment. Then there's the situation around HALIX. That is, of course, part of the conflict between the European Commission and Astra. It is not so much a conflict with HALIX; I am committed to saying that. The European Union has a conflict with Astra. A transparency mechanism has therefore been agreed, whereby companies have to prove what their items related to vaccine or drug production are intended for, before they can be carried out. That is not a generic export ban, but it is a transparency mechanism, so that you know what is being made true. In this case, the case is as follows: is it true that items are currently being delivered to AstraZeneca who wants to use AstraZeneca for the British contract, but in which AstraZeneca does not take account of the agreements made with the European Commission? That's the issue. There are a lot of things going on in the monitoring and in the discussions between the Commission and AstraZeneca. I think it's wise not to have that conversation in the paper if you want it to come to a solution. I am absolutely convinced that we must finally get rid of the export restrictions. Why? Because all vaccine supplies are global supply chains. If we put a brake on that and if everyone sits on their own things, we know one thing for sure: then the operation is delayed all over the world. We just can't afford that. That was vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u282	Good. I have Mrs Bergkamp, Mr Wilders, Mrs Sazias and Mrs Marijnissen. The questions must be brief, and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u283	Because it was such a big block, I have a lot of questions. I'll make them as short as I can. It's about Pfizer and pricking. The Minister indicated last time, partly following an interruption by Rob Jetten, that there was a need to speed up. On the schedule I see that from week 8, week 9, week 10 and week 11 there is less and less pricking with Pfizer. How is that possible? A few weeks ago, of course, we knew that Pfizer's delivery is stable, and there's more to it. Then why are we stinging less?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u284	You'd be asking a lot of questions in a row. But that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u285	Do you want me to ask you more questions in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u286	Yeah, go ahead. The Minister's in on it, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u287	Okay, here they come. About ECDC and its comparison with a number of countries, the Minister says: you have to look at a different schedule. I've looked at that, but we're also below average. So I still wonder why we are less pricked than other countries. I am also pleased that the Minister has indicated that we are technically fully ready for the vaccination certificate. That's what I'm assuming. I do have a question about the development, the transmission the Minister was talking about. When will we know from research that you won't be able to pass on the virus after you've been vaccinated? Those are my first three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u288	As far as Pfizer is concerned, so far we have held a five-day security stock. Last time, I explained that every time the security of the liver increases, we will see if the security stock we want to maintain can be reduced. That's the case with Pfizer, so that's why we go from five to three days. That will be included in the pricking schedule in the next few days. In the last few weeks, it's just been working with those five days. The resultant of this can be seen in the punctures. In recent weeks, the decline in the number of pricks we've made per week has been all about reduced deliveries of Astra and Astra's pause button. Prior to the moment of the pause button, there were reduced deliveries. Just a few days before we pressed the pause button, we got a big delivery. A few days later we got two more deliveries on top of that. That explains the high stock for Astra. For Pfizer the stock is break-even. In the answer to question 7 of the questions asked to me by the Labour Party, I gave an example of the calculation. If you stick the stick on March 19th, the available stock of vaccines is 7% compared to the number of shots put in. That's actually pretty low. That's internationally fine and okay. From Moderna the available stock is 2%. Only Astra shows 40%. That has everything to do with what I have just explained. Then the ECDC. All these lists just show a little bit of a different equation. You may, of course, keep any other list, but I would like to say that the whole European Union is actually at a similar pace. It may be a little more or a little less, but the real differences are with the UK, with the US and with Israel. There are the real differences, but within the European Union it is all about the same. We've had a break, and that explains where we are right now. We're gonna prick it out of here and then we're gonna go back up a little bit. It's all gonna be pretty much the same. When could it break up within the European Union? That's in that second quarter, because we took our share of the contract pro rata. Again, deliveries are the most decisive. So we have taken our share of the contract pro rataly, but every additional opportunity we had to come up with top-up contracts or extra contracts, we have seized. So these are opportunities where we could not only reduce our pro-rata part, but also a pro-rata part that other Member States left behind. You will see this in the newspaper over the next few days, because several Member States are now regretting it and believe that the rest of us, Mr Kurz, have already said that we must redistribute it. Of course we say no to that, because we have just kept to that transparent distribution system. You will see that because of this we are going to break up a little bit, but then the Netherlands is right. The vaccination certificate. I'm not saying we're done, but I'm saying we'll make sure we're technically ready when we can start using it. I expect an opinion from the Health Council in April on the degree of transmission inhibition that may be assumed at vaccination. Whether that's a conclusive answer, I don't know. So I do not know whether we can say: yes, there is a green light to work with a vaccination certificate as well. I know, however, that I promised the Chamber in Mr Segers' person that I would have a debate with the Chamber on this first. This will be due, among other things, to the legislative proposal on test certificates, but we will also have to regulate the vaccination certificate properly when we would like to get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u289	Thank you for our advice in April, and also for the fact that the Minister once again agrees that it can also be technically possible if it becomes possible. I have another question about the Health Council. I have made a suggestion about this myself. The Minister has already asked the Health Council for advice on this one-prick strategy a few times. It seems to me very interesting and also important to relate this to the prevention of hospitalisations. I think that is a different question from the one that has been put to the Health Council so far. It's a different angle. I understand medically, and it's nice to get a second shot within a certain period of time, otherwise your antibodies will be reduced. But I would also like to include it in the approach to what it means to society and what it means to prevent hospitalisations. I'd like to get a reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. I do draw the conclusion about Pfizer that we go from five to three days, but I also think it could have gone to three days a few weeks ago. I think so, but perhaps the Minister can convince me that there was another insight at the time not to wear those three. If not, I still find this disappointing. AstraZeneca I understand, but at Pfizer I really think: maybe that could have been really faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u290	The point is, you don't know that until after. At some point you will of course assess the security of supply as sufficiently sure to take additional risk. I do know that not everyone in the executive parties is enthusiastic about this. I explained this last time in an exchange of views with Mr Jetten. There's also some doubt that those five days aren't too exciting. I don't think so, but I'm sure we'll have to cancel a couple of appointments. That's right about 10,000, but that's the way it is. I'm sure that's gonna happen sometime, but that's a risk you're gonna have to take. It is always a risk and the question is whether that risk is justified. I think so. The Health Council. I would like to respond to that in the sense that I will ask the Health Council if there are new scientific insights leading to a different conclusion. I would like to add that, for example, with regard to the number of hospitalisations. But I do think we should be careful as long as we ask the question until we like the answer. The Health Council must, of course, simply advise us on the basis of the latest scientific findings. The danger that you select in such a way that especially virus variants that are more resistant can get a kick start due to the selection you apply because of only one shot, is of course a real health risk that you have to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u291	However, vaccination policy is very carefully said to be a bit of a gang. We are not only chasing it, but I understand that the Minister corrects me if I am wrong about the 27 000 shots by the Netherlands last Saturday and 875,000 by the United Kingdom in one day. Of course, that's not how we're gonna make it. I'd still like to break a lance for that one shot. I believe you have 600,000 to 700,000 vaccines on the shelf, in stock. I'd still like to ask you for that one shot. I just got an e-mail from a 74-year-old gentleman. He says, "I'm a serious heart patient, I've got a pacemaker and I've had a pulmonary embolism, but I haven't even had an invitation yet." When I look at your schedule, I do not see the 74-year-olds on it. They haven't even been approached yet. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. The gentleman or the lady could have had one shot, of course, or could get a shot if you put those 700,000 vaccines in stock. So my question is again: why don't you? Of course, I understand that the Health Council is an important body, but it is an advisory body, just as the Economic and Social Council and the Netherlands Association of Housewives, if they still exist, are advisory bodies. But you're the minister. You may also, if you have good arguments, deviate from an opinion of the Health Council. The Health Council is not sacred. He's important, but not sacred. I just heard you say: I wanted to; I even asked twice. I'd say show you're a leader. Tell the Health Council a lot of respect for you, but I'll follow my line and go my way. Tell them that 74-year-old gentleman I just mentioned and others who end up on ICU when they get sick are getting a shot right now. Tell him you're a little different from the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u292	Let's get back to the supplies first. I explained that we are taking the maximum risk, at the limit of what is justified. You can take more risk with BioNTech/Pfizer than with AstraZeneca. The reason we now have quite a lot in stock is that we had a large delivery just before the break. Then we had the break, for a good reason. I believe you also support that break. During that break we had two more deliveries inside. That means that you now have a decent supply, which of course needs to get out as soon as possible. In any case, supplies at the sharpest of the cuts go wrong. It's going to mean that tens of thousands of appointments have to be cancelled. It's possible. But we have to, at the sharpest of the cuts. You want to be able to choose a prick strategy that helps to give more people something of protection, before you can offer everyone full protection. I very much agree with Mr Wilders. When I applied for advice from the Health Council to the Bureau in January, my assumption was that it will help us speed up, that it will help us slow down the epidemic faster, that we will have fewer hospitalisations faster and that we will be able to remove the need for measures more quickly. That was my assumption. Later that was the case again, also because I had seen international studies and had seen reports about it. The Health Council has looked very closely at this twice. He had it modeled very well the second time. The point here is, first of all, that you see that the antibodies are decreasing, as it is called,................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They tend to fall if you come outside the time limit of the label, so to speak. This is reflected, for example, in a Scottish study. There is therefore every reason to believe that protection, the level of protection, is decreasing. In conjunction with that, the Health Council points out in its opinion of 8 March, a very recent opinion that you are then going to select the virus variants that are less attracted to the vaccine, which are somewhat resistant to the vaccine, especially in the people with a slightly less protection, with partial protection. That could lead to this in the Netherlands... We have a South African variant on Dutch soil. It seems less susceptible to the vaccine, it is said. Some studies point to this. It could mean you're going to select for that South African variant. This is a real health risk, which can then affect everyone. That means you'll be in trouble longer. That's why the Health Council says, "Be wise and stay inside that label." You will say, "But what about Britain? Surely that has a kind of health council and that will be well advised?" Yeah, sure, but there's no difference for AstraZeneca either. Great Britain also pricks the second shot on the twelfth week. There is mainly a difference with BioNTech/Pfizer. That is what our Health Council says: keep that within the limit of the label; we have gone from three weeks to six weeks, stick to that margin. The Health Council in the UK says: make that week six now week twelve, that's possible. Fair enough. They do. Let me just ask what the potential profit is. Over the next few weeks, three quarters, 85%, 94%, 70%, 82%, 88% and 76% first shots. That's until week 18. So over the next few weeks, we're just gonna set up over three quarters of first shots. It is only at the end of the second quarter that we are going to put second stakes in particular. But that also makes sense at that stage. In short, I think that it is not going to make us so much profit in the end, except for the people who have already been through the disease. We're gonna work on it to protect it with one shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u293	I understand. But even then, you could prick more people if you apply the one-prick strategy for the time being. So it turns out. Let's say you're gonna sit on that second shot for 12 weeks, like in the United Kingdom. Then you can prick more people in the short term. You're saying the Health Council says that it might be a little less protected. But I also see in the scheme that vaccines will run in the millions in a few months' time. Then millions, I think even tens of millions, come in vaccines. So I think it's something that's happening, knowing that tens of millions are coming later. So why wouldn't you do that now? A lot of people are largely protected, is still better, especially the elderly. They want to be vaccinated voluntarily. They can also reduce the pressure on health care, the ic's. You can help them with that. Maybe you'll give that other group a little less protection, okay? 'Cause you're sure you can prick the one with the tens of millions later. Perhaps even twice; we are talking about four times the population at some point. So you're in good laundry at some point. Just do that. Consider it at least, because I think your arguments are stronger than those of the Health Council. You have the numbers. You can do it and you can help a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u294	To what extent is that actually going to give us acceleration, is relative. You've just heard the percentage of first shots for the coming period. So that's relative. I had the assumptions you made myself. I thought, if you put those first shots first, you've protected more people a little bit, and that's always better than fewer people at all. But first of all, if the health price you have to pay for it is more disease and more mortality among the most vulnerable group and secondly, if the health price you have to pay for it is helping the South African variant, then you finally bought a cat in the pocket if you follow that strategy. And the health council says there's a big risk of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u295	Finally. I'm not the only one saying this. Mr Kuipers, virologist Jaap Goudsmit and Professor Ben van der Zeijst, professor of vaccines, also say so. Legio scientists say, even after the last advice from the Health Council early this month: do it now, it can work. Of course, there are some risks, I'll be the last to deny that. But there's also that 74-year-old gentleman who can get his first shot. Indeed, you mention percentages and say that profits are relatively low. But you're just gonna be one of those 10%-20% who's not with that 80% and who's now waiting for that shot with a pulmonary embolism or as a heart patient. Those people are helping you. So is it true that it causes relative health damage? Isn't it going to make a lot of profit? Could you at least take another look at that? The majority of the House said, in a motion which I adopted last year and which the Minister knows, that we should have added elderly people with comorbidity immediately. We wouldn't be in so much trouble right now. That has not happened or too little, and can now be partially restored by the one-prick strategy that Mr. 74 years old is helping a little earlier than he would otherwise be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u296	He's watching, the 74-year-old gentleman. By the way, we have a very lively email and call contact with the previous gentleman you gave us, so that's gonna be fine. This gentleman's watching, too. Of course, he just gets invited quickly. This week we invite the last group of 75- to 79-year-olds. Then we continue with 70 to 74. Then we start from above and go down the stairs. So the 74-year-old gentleman's up soon. That's the good news. The point is not that I would not ask the Health Council again. Only, I've already asked that question twice. I believe that the last opinion of the Health Council on this point is convincing in its scientific basis, also because, of course, it is based on modeling. Again, I'm for every gear. But if you have to pay the price that it will lead to more disease and death, or if you are helping the South African variant in the saddle, then I think there is sufficient reason not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u297	Good. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u298	But I will ask the Health Council, as I have already promised to Mrs Bergkamp, whether he wants to see if there is any new scientific knowledge that leads to a different conclusion since 8 March. I will also take with me whether that could do anything with the bed occupancy. Then I'll inform your room about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u299	Good. I have Mrs Sazias, Mrs Marijnissen and then Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u300	I'd like to come back to vaccinate the couples. There is a considerable difference between this debate and the previous one. I now hear a number of nuances, while the Minister said in the previous debate that this could be done very well in general. He also nodded very strongly; that is not in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u301	I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u302	It is now, because you have now said it very graphically. So, yeah, now it's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u303	Yeah, that's why I'm gonna mention it. Then it's gonna end up in there anyway. The fact is that I am swamped by messages and e-mails from people who say, "What Mr. De Jonge says is not true at all. That's not right, because I called, and it depends on who you get on the phone. If you call half an hour later, it may happen that it can, because the person will allow it." So what you just said needs to be made very clear. That needs to be clear to people, so they know exactly what these nuances are, but you also need to make sure that all the GGD's call centre staff have the same instructions. It has to be very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u304	Yeah, absolutely. I couldn't agree more. By the way, it is a finite issue. Of course, we have almost had the group of 75 years and older, so it is a finite issue. There's no need for it underneath. Those people can just go to the prick's street by themselves. In any case, we have a lot more in the country by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u305	But you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u306	Sure. The instructions to the staff on the phone must be clear. Absolutely. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u307	But when are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u308	We did. The GGD has instructed its employees well. We did. There's partner coulance. There are just a few comments. I just explained that. If you make an appointment with the same lady on the phone right after each other, for example, there may be some time in between. It's possible. It's possible. We can't prove that people are each other's partners. So it's really about coulance. It's not some kind of right or something that anyone can bring a partner. That's not how it works. Otherwise, of course, you're gonna change the whole order. So it's not like anyone can bring someone under their arm in the sense of "this is my partner today." That's not how it works. So it's a coulance that people can use on the phone, without all kinds of evidence, because we also need to keep it a little human.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u309	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u310	Finally. So this is really a different story from the previous debate. I don't know when you've instructed those GD staff again. So would you like to do that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u311	I'll check to see if that's enough. It has become to me that this has been done enough in the last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u312	I actually have two questions about vaccination. One is of a practical nature. We have a lot of contact with healthcare professionals who have already been vaccinated. Many of them have been invited again this week by their GP for vaccination, while they say: we have already been vaccinated and we have also given permission to share it with RIVM. That's important to mention. This leads to the question of whether the Minister is keen on whether the registration of the people who have been vaccinated is going well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u313	Well, not all automatic couplings have been made yet, so that's true. This is being worked hard, but not all automatic couplings have yet been laid. Part of that includes that not all people want to share their data. In fact, that's a little too big right now. So we have to work very hard to make it a bigger part again, because I really want to aim at 95%. By the way, these systems, these basic registration systems, are not always linked. For example, if you have been vaccinated in your own hospital because you work in a hospital, you may indeed be invited by the GP, because the GP takes you out of the administration. It's possible. That's not so crazy; that's possible. In this case, it could be a 64-year-old or 63-year-old who also works on the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u314	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u315	No, the age is right, but they don't work on the ICU.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u316	But in a hospital or in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u317	Yeah, but I've really heard it from several health care providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u318	But that's possible, isn't it? A general practitioner invites the 63- and 64-year-olds from his administration. A hospital does it at the hospital. A healthcare institution invites the people and then they make an appointment with the GGD themselves. It is true, therefore, that the basic registration from which they are invited does not necessarily have to be linked, but people themselves know whether they have been pricked or not. That's how good the memory's gonna be. And three vaccines, you don't usually feel like it, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u319	Good thing you know all that! That was the idea, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u320	Yeah, it's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u321	I think the Minister can imagine that it leads to many questions, but well. Another question is about the profits made on the corona vaccines. The Minister said quite translated: I think we should be glad that the vaccines are there. Yes, of course. We're all very happy about that. And also that they're relatively fast. Yes, of course. And they don't have to do it for nothing. No, of course not. But I was just asking the minister after the man. Such a Pfizer itself brings out "we actually expect to make a profit of $4 billion," 30% profit on a corona vaccine, on such a huge suffering for the whole world. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u322	That's what I just said. When you put it that way, I do think: yes, should you want that in this time of year? But the question is: is there really another choice? Companies make profits, which they use to make new investments, and those new investments lead to health gains at some point in time. That's kind of at the heart of the pharmaceutical industry. By the way, they make a lot of money. I will soon agree with Mrs Marijnissen. But the question is whether this is the moment when you could force that to lead to other margins. AstraZeneca, let's also say something nice about AstraZeneca, said very clearly, from the beginning: our vaccine has about the price of a cup of coffee; we don't have to get anything from it. Well, Pfizer's in a different way. Moderna's still in there. There the profit margins are much higher. Only, when we were negotiating last year, was the question for us: was that the time to say "well, if this is your price, then we're out of it"? Were we in a position to say that? I don't think so, because I think Pfizer would have said: fine, then we'll deliver everything to America first, then we'll deliver everything to the UK, then we'll continue with South America, then we'll continue with Asia; if Europe wants to be in the back of the line, fine. That's not exactly a good negotiating position. You'll understand. To be honest, I think you are right when you say: I think there is a lot of money being made in the pharmaceutical industry. I think I am right when I say: but I also think it is wise that money should be made in the pharmaceutical industry, because that is what they can reinvest in innovative solutions for tomorrow. By the way, this isn't the easiest time to start negotiating on the price, because if you're in the back of the line, you're the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u323	I cannot quite escape the impression that the Minister is here defending the pharmaceutical industry. Of course, we need as many vaccines as possible as soon as possible. So yes, of course support for that. I totally understand that. Of course, it is important that these vaccines are often largely developed with public money, taxpayers' money, our money. That makes it extra harsh, of course. It is not the case that a company comes up with a product and then makes a profit on it. No, often those vaccines with public money have been developed a long way, but such a pharmaceutical will then produce them and iron out the profits. That in itself must give thought. That is why I ask the Minister once again what possibilities he sees. It's not okay for a vaccine producer to just get rich over that much suffering, is it? We have in society entrepreneurs who simply break down, people who have eaten their entire pension, their entire savings to get even further. Of course, that's the other side, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u324	That is exactly the dilemma, I say in the direction of Mrs Marijnissen through you, Mr President. It's not that I like having a vaccine manufacturer write down so many billions. It's not like I'm cheering or anything. On the contrary. I do think that companies should be able to make a profit, because you should be able to reinvest. I do, but I'm not in favour of big profits from the pharmaceutical industry. The question at this time is how sharp you can negotiate on the price. We just talked about the one-prick strategy. Even if it could only save us a few weeks, we would be willing to go for it. You negotiating yourself in the back of the line at Pfizer, had just put us in reverse for months. And every week, the billions of state aid go out of the budget towards the same industry that suffers so much from these measures. In short, apart from the health damage, the economic damage of every week that you have to spend longer in lockdown is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u325	Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u326	So every week that you can get out of that lockdown sooner thanks to vaccinations, I'll give you a few nickels for that. That's indeed tax money, that's right. But, yes, we work with companies that we pay with taxpayers' money. That's right. Russia and China do that differently, and Cuba does that differently, but for the rest, the whole Western world is just running in the pharmaceutical industry, in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u327	Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u328	I would also like to ask you about the vaccination strategy and, in particular, about the people at medical risk. The Minister has actually put away our questions, earlier in debates and again now, with 'yes, there is high medical risk, they get priority' and that is it. Of course, it's a very large group. It concerns a million people, 250,000 people who have been in self-insulation for a year, who are covered by the RIVM definition of medical risk. Those are people who hear from their doctor: stay home, go in self-insulation. And then these people are actually started simultaneously with the 50 to 59 groups because they would be at similar risk. However, for that group, this whole vaccine is then equal to that of people of 40 or 30, for example. So it can easily be that someone with severe medical suffering is vaccinated later than a fully healthy 40-year-old. There's no way that's supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u329	No, I didn't. But it's not. That is not the case, because all medical groups are done first and only then the healthy people. A few things. The most important medical risk is your age. That's not nice to hear, but that's the way it is. This is evident from all, all, all international studies. In fact, that's getting very, very upsetting. That's why we made such a great health gain with the first 2 million shots. I think we can also celebrate that with each other: around 400 deaths of corona at Christmas in the nursing homes and last week 20. That is a huge health gain we have made there. That is also the reason for a vaccination strategy from top to bottom in terms of age and the people who care for the most vulnerable people, of course. The Health Council says there are a number of groups that have a similar high medical risk. Those groups should be done at the same time, they say, with the 70- to 80-year-olds. Those are the GP groups with a BMI over 40 and people with Down syndrome. In addition, these are a very limited number of groups with a limited number of conditions. They have a similar medical risk. They get pricked with asap, the people with Down and the people with a BMI over 40. They are already being pricked and the groups with a high medical risk being pricked into a hospital have been invited and are being pricked in the next few weeks. Then there's another group. That's actually the flu vaccination group. That's the group you're referring to. It has a similar medical risk to the 50- to 59-year-olds. We're gonna prick it, too. This is done by the general practitioners, by the way. After they have finished with the current group, which is between 60 and 65, they continue to prick the group that has a high medical risk, that flu vaccination group. It's just gonna be completed before we get to the 40s. So it's not like you're poking a healthy 40-year-old first and then someone with a higher medical risk. It must be an objective medical risk, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u330	That's incredibly objectivable, because that's the flu vaccine group. That is the group of which the RIVM itself says that there is a twice as high chance of a severe course of corona and mortality. So that's an objectivable fact. When I look at vaccination planning, I can see that this group of a million people actually starts at the same time as the group from 50 to 59, so I follow the minister, but then it goes on and those people are vaccinated at the same time with healthy people between 18 and 60. So I would like the Minister to adjust this schedule and that it is crystal clear to those people, who have been self-insulation for a year now, that they are really getting pricked first, all of them, before we start pricking healthy people between 18 and 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u331	If we did that, we'd be in a situation by then that you're saying, "Why is it all poaching up?" Because this group is being pricked by the general practitioners. The group with a medical indication similar to the 50 to 59 year olds is pricked by the general practitioner. Then I have to wait until the GPs are done with that before I can tell the GGDs that they can move on with the other people. That's a little weird, of course. You try to mass up, speed up and prick as much as you can as quickly as you can. People with a higher medical risk are more likely to get their turn than their peers. Which groups they are, the Health Council has determined for us. We have taken that advice on board. A number of medical groups, similar to 70- to 80-year-olds, are punctured simultaneously with 70- to 80-year-olds. A number of groups with a medical risk similar to a medical risk of someone between 50 and 59 are punctured simultaneously with them. We'll do that first. Then we will continue with the people at low medical risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u332	Again, the Minister said that there is a group that defines RIVM as people with a medical risk. Those are people with a double risk of death than those without a medical risk. That group is pricked simultaneously with the 50- to 59-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u333	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u334	That's what the Minister says. Fine. Can the Minister guarantee that this has been completed, so that this group is a million people priority over, for example, healthy 40s?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u335	No, that would be weird, too, because then I'd keep the G.D.D.s waiting until the G.P.s are done. I don't want to keep anyone waiting. I want gas on the shelf and make sure everyone pokes as fast as possible. What I'm telling you is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u336	I don't think that's what you mean. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u337	...the general practitioners are pricking people with a higher medical risk. They'll do it as soon as they're ready. They'll put them away as soon as they can. And we serve the general practitioners with as much equipment as possible, so that they can prick as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u338	Rounding up. It is simply incredibly painful for people who have been in self-insulation for a year on the advice of their doctor and who, because of a definition issue from the Health Council, do not belong to a very select patient group that has been given real priority, that they are only in September, while a perfectly healthy 40-year-old is first pricked. It can't be, and that's painful!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u339	What wouldn't be right is if we left this conclusion hanging. Because that's not the case. We have asked for very good advice from the Health Council to define the medical risk that people run as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u340	I suggest that you continue with the next topic. That's testing, I think. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u341	I would like to do that, but it is important to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u342	Yeah, everything we're talking about here is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u343	Sure, but otherwise there's going to be something very unfair going on, and it's not. Let's get back to the order in which we poke. That is the age and a number of high-risk groups. Which ones they should be, we haven't been bouncing around the department. That's what the Health Council did. He did that in consultation with the FMS. The Health Council and the Federation of Medical Specialists have jointly determined which groups have a similar medical risk based on international literature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u344	Yeah, but that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u345	Then that puncture sequence was turned off. It is not, therefore, that a healthy 40-year-old has his first shot rather than those who are at higher medical risk. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u346	Yes. This is exactly... final remark, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u347	Yeah, this might be a little entrapment after all. Look, the minister just literally said... I'm asking... it's a group that's said to have a double chance of death. That group gets the same risk classification as the 50- to 59-year-olds. So I ask if the Minister can guarantee that this group will be pricked first before the healthy 40s are up. Then the minister says: no, it can't be, because then the people should wait at the GGD; it has to be with the GGD first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u348	No, but it'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u349	So the conclusion is that someone with underlying suffering can only get their turn at the GP in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u350	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u351	The Minister can assure me that this group...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u352	Yes, guarantee as far as the deliveries allow. But I think you're also confusing the first and second shots. I'm assuming that the first shot would have been really sooner with the 50 to 59-year-olds and with the people with a medical risk than the GGD would have needed the 40s. Yes, of course. But it could be that that medical group also needs a second shot and that you are already putting the first shot in the 40s. Yeah, I think so, because I just want the GGD to speed up. But the suggestion that you would give a healthy 40-year-old priority over someone with a medical risk is really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u353	Maybe it's useful to describe that in a letter. The more detailed this discussion gets, the more everyone looks: what is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u354	I think a letter would be very good, but above all a vaccination scheme that gives clarity to this group, because they are very worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u355	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u356	We do, really. Then there are other questions asked, for example about testing. That is not so many, I say to reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u357	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u358	In particular, Mrs Hermans' question was as follows: what is going to happen with the access tests? We've had the field labs. We know that, as of May, if that bill is passed, we can actually get started with the access tests. But what can we do in the meantime? That is a little vague, I paraphrase Mrs Hermans. Before April we create a kind of calendar with what is again possible by that time. I want to conclude this next week with colleagues and the presidents of the security regions. Everywhere, of course, there is a limit to the number of access tests available. In March there were about 25,000 in one day, in April there will be an average of 100,000 in one day and in May, at least in the second half of May, we hope to have some 400,000 access tests available per day, which we really want to use. From May onwards, we can also process personal data in the app, if you adopt that bill. Only then will we be able to design these access tests very tightly, but in April we will simply use the app without personal data. We did that last weekend in Biddinghuizen with an access test capacity of about 100,000. So we create a calendar with where to use it. There are theatres, museums, pop stages and sports competitions. In short, everything and everything. Together with the colleague of EZK, the colleague of Sport and the colleague of Culture, we are making this calendar, in consultation with the security regions. I hope to be able to conclude that next week. Mrs Bergkamp asked when that test evidence would actually start. That depends a little bit on you, but also on me. I'll have to send the bill to the Chamber first. It's now with the Council of State. I think it's coming your way in the middle of April. There have been quite a few reactions; I believe 5,000 in the consultation. Of course, they need to be processed for a while. If you adopt that bill, we can actually get to work with test evidence before the test. There must be some basis for personal data. In addition, there must be a delineation of sectors that are allowed to use them. So I'm hoping for the beginning of May. Why aren't the self-tests in the store yet, the VVD asks. That is because today I was able to grant the first exemption to the first two companies that had applied for an exemption. Quick tests are a medical device and have a CE marking. In order to prevent all those companies from entering that very long journey, I have granted an exemption to the first two companies. There'll be more to come in the next week, I hope. Then I depend on how quickly manufacturers have their stuff at our Test Service and have their stuff in the store, so when it will actually be available in the store. I hope this is in April. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the pilots in higher education. I have agreed with colleague Van Engelshoven that this is what she has agreed with the people of higher education. We currently have eight pilot regions where rapid tests are already being carried out. That's not a take-off, it's a guided take-off. These pilots will be further developed within the eight regions. 31 educational institutions participate in this. Until mid-April, they'll do it that way. Then enlargement to other regions in the country will also take place, and I expect that the first self-tests will also take place from mid-April. I think I will get the first delivery on 12 April, at least I hope so. We will ensure that they get to the schools as soon as possible, so that they can spread them to their students and actually get to work with self-tests. By the end of April, if it is good and all deliveries continue, we will be in the millions of self-tests. Then it should also be possible to have enough, so that training courses that offer self-tests also to their students. In this way you hope to be able to offer physical higher education one day in a week in the week of 26 April, using self-tests. The VVD asks: could these pilots also help for the catering industry? I think that the solution for all other sectors is not so much self-testing, but more access testing. You could do that in the hospitality business. My picture of this is that I hope that we will be able to present, at least before 1 May, an amendment to the road map. In addition, we say: if you use quick tests, say we're suddenly in risk level three and you can go back to a restaurant with up to 30 people, you might actually want to use access tests, for example, to go up to 100 if that's workable on the surface of your restaurant; I'll just mention something. So I'm philosophizing about that: is that perhaps an opportunity to do so? For example, we want to do the same for the theatres. The maximum group size applies unless you use access tests; then that maximum group size may be raised. For example, I can see that we can also use access tests for an accelerated "open"....................................................................................................................................................................................... This is, of course, always limited by the number of rapid tests that can actually be carried out in the fast test infrastructure that VNO-NCW is building. Mr. Chairman. Those were the test questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u359	Yes. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u360	In order to prevent all forms of testing from getting mixed up, I would like to focus on what the cabinet calls in the letter "testing with the aim of ensuring safe access to social life." The ambitions for this are all in the letter. But the cabinet also writes that pilots are going to be done in April to see what facilities and activities we can do with this type of testing in the various sectors in order to securely regulate and guarantee access. When I read the letter exactly, the cabinet finally mentions only one pilot that is actually going to take place, because that is a football match. The question I have asked is why we do not use the month of April to try it out more widely: in sport, for example, in gyms, in theatres, cinemas, companies and larger shops... there are probably a lot of examples left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u361	Yes. I agree with you perfectly. If this is your aftertaste of the letter, then perhaps the letter on this point is not concrete enough. We're going to do that sports competition, but we're going to create a calendar to do exactly this type of activity. Those field labs were there to try out a number of settings really research-wise, more like a scientific experiment that could be evaluated et cetera. We can get the real access tests from May 1st. That has to do with actually being able to apply that app. But in April we have about 100,000 tests a day and then we just have access tests available. We'd like to spend them usefully, too. So that's what we're gonna do. Then we look for different possibilities and applications, for example for museums and sports. We are now discussing this within the Cabinet and also with the security regions. I hope to be able to present to you at the end of next week a 'calendar', i.e., in quotes of what we want to make possible again in April, indeed in the width you are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u362	That's good to hear. It would also be nice if we could see that next week, because it is also April next week. It is about sport and culture in all these sectors. It's wider than events alone. The museum called you yourself, but it could also be the gym or the cinema and the theater. Do you want to explore activities and amenities in width?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u363	Yes. You also mention the gyms. Look, there's a lot of them. Or we could use a few... I don't know. So I am not getting ahead of myself, because otherwise Mr Van Ark will be managing all kinds of expectations all next week. Let's just come up with that calendar by the end of next week. I hope it's ready then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u364	Short, just to make it clear. I am not concerned that this happens in all the gyms, but that you also do such a pilot in one or in a number of gyms to see if it can work and whether it can offer space in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u365	The field labs are a scientific experiment to see what kind of setting can do. The application we will choose in April is actually about what could be done anyway, because that is not so exciting at all. Of that we can make a number of things possible again. We are trying to do this on a broad front of sectors, and we are also trying to remember what the Dijkhoff motion once said about this. I'm just suggesting that we come forward with a result of that conversation by the end of next week. Then we're done testing and we're gonna go to some other questions. Maybe they'll actually hook up with this. Mrs Van Kooten-Ariës asked about the exit strategy, the medium term, the summer and the long term after the summer. She asked how we could orient ourselves a little more in time, at least that's how I understood her question, on what we could do when. I do not need to repeat all the uncertainties, because I have mentioned them so many times. That is quite right, because these uncertainties are commonplace. At the same time you want to put some calibration moments in time. When do we expect to be able to do something again with the vaccination? We're working on that. This is linked to what Mrs Hermans asked for. So that's what we're working on. How can you make an assessment of when we go from the level very seriously to the level, so when we go from level three to level two? What will be possible by then? And what could you possibly make possible by means of access tests already earlier? That's what we do. We're working on that. The next decision-making time is April 13th, and we want to send it to the Chamber. Ms Sazias asked if the Minister could use the 200 million package of welfare and prevention for, among other things, reactivation programmes for the elderly. Senior organisations have been asked to submit a plan within the framework of the social support package. One part of that plan is indeed the reactivation of older people after the restrictive measures are over. Three quarters of that support package goes to municipalities. More concrete plans can be made at local level. Through the stand-of-business letters, I will continue to inform you about the use of the 200 million for the aid packages. Mr Van der Staaij is concerned about special education. These are children with severe and multiple disabilities who really go to school very slowly. He asks if a little more space can be offered there. During the school closure in December there were groups of children who did attend school: exam students, students who take practical courses and students in a vulnerable position. In special education, where almost all children can be considered vulnerable, physical education was and is the norm. In response to previous questions by Mr Van der Staaij, I have once again brought this to the attention of the field of education. This was reported to the Chamber in a letter from the Minister for BVOM. Once again, schools are asked to make as much physical education as possible, especially in special education and especially in the p.o. and the vo. Mr Van der Staaij is not asking these questions for nothing. He poses them because he has received a number of signals and also has them in mind. Perhaps it is good to send me names and numbers from these schools outside the broadcast, because I know that Mr Slob has direct contact with schools when he hears these signals. If you send me those names, I will ask Mr Slob if he will take them up. When will there be more clarity as to the extent to which aerosols play a role in the spread of the coronavirus? This is a question from Mr Van der Staaij. There's just a role of aerosols. Extensive scientific research has also been carried out into aerogenic spread. This investigation is extremely complicated. RIVM is actively working on this. At present, there is no new time indication on the availability of new information. Then Mrs Dik-Faber's question to highlight what people themselves can do to increase their resistance. At the moment, a lifestyle campaign has been developed by colleague Blokhuis, focused on healthy eating and sufficient movement. The goal is that people feel fitter and have more resistance. That campaign will start in May. Furthermore, there are already several campaigns, but you already know them. Mrs Van Esch asks whether I am now going to work on the Old Man's passed motion calling for a notification requirement for companies with a COVID-19 cluster. I sent you a letter today, if it's all right, on how I see the execution of that motion before me. Mrs Ouwehand's motion aims to ensure that in companies where many migrant workers work, the corona measures are maintained in the event of a COOVID-19 cluster contamination among employees. In the proposed legislative proposal for the temporary closure of sites in the event of contagion, which we will be offering to the Chamber, I see the possibility of at least implementing Mrs Ouwehand's motion. This bill is intended to implement the Klever/Ouwehand motion of 21 January. In yesterday's stand-of-business letter, I indicated that the bill is expected to go to the Chamber on 7 April. Mrs Ouwehand's motion, which you are referring to, is about a notification obligation for a company to be set up if there is contamination. You can't, because that means that as an employee you are obliged to inform your employer about your medical situation. You can only do that with your doctor. By the way, that doctor has a notification and the GGD knows it. The bill we will send will be based on an intervention that is possible if the GGD detects a cluster at a company. Mr Van Haga asks about the models. On the occasion of the motion in part No. 1021 in which your Chamber asked the Cabinet to publish all RIVM models, I explained in detail in the stand-of-business letter of 23 March last that the models are public. The source codes of the models are publicly available on the RIVM website. RIVM models are generally published in peer-reviewed scientific journals for validation purposes. However, improvements or updates may take place later on the models and the results will be shared with the Chamber before there has been enough time to publish the models peer-reviewed again. It may also occur that underlying data is not published due to the privacy sensitivity. Everything that can be published is already public, available and bundled on the RIVM site. Mr President, I have had all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u366	Thank you. Then we will proceed with the reply from the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have received a number of questions from the Chamber about the care, the people working in the care, the slaughterhouses and the resistance problem. I like to walk them through. I'll start with Mr. Wilders. He asks when the people who have had to deal with the scaling down of regular care will be helped. I have already indicated that we are currently mapping this and that we are working hard together with the NZa, the healthcare parties and the insurers on a plan of action. This is expected to be completed in April. I do not know at this point, but I hope to know in the short term. The good news, which I would like to mention here today, is that in the NZa's latest report, we see that the number of referrals from the GP to medical-specialist care is almost at the level before the corona crisis. So we have a reservoir, but fortunately that does not fill up any further. The delay of 1.4 million fewer referrals will have to be tackled. Some of them are people whose care questions have been filled in in a different way or are gone, but there are certainly also people who are really affected by the complaints they had initially gone to the doctor for. In April, I hope to be able to send this to your room. When we debate the issue of care, it is of course often also about the people who work in the care sector. I have received two questions from your Chamber: a question about personal protective equipment, mouth masks, and a question about the appreciation of caregivers. We have had a lot of debates on this in recent times. Mrs Marijnissen also asked for this appreciation to be made. I also heard the financial appreciation in her speech. I very much agree with her that the people who work in care can count on our appreciation. They do important work. Again, in the early stage of the third wave, we ask them to prepare for the almost impossible phase 3, if it is no longer possible to do so, but if it must be as it should be. And now they're back. I think it is right that there should be a decent reward for this. I also refer to the arguments that have been put forward here on a number of occasions, which I know is not the same for a very large part of the Chamber, especially given the motions on which the vote has been taken. As a cabinet, we make extra money available every year for wage increases in healthcare. I also see some really good collective agreements. We have also made funds available, up to 130 million a year from 2023. I had several exchanges of views with the Chamber on a reward on top of the oval. At the moment, however, I have also informed the Chamber that we are a outgoing cabinet. This is really about fundamental choices, including in the financial sense. I assume that this is an issue that will be decided or can be decided during the formation, also because it requires choices in scarcity and, by the way, in a time of economic weather. In any case, it seems to me that we were right to do so when we were still missionary to include the ESC opinion on the issue of valuation, including in the longer term. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks about the situation surrounding the FFP2 masks. I do not know if she is still around, but at least I would like to thank her for the commitment she has made on this subject, but certainly also in terms of appreciation for the care staff. I know that the protection of the staff for the whole Chamber, but certainly also for Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, is a very important issue. I have also had discussions here with the trade unions, the domes, the professional associations, in which the adage that people should be able to work safely is really at the top of everyone's minds. We have also noted with each other that there should be no obstacles. That's what I said in a letter of inquiry. There should be no obstacles to communication on the workplace, not on stocks and not on additional costs. We've had a meeting from our roles. The government doesn't prescribe what people use for protection, but we want to see that these scientific insights are well translated. Those conversations took place. They were intense, but very good conversations. I have also seen that discussions have been held, for example, between the sectors and the people of the trade unions and the professions, also to give concrete signals. In addition, we have special eye for the stock of personal protective equipment. We also have the emergency supply of the National Consortium Tools. We have explicitly stated once again that the cost of purchasing personal protective equipment should never be a reason. There are therefore additional cost schemes covid which employers can rely on. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions that I could not quite group, but which each are extremely relevant to themselves. Let me begin with Mr Azarkan's question about outdoor sports. He rightly said: that increases resistance and is good for the well-being. It's been addressed by several MPs. We've got restrictions at the moment, but I'm glad there's something we can do within those restrictions. Because I have Sport in my wallet, but also because I know what it means for people's health, this is of course also high on my list. It is in any case possible outside, individually or under supervision in fours at 1.5 meters. In any case, I am pleased, within the limits that we have, that we do not have those restrictions for young people, up to 27 years old. Unfortunately, at the moment, the status of the virus is such that it is more risky than this, but I fully share everything that has been said today about the importance of sport. Mrs Van den Berg asked about innovations and the discussion we had about them. It's true that there have been round tables. There were many companies in the field of medical technology and in the field of medicines. This was mainly about improving the security of supply of medicines, but also of personal protective equipment. I have promised the Chamber that there will be a report on this. I'll send it to you soon. I'll tell Mrs Van den Berg that air cleaners weren't the subject of these talks. As regards the drip formation in the transmission of the virus, we have seen that it has added value to have practical research carried out on this. That's why we're talking to RIVM about setting up an investigation into the effectiveness of air cleaning. I can inform the Chamber about that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u368	Mrs Bergkamp, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u369	Yes, indeed, a question about sports. I forgot a question. I'm sorry about that. In July, the Olympic Games are held in Japan. A vaccination obligation is required. I was wondering if the minister is already in contact with NOC*NSF to discuss how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u370	Of course. I have a lot of contact with NOC*NSF, if only to get the positivity of the sport once in a while, because they always say: we see a problem, but we also like to be part of the solution. So there are those conversations. They have also really put down the dilemma: they ask this, but we do not want to take the place of people who are vulnerable. I like that very much. At the moment, we are looking at whether the planning is likely to run smoothly. So these conversations are taking place. As soon as we know more about this, I can of course let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u371	On the previous point, too, sport, Mrs Van den Berg? Oh, about the air cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u372	I would also like to know from the Minister to what extent this research looks at schools, for example. I think there's 360 million available to adjust the ventilation in schools. The big problem is that this amount is barely used in practice, because the schools themselves have to cough up 70% of the money. They just can't. That's why we're in very nasty situations. Can that be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u373	I think this was really about a practical study to see what the effectiveness of air cleaning is. That is, of course, different from the application to schools. That's my first reaction. I can check this out so I can answer it in the second term. I may also have to pass it on to my colleagues from OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u374	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u375	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party concerning the extension of the authorisation of azoles. This has been discussed at European level. We have often discussed this issue here. Today, the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, on the regulation of plant protection, takes place. The European Commission has proposed temporarily extending 45 substances. Why do they do that? The decision-making process has not been completed in time. It's not the applicants' fault. One of the substances on the list is an azole. The Ministry of LNV has supported the European Commission's proposal, but has given an explanation of vote against the temporary renewal of the active substance tebuconazole, which is the azole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u376	The whole package has indeed been voted for, but the registration has not been in order for three years. It's been automatically extended for three years. We are talking about a substance, tebuconazole, apologizing for the Report and Editorial Service, which is carcinogenic. That substance is harmful to the unborn child and to water life. This substance also ensures that fungi can be resistant to that agent. This may mean that people who lie in intensive care with covid and become infected by the aspergillus fungus........................................................................................................... I'm talking to the Minister of Medical Care right now. Surely we cannot say 'agricultural interests prevail', so we are voting in favour of the whole package, the whole cluster of substances', which should have been withdrawn from the market years ago. I am not talking to the Minister for Agriculture, who says that the interests of the ornamental farming sector are ahead of us. I'm talking to the Minister of Medical Care. I mean, public health has to be leading here, right? I have the following question: do you ask the Minister of LNV that this is harmful to public health, especially in these covid times?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u377	During these debates, I have often had an exchange of views with the Animal Party. In this case, this was often Mr Wassenberg's colleague, Mrs Van Esch. I would like to say quite sincerely that she has raised very interesting issues. In some respects, it has also really opened my eyes to the relationship between certain issues and health. I think that's something very valuable. I work with my colleague from Agriculture. I have often said that when it comes to the question of what is priority, for example, the zoonoses structure shows that the Ministry of Health is ultimately in charge of health issues. But we are also dealing here with a situation that is being raised at European level. We have insisted that the research results on the hotspots of resistance development should be taken into account, for example, in the re-evaluation of ornamental crops. My colleague from LNV, who also has a strong interest in public health, has asked the European Commission to draw up an overall plan of action to prevent the emergence of resistance caused by the use of plant protection products containing azoles. So as far as I'm concerned, there's no contradiction, but we're pulling together. I understand that Mr Wassenberg says: I want it faster. However, as far as I am concerned, it is particularly important that we achieve the goal. That health is, as far as I am concerned, a common goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u378	But right now, we're not gonna make it! We're talking about dangerous substances. We do not disagree on this, but those substances are in a package. A package of this kind will be voted on and her colleague from LNV will be able to say 'I will give an explanation of vote', but that makes no sense, because the substance will pass through. The Netherlands can also say: we think that public health, the health of those covid patients in intensive care, is so important that we do not want to burden them with a fungus that is resistant to that widely used tebuconazole. That's my trade-off, isn't it? I hear the Minister and we are in this together, but why is the importance of ornamental farming more important than the importance of public health and of those covid patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u379	I do not think it can be put against each other in this way. I disagree. We did not give that explanation of vote for nothing. There's a reason we made all these proposals. It is not for nothing that I repeat the importance of this over and over again in the debate. So there is no contradiction. In the end, in every issue, you have to deal with a lot of interests. I would point out that public health is a priority for the cabinet, but if, at some point in time, Corona has failed to meet certain deadlines, that is something to be taken into account. We are also talking about a government that needs to do good governance. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that what we have said there, including in that explanation of vote, is not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u380	Finally, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u381	Finally. We are talking about a substance that the Chamber said seven years ago: we must get rid of. This is now the third successive automatic extension. These are automatic extensions which the Minister of Agriculture could have voted against three times. Surely we can't keep saying with dry eyes that we can't help saying that we're gonna approve it again, 'cause we're a little delayed'? That substance should have been off the market for years and we simply allow it to continue to have its dangerous effects, not only on the unborn child and water life, but also on the patients in intensive care. That's what I'm so worried about. Why didn't we say we were just voting against the whole package? We should have done that a long time ago. My question is, therefore, why we should be satisfied with an explanation of vote if it allows the substance to remain on the market, when, as in recent years, we could have said 'that substance must be removed from the market and therefore we are voting against'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u382	Let me look forward to seeing if we can find each other again. Eventually, there will also be deadlines for that re-evaluation and that re-evaluation of the azoles, which is currently taking place, will come to a conclusion over the next one to two years. I see from Mr Wassenberg that he is going too slowly, but at least it is a steady process. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Van Esch's question on slaughterhouses, which I think has also been taken over by Mr Wassenberg. They note an increase in the number of corona contaminations in slaughterhouses. Let me give a comprehensive answer, because it is quite a complex matter. At least I'm aware of it. We work together with the Collaboration Platform for Migrant Workers and COVID-19 and that platform has these corona infections in mind. I was informed by the GGD, but also by the SZW Inspection about the recent situation at Vion in Boxtel and Tilburg. In addition, the NVWA has informed me whether it is safe for their employees and for those of the KDS at these locations. I'll start with Boxtel. The GGD states the following about this. Vion Boxtel's department tests the 1,600 employees themselves. They test people daily when it comes to employees with complaints and every week they test all employees. Their department will pass the positive tested persons on to the GGD. A total of 97 infections were detected between 28 February and 20 March. The people who are involved go into isolation in their own home or in another location. Their roommates go into quarantine and are also tested on day five. In the event of an infection, a connection is made to whether or not this has happened at work. According to the GGD, the source of the infections may be the work, but it may also be the living situation or transport. So it's not possible to tell if it's specifically the Vion location. In addition, the GGD indicates that the number of infections is in line with the increase in infections throughout the region. Subsequently, on 2 March, the Inspection SZW carried out an inspection at Vion Boxtel to ensure compliance with working conditions, including the corona measures. That's where the SZW inspection didn't report any violations. There is therefore no reason to stop work or to close down the establishment. Then the situation at Vion Tilburg. The GGD indicates that there are 250 people working at Vion Tilburg. In recent weeks, 23 employees have been tested positively through their own health service. It's been reported to the G.D.D. Looks like those infections took place in the private sphere. Some of the infections can be traced back to a private party. Everyone does a daily health check and goes along the test street. If anyone's tested positive, they should be in isolation at home. The roommates who work at Vion Tilburg also have to go home and quarantine. The inspection SZW also carried out an inspection at this location, namely yesterday. So that's very recent. They've been looking at working conditions. No infringements have been reported here either. The Inspection SZW indicates that many measures have been taken to prevent contamination following previous inspections. The NVWA, who as an employer is responsible for the safety of the NVWA employees and the official assistants of KDS, has informed me that I am fully aware of the number of organisations involved in this process that they are taking action if their safety is at stake. They informed me that in this situation there was no reason for the NVWA to stop the service during the slaughter process. The employees of the NVWA have so far not been infected. In doing so, I hope to have given a full picture of the whole situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u383	I've got a slightly different picture. The minister says the SZW inspection hasn't seen any violations. But two weeks ago, on 8 March, the NVWA sent a letter to all slaughterhouses stating that the directives are not being complied with everywhere and that employees are sometimes at great risk of infection. Last week we saw that in one slaughterhouse I thought it was Vion Boxtel 32 infections have occurred. The minister says that a lot of infections took place in the private sphere. But a whistleblower approached us yesterday. I quote from the e-mail that we received, it's about a large slaughterhouse: "Month caps are underneath the chin, even with executives. They run a crisscross past the employees. Veterinarians see it, stand up to the halchefs and say nothing. Measures are also being violated in the walkway and in the cafeteria." So these are contagion risks that do not fall within the private sphere. The measures are simply not being followed. The NVWA warns about that, too. The NVWA also writes: if this continues, we will perform from now on. But what has happened over the past few months? During the summer, we saw contamination at the slaughterhouses all the time. Why is the NVWA only performing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u384	I only got that letter in the first place. I took a look at what kind of letter it is. It is, to name but a few, a refresher in case the employees of NVWA cannot work under the right conditions. In this letter, the NVWA states that she will act. The SZW inspection appeals to the companies on working conditions. That's the division of roles between those two. In the direction of Mr Wassenberg, I say that this applies not only to abattoirs, but also to every employer and every workplace. I say this with my background in Social Affairs and Employment. If something happens on the work floor that isn't okay, you can always report it to the Inspection SZW. In fact, I'd advise you to do that. Or do it through the works council if you don't get out yourself. Of course, it is always so nice to first take the step to talk about it with the work itself, but if that is not possible, do it through the works council. I would strongly recommend this to everyone, because it is not okay if the corona rules are violated. We have discussions, in this debate and also in the run-up to this debate, on precautions to be taken in health care. I'm just saying, honestly, I'm getting really angry. If it's not okay, it needs to be reported and solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u385	I share that anger. You might see that in me. I get mad when I see this happening, too. But at the same time, the Minister says that the moment you see this kind of thing, you have to report it to the works council. But last year we saw that these workers, who are often in a vulnerable position, were forced in a number of cases by the employer, the slaughterhouse, to issue false statements. Then you can't tell them to come forward, can you? If the NVWA says "from now on we act" my question is what they have done in the past and if the Minister agrees with me that those workers in their very vulnerable position cannot just go to their supervisor for a moment, because they think they are losing their jobs. That's the problem with these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u386	The anger is with me in every situation where this happens in the workplace. I understand Mr Wassenberg's special attention to slaughterhouses very well, also in view of his political party's agenda. I'm fine with it, especially when those things come together, to keep an eye on that. But as for his point that the NVWA says in this letter "from now on": this is a refresher letter. The NVWA always has the various possibilities for enforcement. I would like to stress here that it is not for nothing that we have put together a common approach in the last few months and that the inspection of SZW controls very much. I can tell you that they know very well how to find out if people are being forced into something. At least I take the signals very seriously. I will also pass on this point, of course, as I always do from a debate. But I also think it is very important that people know that if they find abuses, they should really be able to report them and that that is safe at the time of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u387	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u388	Finally. The signals must be taken seriously, of course. Except we've been seeing these signals for so long. The Minister knows that we saw them last summer, when a lot of wrongdoing became known in the press about the situation in slaughterhouses. In that respect, you cannot trust the slaughterhouses on their beautiful blue eyes, because it goes wrong too often. That is why I ask the Minister not only to take the signals seriously, but simply to intervene. Because it has gone wrong too often, it continues to go wrong too often and I will see the new fireplaces again. In fact, they're starting to happen right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u389	You made your point, Mr. Wassenberg. "That was the intention," I hear you say. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u390	I'm gonna go a little wider, because when it comes to slaughterhouses, there's this coordinated approach. I am also a realist in this respect; let me put it this way. I realise very well that there are a lot of employers who really do the best they can to provide people with good protection, but that this is just not the case everywhere. If you work with an employer, in any sector, where it's no good: please ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u391	Okay, thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I suppose there's a need for that? I see that's the case. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Now there can be nothing, but it's nice that the cabinet wants to do something faster if it can. Let me now turn to the start-up arrangements. The Prime Minister spoke about the consent to come from Europe. We agree with that. But we know that there is nothing in Brussels to be approved. So the question is whether priority can be given to an arrangement which can be sent to Brussels. Finally, one motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet, with relevant sectors, security regions and municipalities, jointly organises testing for safe access to social life;]] [[noting that this is intended to allow people to obtain a test certificate enabling them to have temporary access to events and activities in the economy, culture and sport, for example;]] [[Considers that indoor sports, cinemas, theatres and business have developed constructive plans in which pilots with test certificates can be of added value;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the parties mentioned above, to launch a number of pilots at the beginning of April, in order to ensure the proper implementation of this type of testing, to gather broad insight;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber within two weeks of which pilots will be launched,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1066]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Four motions. The first one asks the government to use the one-prick strategy so that many people of vulnerable age can quickly get their shot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to adjust stock management so that the vaccines held in reserve are pricked away as soon as possible and the second shot is postponed for a few weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish curfews, open restaurants and shops and end all restrictions in the open air,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1067]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1068]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u394	If this motion doesn't make it, this second is best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the government to open the terraces at the Easter weekend,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1069]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u395	And finally, we all saw that the director or owner of the Keukenhof recently gave an interview in which he said: I find it incredible that everyone can walk in any park in the Netherlands, except ours; why is it closed? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil;]] [[calls on the government to open the Keukenhof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1070]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a motion on the air cleaners. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas technical innovations can contribute to combating the transfer of the coronavirus in indoor areas such as catering, SMEs and gyms;]] [[noting that research carried out by Eindhoven University of Technology has shown that with a combination of ventilation and air cleaning more than 85% of the air can be cleaned in indoor spaces, and that German research shows even higher percentages;]] [[noting that RIVM indicates that this effect has been calculated only with a calculation model and that it would be preferable to measure the combination of ventilation and air cleaning in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out practical research into whether and under what conditions technical innovations such as the use of air cleaners reduce the transmission of the coronavirus in indoor spaces, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1071]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u397	Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, in very hopeful anticipation of the Prime Minister's response to the undertaking that he would like to look again at the NOW regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u398	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. The motion that we held two weeks ago is going to be put to the vote again. And I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that contagions and the number of hospitalisations with covid are currently increasing;]] [[noting that recent British research shows that an initial injection already accounts for 80% of hospitalisations;]] [[Whereas other countries already have a strategy to postpone a second injection;]] [[Whereas the delay of a second injection may increase the risk of new virus variants;]] [[calls on the Government to request an urgent opinion from the Health Council on the postponement of a second injection in view of these developments, with explicit reference to the effect of reducing hospitalisations more quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1072]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u400	Finally, I would like to join in Mrs Kröger's question on vaccination of groups at risk. There's a lot of uncertainty as to exactly what's going on here. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has promised a letter. Perhaps I could ask Mrs Kröger when we could receive that letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u401	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u402	Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the curfew is a fundamental limitation and the cabinet previously swore that this measure, together with the limitations in higher education, would be the first to disappear;]] [[points out that the next relaxation of the corona measures covers at least the curfew and the opening of higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1073]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u403	Then a motion on the vaccinations of people at medical risk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that over 1 million 18- to 60-year-olds with a medical risk should be vaccinated with priority according to the Health Council, but that they should be vaccinated simultaneously with peers with no medical risk;]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of adults and children have been in home isolation for a year to avoid getting the covid virus due to increased medical risk;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with the Health Council Opinion and to give priority to all young people and adults at medical risk in the vaccination strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1074]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u404	Finally, I would like to ask a question about this. The minister said in his response: yes, but then there is a problem, because those people have to go to the GP and cannot be pricked at the GGD and then everything goes into the soup. If 85-plusers can go to a GGD street, then a lot of those million people with diabetes, asthma or other conditions can indeed be pricked by the GGD. Hence the question in the motion to settle it as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u405	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u406	Mr. Chairman. The inequality in the Netherlands was already very large and the corona crisis underlines that once again. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands there are socio-economic health inequalities which mean that people with practical training and low income live six years shorter on average than those with theoretical education and high income, and that they even live 15 years shorter in well-experienced health;]] [[noting that research shows that the group has 20% lowest incomes twice as high a risk of death by COVID-19 compared to the 20% highest income;]] [[Considering the need to take a large number of measures in the near future to address the impact of the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to design the measures taken to address the corona crisis in such a way as to contribute to reducing the socio-economic health disparities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1075]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u407	Mr. Chairman. As I said, we went to the ballot box on March 17 this year. On 17 March last year we clapped massively for our caregivers, but they still haven't had a structural wage increase. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan before the summer on how the adopted motion by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher on a plan for structural valuation for caregivers is being implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1076]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u408	Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is unfair for companies to pay dividends and bonuses if they receive wage support from the Dutch government;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to impose conditions for wage support in respect of the distribution of profits and bonuses by multinationals abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1077]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u409	Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the fact that quite a lot of our colleagues here in the Chamber with whom we have had these debates in recent years are going to say goodbye to the Chamber. There's a whole... Of course, you're gonna do all that next week. It was a special year for many people in the Netherlands and also for the people in the Chamber. As a colleague, I would like to thank them very much for their collegiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u410	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I did indeed chair the debate on the European summit, and there were three or four spokesmen who did not return. So it was also part about the goodbye. Thank you for referring to that. We're gonna say goodbye, so this isn't the last time. Then I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u411	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now it's really the last time here. During the debate I received an email from concerned parents from the middle of the country. They have two children in their early 20s with severe muscle disease, and as a result they also have severely reduced lung function. These people are very much concerned about the situation of their children. They have been in voluntary home isolation for a year and wonder: when are my children vaccinated? So I am very pleased with the promised letter. I hope that this letter will reassure these people so that they too can have a perspective and participate in society. Because that's what we really want. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for all the answers. I have one motion I'd like to file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the toolbox with current protective measures, such as 1.5 metres away, visitor restrictions and curfew, is increasingly difficult for many people to comply with and also has adverse physical and mental consequences;]] [[Considering that strengthening measures based on a healthy lifestyle and personal sense under the concept of "positive health" are a necessary and meaningful addition to the toolbox, which will reduce stress and increase the resistance of citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to pay explicit attention to strengthening measures related to people's personal resistance and healthy lifestyles in as many official communication moments as possible on the corona approach, giving examples of what people themselves can do to increase their resistance and strengthen resilience,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1078]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the catering industry has been closed since 14 October 2020 and the need for more perspective is high;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, when deciding on the reopening of the catering industry, the possibilities for both outside and inside for staged or partial reopening, if necessary by taking additional measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1079]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u413	And the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a high level of support for the basic rules, but insufficient compliance with them;]] [[Whereas (significant) better compliance with the basic rules makes it possible to reduce other heavier measures;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to promote compliance with the basic rules and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1080]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with the warm words that Mrs Ploumen has already said to the outgoing Members. I think it is also very special that these Members have been active until the last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u415	Well, unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u416	Even after the election date, little is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u417	Exactly. It's almost never happened before. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I actually forgot to give Mr Wassenberg the floor. No? Oh, then it's convenient. Okay. Then Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like you, I did not see Mr Wassenberg demonstrating immediately, so I thought he was okay with it. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the curfew will continue beyond 31 March;]] [[whereas the government had promised that this measure would be the first to be abolished, but that it would not always be complied with;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish curfew by 31 March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current lockdown will continue until early summer 2021;]] [[noting that clusters and infection transmission can be prevented through enhanced hygiene and infection prevention guidelines;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the catering industry, museums, cinemas, theatres and gyms can safely reopen, taking into account the corona measures and with the prevention of clusters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1081]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1082]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u419	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effect of curfew is modelled in conjunction with the visitor scheme;]] [[noting that in international literature the effect of a curfew on COVID-19 infections is not substantiated;]] [[noting that the infections persist, even after the curfew has been introduced;]] [[calls on the government to instruct OMT to include curfew as a separate parameter in the RIVM models to inform the Chamber and the citizen about the modelled effect of curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1083]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u420	I have eight seconds left to thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u421	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS. It's the last time for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u422	Mr. Chairman. I think that the conclusion of this debate is that at least we all have a unanimous desire to take those vaccinations seriously. I don't have a motion myself. I co-signed a motion by Mrs Van den Berg on ventilation and air cleaners. I think that may be a very important contribution. So it's very important that that's investigated, too. And we will definitely support Mrs Kröger's motion on medical risks. I'm glad she brought that up. Mr President, this was my last debate. It was an honor and a pleasure. I would like to thank everyone who contributed to that pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u423	It's mutual, Mrs. Sazias. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u424	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the curfew has been in force for two months and that the effect of curfew has not been demonstrated and is apparently absent;]] [[calls on the Government to end the curfew immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that HBO and universities are still closed;]] [[Whereas there has been no physical education for too long, leading to learning disadvantages and increasing psychological problems for students;]] [[calls on the government to allow full and physical education at HBO and universities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the hospitality sector is now closed for almost six months and the hospitality sector has sounded the alarm clock;]] [[Whereas the reopening of the terraces could save many catering operators;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the risk of contagion on terraces and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the hospitality sector is now closed for almost six months and the hospitality sector has sounded the alarm clock;]] [[Whereas the reopening of the terraces could save many catering operators;]] [[calls on the Government to open the terraces as of 1 April 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1084]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1085]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1086]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1087]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u425	The motion was co-tabled by Comrade Wilders. I can say that now, because... well, that's just between us. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a huge increase in the number of tests in children from 0 to 12 years of age;]] [[Whereas children from 0 to 12 years of age are not affected by corona but are affected or affected by testing;]] [[calls on the Government to stop testing children up to 12 years of age immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1088]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u426	Yeah, about the motion to investigate transmission on terraces. That was the second motion, I think. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u427	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u428	Who would do that research, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u429	Normally, I'd say RIVM should. Of course, we have often tabled motions to add many different areas of expertise to the OMT and to have other expertises examined at RIVM. It seems to me that you can have a specialist examine this. I asked that question, of course, and it was said that it was very difficult to investigate all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u430	It was a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u431	This is a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u432	This is not a short answer at all. I note that Mr Van Haga, like Mr Baudet, is questioning and mischievous about RIVM. They also indicated at some point that deaths are deliberately misregistered et cetera. So the question is simply very simple. Either we trust each other with the RIVM and then we ask them to conduct research, or we don't ask. Or we could ask others. My question to Mr Van Haga is therefore very simple: who should carry out this research?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u433	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u434	The point is that we believe that there are no infections outside and that there are hardly any infections on the terrace. However, half of the catering industry is going bankrupt and something needs to be done about it. That could be a huge relief. So there's got to be an investigation. Yes, if that's what you want to hear, please go through the RIVM. We assume that the result is that there are hardly any contaminations and that the terraces can simply open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u435	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u436	Mr President, thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the virus circulation of COVID-19 is high;]] [[noting that caregivers should be given the highest level of protection;]] [[noting that there are regular COVID-19 outbreaks within healthcare institutions;]] [[noting that negotiations on FFP2 as an option, despite discussions with the Minister, have not yet been given sufficient ground everywhere;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the directives on the use of nose masks in care so that FFP2 becomes the standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1089]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u437	Not my last time, because I'm leaving, but I'm coming back. But I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their excellent cooperation in recent years. I hope to see them again as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u438	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u439	This brings us to the end of the second term. Before I suspend the sitting, I would just like to point out that this is probably the last time I have asked the Chamber whether the motion is sufficiently supported. This provision of support has once become part of our Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of Frans Joseph van Thiel, a former chamber chairman. That was 1966. With the adoption of the proposals of the Van der Staaij working group for a general revision of the Rules of Procedure, this provision of support is now removed after 55 years. I have to get used to that incredibly. So this was the last time. I'd like to mention that for a moment. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes until 9:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u440	I will reopen the meeting and give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u441	Mr. Chairman. One more question about the NOW and then a few motions. That's a bit more nuanced indeed. But I'm gonna see if we can approach each other like hedgehogs. I mentioned earlier that last Monday in the letter the Minister for Social Affairs outlined the dilemmas surrounding the NOW: above all, the feeling of injustice that it may raise among employers. The UWV looks very carefully at those objections. The UWV has also been asked to be very accommodating with the payment period I also mentioned this and special attention has been asked for the occasional remuneration in January. Unfortunately, Generic solutions are not possible now, because the situation is so crude. It concerns so many companies, that the UWV does everything in its ability to act and decide according to the spirit of the arrangement. It says here: when Mrs van den Berg asks her questions, you could say the following. I see you already, so I'm gonna say that. We can't change the grant conditions during the ride. This can be detrimental to other companies. For most of the 60% of companies that have to repay subsidies, they have to pay back mainly because they had a less significant turnover loss than they had used. That also makes sense, because in the first weeks of the pandemic, of course, it was difficult to determine exactly. A smaller proportion of the companies had to repay the subsidy because they paid their staff less salary than the wage bill on which they received the advance. The subsidy is intended for the payment of wages. So if an employer has paid less salary, there will be no subsidy for that part of the wage bill. Given the wide variety in holdings and subsidies, it is not clear whether the first picture of the findings is a representative picture. We just don't know yet. The Minister for Social Affairs has therefore asked the UWV to determine very carefully whether there is room for manoeuvre in the event of objections and then comes the point that Mrs Van den Berg made earlier in order to meet the employer within the spirit of the scheme. That's the space I have now. If Mrs van den Berg would like more, I should ask that perhaps in the further debate, which is certainly going to take place in the troika, she should make that point even more. I'll pass that on to them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u442	Brief remarks, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u443	The Prime Minister was talking about hedgehogs, but I conclude that we are getting very little further here. Precisely that 60% of these companies have to pay back and you can take longer to pay it back, doesn't change the fact that you have to pay back a lot of money and that especially all those seasonal companies get into trouble. We will be happy to look into this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u444	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u445	I'm gonna pass that on, too, so we can see from our side what else we can do. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 1068 of the PVV: dissuade with reference to the debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1069: advise against referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1070 on opening the Keukenhof: dissuade. Unfortunately, there is no room for relaxation. It's not about that one park, that one cafe or that one restaurant. That's what I said. Of course, it wouldn't be fair to open the Keukenhof with all those other recreational institutions, so unfortunately my heart breaks off. Then the motion in part in part No. 1073. It speaks out from the Chamber and does not ask for a reaction from the cabinet. The motion in part No. 1075: dissuade. The measures in the approach are aimed at combating the virus. That's what we're looking at in an integral way. We are making a broad weighting, both social, social, economic and, of course, epidemiological. The measures are designed in such a way that they contribute to reducing... Sorry, if we had to set up the measures in such a way that they contribute to reducing the socio-economic health differences, that is really another goal. That is why the motion in part No. 1075 dissuade. The motion in part No. 1077 of the Labour Party: dissuade, referring to the debate. This could also be at the expense of jobs in the Netherlands. The motion in part No. 1079 of the SGP: Judgment of the Chamber. At the moment of consideration we consider all possible relaxations in the light of epidemiology and the broad social weighting. We also include the Dijkhoff motion, which talks about small steps in several sectors. Against that background, the motion is given in part No. 1079 Judgment Room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1080: Judgment of the Court of Justice with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1081: dissuade with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1082: dissuade. Depending on the epidemiological picture, we will do so in the coming period by means of various pilots, but the motion does not serve any further purpose in this respect. So the motion in part No. 1082 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 1084: advise against referring to the debate. Also for the motion in part No. 1085 and the motion in part No. 1086 applies: dissuade. It concerns the whole of the contact and travel movements and not just the risk of terraces. So there is no added value of the motion in part No. 1086, so it's not recommended. The motion in part No. 1087: advise against referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u446	Thank you. I now turn to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u447	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 1066: calls on the government to inform the Chamber in two weeks of which pilots can be started. I should like to leave it to the Court to decide on this, referring to what was said in the first place. Then the motion to part No. 1067 by Mr Wilders. This calls for the second injection to be postponed for a few weeks for everyone. We have discussed this in detail. I would advise against this motion by referring to what I said about it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u448	I have a very brief question about the first motion. A number of pilots are mentioned. I fully support and support this motion. Would the cabinet like to see if such pilots are possible for the churches as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u449	I have already received this request from Mr Segers. I was very excited about that and went to the churches with that enthusiastic idea, but the churches were not enthusiastic at all. I love it, but then there must be churches that put their finger on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u450	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u451	Surprising answer. I've received other signals. I think they're jumping for this. Let's go outside this meeting and see which of these are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u452	Okay, thank you. We still have a problem with the access test streets developed by business and then used for the churches. That's a wonderful figure, isn't it? Maybe we should try a small sleeve on that one. The separation between church and business, I don't think that's much of a doctrine, but still, we need to take a look at that. The motion in part No. 1072 calls on the government to request an urgent opinion again. We talked about that. I am very willing to do so, and I have already promised to do so. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1074: calls on the government to comply with the Health Council recommendation. Yes, that is a fairly striking reflection of how the policy really works. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, because I see that as a policy of support. The motion in part No. 1078 is a very long one and calls for explicit attention to strengthening measures regarding personal resistance and a healthy lifestyle. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Azarkan, I'd like to dissuade them. The RIVM has a model and supports the OMT with it. The design of that model is of an independent institution; that is not up to us. In doing so, RIVM makes the assessment of what is to be set up in the model and what is to be scientifically sustainable. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I also advise against 1088 because it calls for a stop to testing in children, whereas it gives us a lot more insight into the spread of the virus. So we certainly shouldn't stop doing that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u453	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One more question and three more motions. Mrs Van den Berg asked a question about the air cleaners. I have already indicated that I am about to commission a more fundamental investigation into this. There will be a motion for a resolution on this later. In addition, there is a subsidy scheme from OCW to promote the application of ventilation systems. The message I'm getting is that there are a lot of applications for the scheme. It is therefore in fact being used. If Mrs Van den Berg appreciates that, I will ask the education ministers to update in the next stand-of-business letter. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1071, on air cleaning, I give a ruling to the Chamber, but I would point out that air cleaning can never replace the basic measures. But research can certainly increase the understanding of the role of drops. I'm talking to RIVM about this. I'll inform the Chamber about that before the summer. The motion in part No. 1076, tabled by Mrs Marijnissen, on the structural valuation of caregivers, I do not recommend. The ESC has been asked to advise on working in healthcare, including the bottlenecks in working conditions. We expect that opinion before 1 April. Decisions are then for the next cabinet. Also the motion in part No. 1089, tabled by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, is not recommended by me. The government does not adopt the directives. That's what RIVM does for outside the hospital. These guidelines are translated into practical situations by the professions. The FMS does that for inside the hospital. But I have also indicated that the use of FFP2 has been well discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u455	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u456	We need 15 minutes to get the voting list in order. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
