ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is a two-minute debate on the informal EU Health Council of 12 October 2021. A written consultation took place prior to this two-minute debate. A number of Members have not taken part, but would like to take part in this short debate, which is Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kikken. Are you okay with that? Cheers, but it's a yes. Welcome to the Minister, not to mention. First of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall first read out the two large motions and then see if there is still time for an explanation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for Dutch people almost the whole world outside the European Union currently has an orange travel advice, partly based on travel restrictions related to the corona situation;]] [[Whereas these travel restrictions often do not apply to vaccinees and orange advice cannot always be justified;]] [[noting that countries such as Germany and Italy have more flexible travel advice for countries outside Europe;]] [[Whereas these negative travel advices are, among other things, an obstacle for entrepreneurs, for exchange students and for people with family outside Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to review the travel advice as a matter of urgency, taking into account the current corona situation;]] [[calls on the government at the EU Health Council to re-examine travel advice and to ensure that it is as uniform as possible for non-EU countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Medicines Agency gave its opinion on 4 October on the use of booster vaccinations in corona and recommends that it be the choice of individual Member States to whom they are administered;]] [[noting that vaccination policy is a national competence which makes differences between Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands among others;]] [[considers that it is undesirable and confusing if the policy on booster vaccinations varies widely between EU countries;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Health Council to coordinate as much as possible the policy on booster vaccinations, at least for the coming winter, so that EU residents are as protected as possible, remains able to travel and the policy on donation remains fairly distributed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-628]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. The motion on travel restrictions naturally results from the fact that the map of travel advice issued by Germany differs enormously from that of the Netherlands. With us, almost the whole world is still orange, while with Germany half the world isn't. This means, among other things, that universities and colleges of applied sciences do not allow students to go on exchanges. This could also have an impact for the next semester. About the booster vaccinations. We want to look first of all at our own Health Council, but also at ensuring that it does not go too far apart in Europe. That's why the government has to pay attention to that as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discussions are currently taking place on the possible establishment of a pandemic treaty;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for intellectual property rights to stand in the way of combating pandemics;]] [[Notes that the pandemic treaty should allow the temporary lifting of intellectual property rights on certain medicines and vaccinations;]] [[Notes that it is desirable that the pandemic treaty stimulates the sharing of knowledge and skills necessary for the production of vaccines and medicines by pharmaceutical companies;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this is included in the Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u6	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission has proposed the establishment of a Health Emergency Preparedness Authority (HERA);]] [[Whereas no debate has yet taken place on the establishment of HERA;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps in the decision-making process on HERA before discussing this with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u7	About the first motion. It is a speech-expression about suspending certain intellectual property rights. What is the purpose of Mr Hijink? We now see that many pharmaceutical companies, for example, have invested in an HIV vaccine that is promising, are looking for therapies and the use of mRNA vaccines to fight cancer. Those are of course things we like to see. Can his motion make it less attractive to make that kind of investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, because this controls the vaccines and the medications that are being developed to tackle corona or Covid-19. What we want is that patents, but also, for example, the blocking of knowledge and skills about how to make them, does not lead to even greater shortages of vaccines and medicines. That's what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u9	Okay, thank you. I call Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a global scarcity when it comes to accessing corona vaccines. It's also unevenly distributed. We can solve this by increasing production capacity and sharing much more knowledge. But patents block that. It is necessary to do much more, not only because we know that many countries have unequal access, but also because we are already talking about a booster while in many countries people are still not sufficiently protected. As the Minister has said on many occasions, this virus has no borders and we will only be protected if the rest of the world is protected. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that less than 4% of the inhabitants of low-income countries have had the opportunity to be vaccinated;]] [[Considering that the European Union, as one of the few political blocs, is still blocking a TRIPs waver and that other major powers are long gone;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts at EU level in the very short term to support the TRIPS Waiver on COOVID-19 technologies;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the commitment and (achieved) results shown before 1 November,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-31-632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I actually had a motion in preparation about the group of children between 5 and 11 years old who cannot be vaccinated now, but who are very vulnerable because of serious diseases. The parents are asking, can I please have my child stung? We know that there are investigations going on right now and the FDA has indicated that they are already ready. I am not going to table that motion, but I would like to ask the Minister what period we can expect an EEA opinion on. And if that EEA opinion comes up, can we act immediately? Or does a period pass before the implementation can take place? There's a need for haste. I understand that you want to weigh risks well, but wouldn't it be a subject that could be dealt with by the informal council later? How do other countries deal with off-label pricks, such as Germany? I shall explain it briefly and briefly, but I think the Minister is enough in the matter to understand exactly what question I am asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u12	Well, we'd better hope so. I'll suspend for a few moments. Then we're gonna listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mrs. Kuik, would you please sit down? I know you like Dutch music and singing, but we're going to listen to the minister first. This is not an invitation to the Minister to now...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u14	Hey, too bad, all spontaneity just gets smashed into the ground. Too bad! Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the motions, which I will follow one by one. First of all, the Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. 628 on travel advice. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. It is indeed very useful to review the travel advice. We have done so within the EU, but we have not yet done so for countries outside the EU. I would like to do that, and I am already working on it with the Foreign Minister. I believe that at the beginning of November, at the end of the first week of November, we could reach a revised decision. However, I would like to mention that you cannot go all the way towards European harmonisation, because the phenomenon of "travel advice" is quite a Dutch phenomenon. For example, Germany does not provide travel advice for outgoing travellers, but does provide quarantine advice and test advice for incoming travellers from non-Schengen countries. But they don't give advice to outgoing travellers. This means that you cannot compare all countries with the Netherlands. Nevertheless, given the degree of vaccination, we also consider it logical to come up with a new way of giving travel advice. We like to work on that. Once again, I expect to be able to take the decision on this at the end of the first week of November. Then the Paternotte motion in part No. 629...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u15	Don't be distracted by Mrs. Chicken. Please continue with the motion in part No. 629.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u16	I've never seen Mrs. Kuik respond to an answer that enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u17	She's just in a really good mood today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u18	But maybe it wasn't about that either. Of course it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u19	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u20	Besides, I was quite excited myself, so I agree with that. The Paternotte motion in part No. 629 is about booster vaccination. First of all, I would like to underline what is stated in the second observation, namely that booster vaccination, and even vaccination, is a national competence. After all, you give boosters in a national context: how is the economy going and what is actually the percentage of people who are actually protected? We have chosen to ask the Health Council if we see a decreasing immunity that justifies or legitimizes that you should already opt for a booster vaccination for a part of the group. The answer to that question has been quite clear, namely no. At the moment, we do not see any decreasing protection for what vaccines should protect against, namely hospitalisation. Even among the oldest groups we see no decreasing protection, which is actually very good news. I see that other countries are indeed making all kinds of announcements, in the sense that we are going to give the But if you zoom in very well on what is happening in those countries, then that is not strangely different from what is happening in the Netherlands, namely: only the immune compromised and therefore not the generic use of boosters. I have that international comparison made very precisely at the moment, because I think it is important that if we have a different policy than our fellow Member States in Europe, we can explain why we are doing it differently. For the moment, I am very convinced that the choice we are making at the moment, namely not to use vaccines if they are not necessary, is a very logical and very explanatory choice. In addition, this is about the booster side of a third shot, and not about a third shot for immunocompromised people. In the latter case, it makes sense. Then it's basically part of their primary protection. If the virus is still going around a little bit, and that's what it's going around at the moment, then you also naturally get a form of boostering, which also works very protectively and provides a booster along a natural path. In short, I do not know if it is really necessary in the short term, but we are ready if it is necessary. We are advised biweekly by the RIVM on whether there is anything to see of a decreasing protection, so that we can make that decision. For the moment, that is not the case. Do we want to achieve as much European harmonisation as possible? Yes. I agree with the operative part, but I would like to emphasise that ultimately it will always remain a national competence. On that line, I would like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u21	The motion in part No. 629 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yes. Then the motion-Hijink/Westerveld on part No. 630. It's about a pandemic treaty. As far as I am concerned, this is too pre-sorted for the need for such a pandemic treaty. Too much is also drawn to the conclusion that IP would currently be in the way of scaling up production. First of all, on the pandemic treaty. We will be Europe's Member States, but more importantly: as a global community, we need to be better prepared for the next pandemic than we were at the pandemic we are still in. I very much agree with that. At the G20, this has also led to a very intensive debate on what we can do to be better protected and also on what the Western world can do to ensure that other parts of the world will also be better protected. The form in which it is best to do so can be a treaty. This is being discussed, but I also know that many countries are not really waiting for such a treaty. So it may well be that a treaty is the slowest way to achieve results. If that's the case, I'd rather have a faster solution. One of the solutions discussed at the next G20 in Italy is a global fund with a scaffolding board that also deals with the use of that fund, in particular in those countries that cannot provide themselves with enhanced pandemic preparedness. Of course we can. We have also allocated extra money for this and many other countries have done so to us. In short, I am going to discourage this motion, but I think I am doing it from the same angle: of course we must work very hard to improve pandemic preparedness for the world population as a whole. And yes, the Western world has a very important task and responsibility to help the rest of it. But in this form, I'm dissuading the motion, because I really don't know if it should come to a tragedy. I think that's a slow way to do what we really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u23	It may be a good thing to say that I am not necessarily saying that such a treaty is ultimately the best solution, but that, when it comes to a treaty, we should include it in it. That is, of course, a bit of the motion for a resolution; not that the treaty must necessarily be put in place. I think the motion should be read more like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then I think we also have a dispute, because I would also like to look more closely at intellectual property. It is often said or stated that intellectual property prevents the scaling-up of production capacity; this is also the subject of a motion by GroenLinks, which I shall come back to later. I think this is a far too unfocused conclusion. I do believe that there should be a lot more production capacity and that sharing of technology can indeed contribute to this, but I do want to do so in such a way that we do not discourage pharmaceutical companies from investing in new medicines and vaccines. For that is, of course, what intellectual property is meant for: to protect the volume of investment. Just a few moments later, when governments decide that this can be suspended if they deem it necessary, the pharmaceutical industry will become more reluctant to invest in new vaccines. I don't want to. At the same time, I believe that more can be done in technology sharing. How we get there as best we can is really a more precise conversation than saying: we need to be able to suspend IP as public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u25	The motion in part No. 631.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u26	The motion in part No. 631 is about HERA. I very much share what Mr Hijink has to say here. So no, we're definitely not going to take irreversible steps. I think there is a piece of the Commission that will soon be covered by a BNC sheet. I assume that we will then have the debate on this, because that debate has actually not been sufficiently thorough. I share that very much with Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u27	So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The motion in part No. 632 I'm going to dissuade. That's not because I wouldn't agree that sharing technology can actually help in scaling up production, but because we're not immediately excited about the TRIPs waver as it's being proposed for nothing. In fact, we want to avoid any possible harmful effect. So we're not done with that. By the way, at the end of the first week of November, I would like to share with you the latest state of affairs: what are we on the other side of this and what have we done in the meantime? So I'd like to share that in the next progress letter. The last operative part is, of course, fine. The one-after-last operative part is a little too soon for me to jump to the conclusion that we should put our signature underneath. There's a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u29	The minister says "something too soon." We've been fighting the covid pandemic for about a year and a half. In that year and a half we still see that there is enormous inequality. Those who have the most money are the rich western countries.... have access to medicines, but now also to vaccines. Then I wonder why I now come to the Minister's conclusion that it is moving too fast, because this discussion is not new. We have had this discussion many times, even here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u30	Sure, but you heard me say a few things in that discussion. First of all, "get one, give one" is our commitment. If supplies just get through the way we're expecting, we're probably gonna give away even more vaccines this year than we're using for ourselves. We've already started that. We do this largely through COVAX. Why can we do that? Because we have a lot of vaccines. In doing so, we are simply helping the third world very directly through COVAX. Two. Through our way of purchasing, we have also made a lot of investments, pre-investments, in producing companies, so that they can scale up their own production capacity. That's the second thing we do. The third thing we do is to do everything in all possible international contexts to scale up production capacity. This is just one part of it and this is about sharing technologies and being able to suspend intellectual property. On that last point is precisely my hesitation, because I think that you should protect the investment volume of those companies in order to retain it. When we deal with this carelessly, this will lead to a reduction in the volume of investment. Intellectual property can work and you shouldn't be careless about that. Meanwhile, you must do everything in your power to ensure that the third world is provided with vaccines, and we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mrs Westerveld, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u32	Whether we do all that, I doubt it, if you assume that only 4% of people in lower income countries have access to vaccines; but well. When it comes to sharing intellectual property, of course we do not deal with it carelessly. Nobody does that around here. We have extensive discussions on this. My specific point is that, of course, this is only about COVID-19 technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u33	Very briefly, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yes. We've talked about that before. We'll just share the target. We are all on the same page on that point, but this means is not necessarily a useful means of achieving that goal. That's what it's about. That is why we are not yet enthusiastic about this means of achieving that goal. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to Germany, for example, with which we are very much united on this point. What we are talking about as well as providing vaccines to the Third World, I think that we are currently contributing more than our fair share and rightly so. That is right, because that is what we really should be expected to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u35	Okay. Mrs. Kuik had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u36	I hear Mrs. Chicken shouting that it has already been said. Yeah, I'm sure it's already in place. I thought, "Another question?" The question is, by the way, quite right. It's a very fair question. We know that there are parents who are very concerned about their very vulnerable child, for example a child who has just had a donor organ or has undergone severe oncological treatment. That's the kind of kids we're talking about. Mrs Kuik's question is what we could actually do to make it available to them as soon as possible, if they so wish, and ask their medical specialist to do so. First of all, it needs to be approved, preferably at EEA, because that is, of course, our own authority. Our information is that this will soon be put into procedure, but I do not know how long that procedure will last. That's the first piece of work we've got to do. The second thing we have to do is rationalise for which group this could be of added value. Because nobody wants this for all 0- to 12-year-olds or a very large group of 0- to 12-year-olds. It really has to be a very specific, very vulnerable group with severe immune disorders. We need to see how you can help them to participate in society as much as possible. That's what it's about. That question belongs, of course, with the Health Council. If Mrs Kuik would like to agree to that, I am going to put that question to the Health Council in that way. The Health Council will say that EEA has not yet approved it at all. That's true, too. EMA must therefore also go in that direction, but in the meantime we can put the question of whether it would be useful for some of the group to the Health Council. This probably requires a discussion of the Health Council with, for example, the Federation of Medical Specialists, with the Dutch Association of Pediatrics or with children's oncologists. So the question of whether it's necessary, I'd like to leave it there. And I will inform Mrs Kuik in what way we can deal with it at the next opportunity, and that will be the next progress letter at the end of the first week of November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr Paternotte, a short question, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a group that is quite specific. The minister calls children's oncological treatments, and there aren't many donor organs. And in fact, it is quite clear that for those who need protection, it is necessary to avoid complications. You say that, of course, we would like to wait for our own authority, the EEA, but not even an application has been made there, while the FDA is already busy with the assessment and so far we have always taken over the judgements of the Food and Drug Administration in Europe. Isn't there a possibility of looking at that and weighing that up, at least for that group of children who really would prefer to be eligible yesterday rather than today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, but in the right order. So first it's about answering the question: is it necessary? That is a question that we do not have to answer here; I am going to give it to the medical specialists through the Health Council. That is the first question. And if the answer to that question is "yes, it is necessary, for a small group of very vulnerable children," then of course it is: how do we get there as soon as possible? Well, I expect it to be brought into proceedings with EEA in the short term. If there's little difference, it's neat to wait for that. Most medical specialists also attach great importance to this, because we don't have EEA for nothing. Otherwise, we could shut down EEA and lean completely on the FDA. We do not; very consciously we have EEA. And if that's going to be a very long road, then you can actually start thinking about whether something for some of the children couldn't be done off-label. But that's a question for then. So let's get the question or question answered by the Health Council first. Meanwhile, that process is just happening at the FDA, and also at EEA, I expect. There's no doubt that those two things are coming together. And in what way that process might look like, I'd like to answer in that next progress letter. For example, we can also check the speed with which EEA continues this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u40	Okay. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-07-tweedekamer-9.u42	I shall suspend for half an hour, until 13.50 p.m., and then we shall vote on the motions concerning the Informal EU Health Council, which have therefore just been tabled, and the Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
