ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the relationship between central government and local authorities. I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the relationship between central and local authorities, and we are doing so because there is tension on that relationship. That tension as such is as old as the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a republic of united provinces. This First Chamber is actually a last relic of that, elected by the provinces. We have become a decentralised unitary state. It is already in all these terms: it has something to do with unity and multitude and that is never unproblematic. In the current situation, this tension actually manifests itself mainly in a very sad decentralisation, which has taken place in recent years or is likely to take place soon. Let me be clear right away: things are not going well there. It does not go well on the content, as can be seen in, for example, youth care. It doesn't go well in the finances either. More and more municipalities are ringing the bell and in any case a number of municipal councils usually do not unite very activist bodies under the title of Councils in Resistance. Then there's something wrong. The UNG has also determined its position in no uncertain terms. They say, "It can't go on like this anymore." Let's see what's going on and what we should do. As has already been said, government trade in important areas has been wholly or partly decentralised in recent years. This applies, for example, to public health care. That's quite a nice case when we start evaluating the whole corona policy. What exactly is the state of public health in this decentralised context? Has it flourished or has it become a bit of a vegetable? It is about housing for education, about parts of public transport, about nature policy and not least about the large and obvious decentralisations in the social domain: the Youth Act, the Participation Act and the Wmo. Last but not least, we are on the verge of once again a very large decentralisation: the Environment Act. Conversely, there is also centralisation, for example with the formation of the national police. But that is a small centralization on the whole. For this reason, my plea will be mainly about decentralisation, and above all about the municipalities. The provinces not entirely aside, but the tension manifests itself mainly between Rijk and municipalities. Is it just trouble and torment? No. Beautiful things happen. Beautiful things also happen in the local context. This is worth a big compliment to all those professionals who go against that for their vocation, but also a compliment to motivated representatives of the people, national, local and provincial, motivated administrators, motivated officials. Rowing with the belts they have and often sighing and supporting they all make the best of it. That is good and that is also the quality of the Dutch public sector. At the same time, it is clear that there is every reason to come up with better agreements and clear frameworks, so that this enormous commitment we see is paying off. Where does it crack and squeak? After all, there are plenty of good intentions. I would almost say that there may be too many good intentions. In the case of decentralisation, I have experienced them personally in my position as a municipality manager and as a working social area... a shared enthusiasm at the Empire, provinces, municipalities and social institutions that say: come here with those responsibilities; fine, we can do that much better and even cheaper. The Empire then makes a 25% discount, after which the field says "25% is too much, do only 10%," and then they reach 15%. Something like that. The Empire has also invented that good cooperation will yield efficiency gains, leading to a so-called scaling-up discount on the Gemeentefonds. Then you actually see that, on the basis of shared enthusiasm, an area of policy is transferred to a co-government, actually simply with insufficient resources or with wishful thinking about that it will all be better and cheaper by itself. I shall come back to that in a little more detail later. Where are the problems? The first problem is whether each municipality is actually able to carry out all these decentralised tasks. Is the sum of decentralisation, of which I have just mentioned a number, not too much recourse to the organisational and administrative capacity of municipalities? My second question: how do we deal with it when municipalities come to different choices in similar situations? Can we have that, or can we actually not have that? The question lies behind this: what do we think should be guaranteed uniform in this country? What do we think is the role of the central government in this? What exactly is this system responsibility? What exactly is the role of the Minister of the Interior in this? Those questions are the order of the day and, again, they are overshadowed by questions of a financial nature. If we get this all together, we will come to three sets of questions that I would like to ask the Minister. The first set is about the structure, the municipal scale et cetera, the second set is about the finances and the third set is more of a general-administrative nature. Let's start with the structure. The way we decentralize is one-size-fits-all. We still have a large number of municipalities, 350 or 300, I don't know exactly how many municipalities from Appingedam to Amsterdam, and all these municipalities are getting the overall task set. Moreover, all these municipalities are also assigned the whole range of tasks, so that youth care is the whole range of youth care. You can see that it is particularly small municipalities that suffer from the accumulated weight of all the tasks they have been given. Not because they don't want to, but simply because they're too small to be able to do that whole task at a good level. I work in daily life as a director of a housing corporation that works a lot for municipalities. Our corporation works mainly for smaller municipalities. I see how people struggle at city halls. They want this Wmo, the Youth Act, the debt relief, the integration, and later the Environment Act. They've got 100 people running around town hall who have to do all that, besides what they're all supposed to do. How do you solve that? That is difficult, and we are not good at that in the Netherlands. I'm sketching three possibilities. The first is large-scale municipal reclassification. Actually, this was chosen in 2012 in the Rutte II coalition agreement. It was said: ladies and gentlemen, we are going to decentralise, and that can only be done if the municipalities are large enough, so we are going to scale up the municipalities to at least 100,000 inhabitants. They also said that we are going to merge a few provinces, because otherwise there is no point. That wasn't there, but those two poles were there. I went to Denmark a few years ago to see how they did it there. That's how they did it. They first went to municipalities of 100,000 inhabitants and then decentralised the social domain and youth care. We're not that steadfast. We're decentralised, but we've abandoned that municipal re-casting ambition. Is this where I insist on reorganising the city? No, I'm not. I know how sensitive that is in society and in all political parties, including ours. There are good arguments for: administrative and organisational capacity. But an argument against it is: aren't governments going to be too far away from the population? Don't we get any more alienation? Doesn't that mean people are losing it anymore? You can come up with all kinds of things for that, but it's a tension. I am merely saying at the moment that this is a possible way of resolving the problem of increasing the administrative capacity of municipalities. A second solution, which is often chosen in practice, is regional cooperation. The way I see it, even though that is of course only a partial observation, it works fairly well in the administrative sense. Drivers can lose their eggs and come to something. All in all, this is how it works. Think of the Regional Energy Strategies et cetera. At the end of the day, they come to something. You unite capacity and power of thought, and you align policies with each other. But there is also an incredible flaw: democratic control. In fact, those administrators are there doing things with each other again, they do that quite well in my opinion, but then the municipal councils are on the last mem. They say, "Are we going to talk about that too?" Yeah, you're formally going over it, but you're not really going over it anymore. In fact, it's been decided a long time and there's no turning back. The security regions are also a good example of this. They function well, but actually the city councils are nowhere anymore. This leads to alienation, the withdrawal of motivated representatives of the people and a democratic deficit. That can't be the point, can it? Moreover, these intergovernmental partnerships on a regional scale are a huge patchwork. There are countless and each region is just something different from the other. How do you deal with that? That is my question to the Minister. How does she look at that? What are we supposed to do with that? Should we get that more uniform? Do you get some kind of fixed regional scales? And how does that relate to the province? If you want to control it democratically, do you still get three layers under the government, namely the municipality, the region and the province? Or do you have to choose and remove one of those layers? That's a set of questions that goes with regional development. A third way is not to think in terms of one-size-fits-all, but in terms of difference and differentiation. Could you also say: we do want to decentralise, but we only decentralize to the large municipalities? Just like it used to be with the center municipalities. The social care and the women's shelter were decentralised to the center municipalities and they had to figure it out with the region. There are still some democratic hooks and eyes to that, but I would like to quote it here because you will distinguish what you are decentralising from who. Somewhere in those three solutions something has to be found. I told you, my analysis isn't original. It's already been put on the table by countless people. We are not very good at committing actions, but we do not think that this is an option either. My question to the Minister concerns in particular her thoughts on the second and third scenarios. I am referring to uniform regions around a city and within it a differentiation of tasks that you assign to the city and the smaller municipalities. Would that be a possible option? The way I read it last night, that's about what the G40 is advocating. It is also a recognizable plea from the time of major city policy. In this way, the cities are the trigger of the region. They can handle it. If they do that right with the ommeland and you get to 25, 30 or 40 regions in the Netherlands in that way, wouldn't that be a solution? I'd like to hear the Minister's thoughts on this. Mr. Chairman. A second set of questions is about finance. Roughly said: as I have just positioned, the municipalities experience more every year that they lack the resources to carry out the tasks they are committed to. They said yes to that once. Or, at least, there has been a decentralisation agreement and I do not really know whether they have said yes to it. They say, "That's how we're going down." You can also see one city budget going down after another. Of course, you can say "they should pay more attention," but this phenomenon is too general and too big to be dealt with with with "then these municipalities should be doing a little bit economical." That leads to a bald blow. That may be in the social domain itself.................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is all being greatly cut back in order to bring the municipal budget into balance, and even then it does not work. That's a real problem we can't see past. Now I'm not a lawyer, but of course I've also prepared myself and I see in all kinds of pieces references to the Municipal Law, Article 108 (3). I read in that article that you can carry out tasks with the municipalities, but that it is then the responsibility of the Empire to provide sufficient resources. That seems pretty clear, to be honest. How does the Minister read Article 108 (3) of the Gemeentewet against the background of the current discussion about municipal budgets that are falling apart and the sounds that the Association of Dutch Municipalities in particular shows about this? My second comment on finance is on multiannual financial security. The municipalities were financed by the Municipal Fund in a step-by-step manner. This means that if the Empire spends less, the municipalities get less and if the Empire spends more, the municipalities also get more. This means that there are annual and also within the year fluctuations. The question is whether you should not go to a system that is more stable, so that as a decentralised government for about five years you know what comes of the Empire. Finally, a question about the municipal and provincial tax area. You can say: let the municipality enlarge it and let the province expand its tax territory and then they can just say democratically "we want to do this and that costs so much." How does the Minister view that? What would that mean for the state taxes, by the way? Should you normalize that? Is this a passable road at all or is the burden of the national savings still being placed on the citizens via a back door? The question is whether that is the intention. The final question about finances is about arbitration. You can see it's getting quite a bit up right now. In the youth care sector, there is a single arbitration body. The Public Administration Council is in favour of independent arbitration, and that seems to us to be a wise plea. What is the Minister's position on the suggestion that an independent arbitration body should be set up in order to prevent administrations from flying each other in their hair and expressing their criticism through the media because they do not have a platform? We have to make sure we have a proper way of doing that. If they do not come out, there is the arbitration body that gives a binding opinion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions of a general administrative nature. One is about the special responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for intergovernmental relations, but at the same time, to put it simply, has no flute to say about a large part of the decentralisations, unless they are more or less coincidentally in its portfolio, such as the Environment Act. The Council of State calls for a stronger position of the Minister of the Interior, including through a right of co-signatory of laws affecting local and provincial public administration. I'd like to take over that plea. I'd also like to hear from the Minister how she feels about that. A second question is a question about the whole legal framework. Did we actually get a good look at it? The State Committee-Remkes says: let's get what's scattered everywhere together just neatly in a law; the municipality also works on the decentral government law. That seems to us to be a good suggestion to give more clarity and solidity. That is why we are asking how the Minister views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	I have one question. I hear a lot of GroenLinks' reflections here that we could redeploy but not do it. We could go for a city center. In fact, I hear questions from the Minister: how do you feel about that? Raise taxes for municipalities, yes or no? Your foreman in the House of Representatives openly makes love to the formation and sit at the table there. What is GroenLinks' top priority in an improved relationship between central and decentralised government? What's your spearhead? 'Cause you might be negotiating later. What's the main bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	Our spearheads are in our election program. One is more money for local authorities, more money for youth care. So this is about the concrete dilemmas that are now being discussed. In the First Chamber debate, which I do not want to turn into a Second Chamber debate, I try to see what underlying mechanisms are and how we could also better arrange the underlying mechanisms to prevent us from constantly getting into that kind of breathlessness. But in the specific situation, I am thinking more of the House of Representatives and the negotiators. It is then largely about more money, more freedoms, more responsibilities in the public sector, and more room for the municipality to work in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. The study group on Intergovernmental and Financial Relations had a wonderful plea for working as one government and task-oriented work. Those are words that are just gonna lead their own lives. I'd like to make those words mine, too. Of course, we can think from the societal point of view by working as one government. My plea is to be able to do so. Then the foundation must be right. The foundation includes a clear division of responsibilities and powers, adequate funding, a good understanding of how to deal with disputes and the provision of co-governments for the task to which you call them. If we do that right, that seems to me to be the basis for working as one government at a time. I'd like to hear the Minister's reaction. Depending on these reactions, I am considering submitting a motion in the second term which calls for a little response to Mr Van der Linden's formation of the Cabinet to be able to deal with these matters in a fundamental manner, so that we do not get into respiratory distress every year. But whether I do so, of course, also depends a little on the support for it and the answers given by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Let me get right to the point. In this debate on the relationship between the central government and the local authorities, the PVV focuses on the position of the parliament and, in particular, on the framework and control role of the various representatives of the people. Whatever the way in which the system is set up of tasks and financing structures, democratic control and control is crucial in all cases. At the moment, it is quite inadequate. What we see at national level about the premium affair, the incomplete and incorrect information of representatives of the people and a structural lack of transparency is a problem that arises at all levels of government. With the many administrative consultative tables and agreements, it has only got worse in recent years. The Council of State's report also notes this, but somewhat disguised as a "vulnerability in democratic decision-making procedures," especially in the 30 energy regions and so-called deals, such as the City Deals. That's not vulnerability, it's just an undemocratic back room kongsi. Of all these kinds of consultation tables and clubs, no reports are usually deliberately recorded. When people's representatives, journalists or citizens ask for reports, they are non-existent, and if they are already there, they are treated as "personal policy concepts" under the guise of the Ruttedoctrine. That makes democratic and public control impossible. As an example, I would like to mention the reports of the Climate Change Council. Despite an approved motion from this Chamber to make all the reports public, this cabinet still refuses to extract some of the reports under the black painter and is still not clear what input has been provided by which organization. The cabinet simply ignores Article 68 of the Constitution and refuses to inform Members of Parliament fully on request. At a decentralised level, for example, members of the State who request documents about such consultation tables can also whistle for this information. In short, can the Minister indicate what it is going to do to improve information from the public authorities and transparency in a structural way? In future, can people's representatives get all the documents they need to carry out their control tasks effectively? And are proper reports and, preferably, tape recordings now being made at consultation tables and similar bodies, in order to ensure the control possibilities? I'd like a response from the Minister. It is also typical that the report of the Council of State does deal with the role of domes such as the IPO and the VNG, the Interprovincial Consultation and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, but hardly or not with the role of the parliament. The administrative consultation through these domes has priority over the city council members or the members of the State. Let us not forget that Article 125 of the Constitution is clear. The Council and the States are the highest body at their level, whereas in the umbrella organisations only the colleges are represented in principle, often in a very indirect way or only at the general assembly. Thus, by giving these domes an ever-increasing role, democratic control is being further undermined. For example, climate tables and the Inter-Governmental Programme IBP have a strong role to play here. For example, as council member of Den Bosch, I was told that the municipal control on the IBP runs mainly through the track of the G40 municipalities. Then, as a council, you are very far away, while the IBP regulates very far-reaching matters, such as the natural gas-free neighbourhoods and the regional asylum shelters, so-called "social tasks," which are mainly imposed on society. Last year, a two-year study of IBP among different governments showed that co-governments felt attacked by the cabinet's ambitions for the IBP. There was no common approach. It was mostly called "the Hague party" and it was literally called "a Hague party," one-sidedly from the cabinet and the coalition agreement. In response to written questions I asked the Minister on this matter, there was a rather evasive answer. Basically, the Minister did not actually have a message to this study and it would only be taken into account in a broad evaluation. However, the fact remains that the IBP is mainly a wish list from the cabinet for drooping ambitions such as natural gas-free neighborhoods, housing the asylum mass immigration and the nitrogen knot where co-governments are dragged into the hair. There is no question of steering and setting up from councils, states or parliament within the IBP. The Ministry dictates the program and the leaders of the co-governments bow good, in exchange for sweeteners like the regional deals. There is also a lack of effective control on this. Unless people's representatives ask about these dossiers on their own initiative, information is not or hardly shared. Sharing is at most only at a stage where all administrative arrangements have already been concluded and the administrative apparatus is already in execution mode and everything is packed in an administrative envelope. Within the IBP, deals are made, for example for the envelope nature and water quality, and then drivers are allowed to mess about so-called "indicative allocations" of tens of millions for peat meadow areas, for example. In doing so, the Cabinet determines which part is provided for this under the Climate Agreement. With these lubricants, drivers of co-governments will naturally be in line with the Climate Agreement, so as not to run the risk of losing that indicative allocation. Let me be clear: people's representatives are not included in this and sometimes even have to submit Wob requests in order to gain some insight into this, because this is only partially made public because of "personal policy views" and "internal reflection." In short, can the Minister indicate whether she is prepared to give the people's representatives a better, steering, frameworking and controlling role around the IBP, or even better to move completely away from this intergovernmental rear chamber? Between the central and local authorities, more and more gremia have emerged with sometimes far-reaching influence, for example the Security Council of Mayor Bruls. Mayors are considered to be controlled by the Municipal Councils, but there is no effective control here because they participate on behalf of the Security Region. Can the Minister indicate how she sees the democratic control of this gremium and how to prevent people's representatives from checking it out? The same applies to the Regional Energy Strategy. Demands are laid down from the Empire, but municipalities hardly get room to deviate from them themselves. Everything is in a trap of achieving goals. Can the Minister indicate what remains of local autonomy as a result? And why, if necessary, should the energy supply be generated in a decentralised way, which has been centralized in an effective way for over a century? Why is it that every town or town or town or town has to do with this? Let the region itself reinvent the wheel? Then there are the suggestions made by the Council of State. They don't make fools of themselves either. More municipal scaling and thus more reclassifications. Can the Minister provide any shred of evidence that this scale increase is effective? For the time being, that doesn't make any sense. Large municipalities also face serious implementation problems, and large municipalities often have a large financial gap in their hands. In addition, larger municipalities, for example, need to purchase youth care in a regional context. Then you're stuck with regional agreements and with municipal councils, who can't or hardly steer on this. Can the Minister indicate how she intends to improve the framework role of the Councils? In fact, scaling up does not solve it in any way. Also the suggestion to increase the municipal tax area is to put the horse behind the cart. This will only create a build-up of burdens for our citizens to maintain municipal left-wing hobbies. Let's start by cutting down on elitist cultural clubs, subsidies and climate dwarfs. The necessary diversity officials can also be missed in many municipalities. Finally, Mr President. The Empire is now imposing regional asylum facilities on municipalities. In Oegstgeest we recently saw the inconvenience of the local CDA group, who nevertheless found it problematic to let these asylum seekers walk through a residential area. This inconvenience threatens with this cabinet in many more places. As far as the PVV is concerned, we are closing the border for this mass asylum migration and providing shelter in a regional asylum facility in their own region and not in our country. And then all the rentals that are given away to status holders. There is a completely uneven relationship between the central and the decentralised government. Municipalities should not be forced to give away houses, but should house their own inhabitants well. Can the Minister indicate whether there can finally be an end to this scandalous disadvantage of local residents vis-à-vis asylum migrants? Can it promise that local representatives can also take care of the interests of their citizens rather than the "social tasks" imposed by the Ministry? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	I actually only have a short and simple question. We have heard this critical analysis by Mr Van Hattem, but I wonder if Mr Van Hattem also has constructive directions for resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	There are a lot of solutions to be found and I have identified a lot of areas, so I do not know what specific aspect Mr Van der Voort is referring to. But the essence of my speech, as I said at the beginning, is that people's representatives should be better placed. Where information is now being withheld or not provided, much better information must be provided to the representatives of the people. And what is also very essential is that the framework and steering role of the parliament should be better defined. Now it is true that in many of these agreements, for example, the municipal councils and provincial states are not or are hardly involved, because it is all about implementation, which they are not really about. There's gotta be another way. There must simply be a much more active role for the people's representatives, so that the democratic content of public administration is increased, both centrally and decentrally. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a policy debate with each other and with the Minister for the Interior on the relationship between central government and local authorities. Good idea, says someone who received broad support from this Chamber nine years ago for a motion in which the predecessor of this Minister of the Interior, another Minister of the Interior in another government, was called upon to come up with a comprehensive vision on the modernisation of the administrative organisation of the Netherlands. However, the then government of VVD and Party of Labour never came up with this, apart from the essay that Minister Plasterk wrote in the end, but which was judged by this Chamber by motion as below measure and never appeared again afterwards. The next government, again led by Prime Minister Rutte, but now without the Labour Party, did not return to Minister Plasterk's fired-off plans in its coalition agreement, but focused mainly on further scaling up by means of municipal reclassification and all kinds of deals between the municipalities through regional groupings. Mr. Chairman. Now that the Netherlands is awaiting another new cabinet, we as First Chamber receive a fire letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities. It tells us that structural deficits, particularly in the social domain, and imbalances in inter-administrative relations are hindering the solution of problems. A broadly supported UNG resolution calls for the restoration of administrative and financial trust. That resolution contains agreements which the government intends to make with the new cabinet. At the heart of the resolution is the principle that the financial position of the municipalities must be in order before agreements can be reached with a new cabinet on the involvement of municipalities in the ambitions of the new cabinet. In order to avoid the current problems in the future, administrative relations need to be reviewed, as we have heard from local authorities. Although, of course, the municipalities want to talk to the new cabinet and to those working on its preparation, it is not surprising that they want to involve us as a chamber of reflection. As has been said, there is still the strong desire of this Chamber to have an integrated vision of the modernisation of the administrative organisation of the Netherlands. That's what we wanted, and that's what we still want, I assume. This has nothing to do with the awareness that the current administrative organisation is inadequate, which creates and continues to create problems that cannot be satisfactorily resolved. From the VNG side, the main focus is on the administrative problems, and they are indeed not small, if you read that Professor Elzinga, once a driver of the dualisation of local government, now believes that the decentralised policy has been taken out of control and that many municipalities will have to be pulled out of actual bankruptcy by a new cabinet. In the State of the Government 2020, which the Minister has offered us, you can read its figures: out of the 351 municipalities we still count, 139 already have a financial deficit and the remaining 212 are struggling. The financial anorexia suffered by the Dutch municipalities translates into an increased suffering of the inhabitants of those municipalities. In the words of Professor Elzinga: on a broad front there is a sharp rise in local burdens and a deterioration of facilities. Mr. Chairman. It is clear from all of this that there is a strong link between the ill-thought-out, immeasurable and insufficient financial support on the fence of municipalities throwing tasks that were, until relatively recently, part of the tasks of the government. When Minister Plasterk was asked to come up with an integrated vision on the modernisation of the administrative organisation of the Netherlands, all this had to do with Rutte II's firm intention to proceed to the largest decentralisation operation in the post-war history of the Netherlands, as it was called at the time. Health, youth and work were placed on the board of the Dutch municipalities for the most part in an extremely tight period, coupled with a drastic cut in the municipal budget. The decentralisation operation was in everything an ideological choice, with facts less important than the formula that the Empire should do less and the municipalities more, because all these transferred tasks could certainly be done better and cheaper. Doing more for less money, what a slogan. The Empire counted itself rich and thus plunged the municipalities and their citizens into growing poverty. In the meantime, the Minister recognizes that as well. In her letter to the Lower House of 15 April 2021, she reports that research shows that the financial position of municipalities is worrying. There are rising costs in the social domain and shortages in municipal operation. The Minister understands that the municipalities will have to make every effort to solve their problems. Because they are financially stuck, the municipalities have started to invest less, they have increased the IZB rate and have invested on their reserves. In addition, investment in new policies is being pushed forward. Municipalities cut down on their own organisation and implementation, which creates a great deal of pressure on the performance of tasks by municipalities. The deficits lead to an erosion of the financial position of the municipalities. There is also a resulting deterioration of the level of provision and a displacement of expenditure, particularly in the physical domain. How, I ask, does the Minister assess her own policy over the past few years as this is the sobering facts, even in her own opinion. Despite all the good intentions and some recent financial corrections, has the Minister, despite the fact that it is responsible for the internal affairs, dropped on balance? If not, how does it explain this imbalance, which is also a matter for the provincial authorities in the municipalities, in view of their findings that municipalities are structurally affected within their budgets and that there are serious concerns about the future level of provision in the municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Now we're in big trouble. While the new government will have to ensure that many more homes will be built, the energy transition will take place and all kinds of climate measures will be implemented, with the help of local authorities, the Dutch municipalities say that they do not want to participate if their financial problems are not resolved first, due to an earlier hasty and overstretched appeal to them. The Netherlands is still waiting for a thoughtful modernisation of the administrative organisation, especially now that there is so much work for the government to get our country back in balance. A new blueprint of what is called Thorbecke's house, but what has actually become a rather wretched structure of responsibilities and powers, according to both the Minister of the Interior and the Council of State, is currently unfeasible and therefore undesirable. Let's row with the belts we have, so it sounds pretty despondent from that direction, nine years after this Chamber addressed the problem. Good work does take time, but this story doesn't get anywhere. Perhaps, now that the State Committee on Parliamentary System has carried out its work at the request of this Chamber and it is now up to us to ensure that the decentralised unitary state is still able to do what society demands within the framework of representative democracy, where responsibilities and powers are placed where they best fit locally where it can, regionally and nationally where it should, and internationally as the nature and extent of the problem that require a new state committee to look into it. Mr. Chairman. My party may well be called a dissident when it comes to the relationship between central government and local authorities. When, from the 1980s onwards, the political majority chose to privatise or self-destruct public tasks on a large scale, which had a significant impact, particularly at local level, on the ability of municipal councils and municipal authorities to provide guidance to society, my party pointed to the potential for lasting damage that the reduction of the public domain could cause to society. When, in the 1990s, the political majority opted for a far-reaching consolidation of government at all levels, my party warned that efficiency would not always prevail over democratic involvement and that cheap could now be expensive. When local politics, in line with the government's concern to e.g. the Netherlands, was confronted by a shift of political power from the municipal councils to the municipal authorities and the local politics was greatly depoliticized and technocratized, my party, against the current, suggested that the city council should remain the real boss in the municipality in order to keep local democracy alive. When municipal reclassifications were forced from above to strengthen the power of municipalities, my party pointed out that this could be at the expense of citizens' confidence in local democracy and that it would not always prove to be a guarantee for better. When Rutte II opted for the biggest decentralisation operation ever, my party called that operation ill-thought-out, immeasurable and insufficiently resourced. My party has also shown little enthusiasm about the seemingly unstoppable advance of regional cooperation, which is compulsory, semi-compulsory or voluntary, which seems necessary because the municipalities cannot handle all kinds of tasks on their own but which generally lack a democratic embedding. On this point, I feel akin to René Cuperus' statement in the Annex to the State of Management 2020, namely that regionalisation is the coup of the executive technocracy at the expense of the multiple inertia of local democracy. By the way, what does the Minister think of this observation? Mr. Chairman. All these operations supported by political majorities have gradually distorted democracy in our country and the effectiveness of the administration has not really increased. This is now widely recognised, and that is good news. This debate can help to take a more critical look at the choices made and, where necessary, consider a radical change of direction. This can be done with small steps, such as rejecting the initiative legislative proposal on the Presidency of municipal council committees which is still under discussion here, and with greater steps, by not agreeing to the new budget later this year, in which municipalities are not sufficiently compensated for the work they are required to do, and in particular by consulting local parliaments on a review of dualism, which is now in force for some twenty years. Mr. Chairman. When I was elected to the city council of Tilburg, I found that a great honor and a great responsibility. I felt it mattered to be a local representative. When I waved off after seventeen years, that was indeed a long time ago, so I say to Mr Rombouts...................................................................................................................................................... It wasn't supposed to benefit. According to the State of the Government 2020 presented to us by the Minister, there is now a disbalance between local representatives and local municipal leaders. In that the council members have the weakest position. Although council members, as the State of the Board says, are formally the head of the municipality, the balance of power actually falls out in favour of the municipal administration. The undermining of the local parliament and representatives of the people makes it much more difficult to find sufficiently good and driven citizens who want to do the job. Mr. Chairman. This is a good time to take the hat off for all those who are still doing their best today as a local representative. I think it is our expensive duty and the duty of the forthcoming government to do everything in its power to increase the power of the city council and thereby increase the chances of elected council members to actually be elected representatives of the people. Only strong municipal councils can deal with strong municipalities and other strong governments. That will be necessary if we are to take up well the much work that lies ahead and which is coming towards us. I look forward with interest to the Minister's response and, of course, to the input of the other groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation is bad with local democratic politics. While much is rightly being said at national level about an over-governmental attitude, which has demonstrated the need for a well-informed parliament and for power and counterpower, the situation at decentralised level has been a concern for much longer. For example, the government agreement of the present outgoing cabinet stated that democratic control by municipal councils was remote due to increasing regionalisation and that political accountability for municipal cooperation had to be improved. In addition, there are other concerns. On 11 March, the Council for the Public Administration published the report Rust-Reinheid-Regelmaat. According to the ROB, there is also a risk of erosion of the position of the decentralised administration within the public administration. The report flies on the subject from the point of view of financial relations. They are also central to the VNG position paper and the last letter from the IPO, which we received yesterday. We have known for a long time that local government is under financial pressure. The dramatic financial consequences of the various decentralisations, particularly those in the social domain, have led, among other things, to the Action Committee Councils in Resistance, as Mr Van Gurp mentioned, which organised a conference on local authorities in need on 26 March. Council members from around 100 municipalities voted massively in favour of a resolution calling on the cabinet to provide the municipalities with additional financial resources through the Municipal Fund for this year and next year. For the acute problems in youth care, more than 600 million incidental funds have been made available by State Secretary Blokhuis for 2021. The need is indeed high. Hopefully, the negotiations during the cabinet formation will lead to a structurally better financial position for municipalities. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? Of course, we do not know when the formation will be completed, but in the meantime the budget for next year must be drawn up. In any case, a better financial position for municipalities should already be seen in the 2020 budget. Is that how the Minister sees it? And does the government agree with our group that, in the event of future decentralisation, the financial consequences must first be properly assessed by an independent body before a final decision is taken on these decentralisations? The Council of State suggests the CPB, but it could also be another independent body. And should there not be a transition fund available at each decentralisation to cover the inevitable initial additional costs of transition in the first years? And can the Minister-in-Office at least give me a suggestion from the Council of State that BZK's budget should include an overview of all government expenditure to local authorities for next year? Mr. Chairman. Perhaps less obvious than the financial problem, but not less acute, is the democratic crisis at a decentralised level. That is what I started with, and I would like to talk about this in particular, even though, of course, the problem of intergovernmental relations is greater than this. I agree with the information the Council of State wrote at the request of the Minister. The striking feature of this request is that the questions put to the Council by the Minister, in consultation with the umbrella organisations, VNG, IPO and the Union of Water Councils, about the bottlenecks in intergovernmental relations, do not at any time mention the problematic democratic legitimacy. The main issues discussed are steering problems, dispute resolution between administrations and implementation power. This is certainly important, but we also see a one-sided governmental approach in this regard. Fortunately, in the answers, the Council of State took that into account. Several times, fourteen times in fact, the importance of democratic legitimacy is emphasised and attention is drawn to the vulnerability of democratic decision-making, especially in relation to regionalisation. Van Gurp and Kox mentioned this regionalisation and I will come back to that later. This democratic crisis has been known for some time now. I mentioned the government agreement of the present outgoing cabinet, which spoke of the need to improve political accountability over municipal cooperation. As a means of achieving this goal, it was proposed to amend the Common Regulations Act, to conclude City Deals and to introduce a right to challenge. Furthermore, the cabinet is hoping for municipal redeployment. It didn't sound very thoughtful. At first sight, there was not much of that either. I'd like a response from the Minister. The adaptation of the WGR is currently under discussion in the Lower House, but in the meantime the Minister welcomed the report prepared by the Study Group on Interadministrative Financial Relations, chaired by Bernard ter Haar, which was published in September last year under the title "As one government. Stroke towards the future!" and which also advised on administrative establishment. The study group called again for an inter-administrative task force to advise the cabinet on an alternative to the WGR within one year. An alternative to offer more scope and flexibility for cooperation between public authorities and public-private partnerships. I would like to say that that is not progressing. Shouldn't we be much more committed to co-operation within the WGR framework, if it is desirable to co-operate in a super-municipal context? Now about 60% of the partnerships fall outside the WGR, making it even more difficult for the board to control them. Does the Minister consider this situation desirable? Fortunately, on 15 October last year, the Özütok motion was adopted in the House of Representatives, which asked the government to discuss a shared problem analysis, possible solutions, etc. for the purpose of the cabinet formation. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the implementation of this motion? Is there a joint prepared agenda, as proposed by the Council of State for the cabinet formation? The formation has already begun for a long time. Mr. Chairman. You may experience some discomfort with me about the course of events. That is right, because there is no progress in improving the democratic legitimacy of local government, whereas this level of governance has become so much more responsible because of decentralisation. In fact, even if some steps are taken in the right direction, it is generally less democratic, says the Council of State. That has everything to do with the continuing regionalisation. More and more cases are being invested at a super-municipal level, where there is no elected representative. The already overloaded municipal councils usually have the check. The underlying problem is that the direction of regionalisation is lacking, that there is no plan. There are many reasons why this process of regionalisation is taking place and there are good reasons for this, for example when the complexity of decentralised tasks exceeds the capacity of the municipality. But why should this necessarily lead to regionalisation and not, as others have pointed out, to differentiation, where the large city centre takes on the more complex tasks? And what about pure implementation tasks, in which municipalities are left with no or very little freedom of policy? Is the question not then whether it is desirable to formally invest these tasks in the decentralised politics rather than in regional executives of the Empire, also known as deconcentration? Can the Minister answer this question? According to some, regional partnerships meet a need as aid structures, where others speak of an administrative patchwork. Researchers Reussing, Boogers and Denters observe both assessments, but point out that these support structures have significant democratic shortcomings. Sometimes regional partnerships are imposed by the Empire. This is the case, for example, with the Youth Act, but you can also see it in the Environment Act and the security regions, for example. Minister Hugo de Jonge announced a year and a half ago, well before the corona crisis, that the solution to many problems in care should be sought in further regionalisation. There's no directing here. The Council of State speaks of a flight in regional structures. Professor Elzinga Mr Kox already referred to him as "who previously wrote a test of a new decentral government law for the VNG," in his recent lecture on the Council's Day, points out the eagerness of specialist departments to roll out their policies at regional level in order to make pace, not hindered by troublesome politicians who want to make their own assessment. The municipalities in the VNG and the minister allow this, says Elzinga. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention five features of this problem of regionalisation in the form of statements, and I would ask the Minister to reflect on each of these statements. After all, it is a policy debate. Of course, I also invite my fellow speakers to do so. The list that follows is not intended to identify all aspects of the problem. That is impossible in the twenty minutes I have, but more importantly, it requires a much more thorough reflection of the great democratic problem that the PvdA Group considers to be at issue. Nevertheless, with the five characteristics, I hope to contribute to this reflection. Number one. Regionalisation leads to depoliticisation and guardianship by the Empire. Depoliticisation can be useful to some extent if it leads to better cooperation at regional level, but the limit lies in the actual exclusion of elected representatives, which is increasingly the case. The directors often send that too, with the reason that it is only 'execution' or 'apolitical matters' 'and that is not what the municipal councils are about', you hear them sometimes say. It is not for nothing that many regional groupings are legal college arrangements. Moreover, it seems that Professor Elzinga has already pointed out that the Empire, especially the trade departments, finds the administrative spaghetti of the regions an attractive level to roll out policy, precisely because local politicians have so little control over it. Departmental ministries carry out checks on municipalities and provinces as 'rijksheren in de regio' at that level. This varies from City Deals and the energy transition to the above mentioned youth care. Does the Minister recognise this image that Professor Elzinga has outlined? Number two. As a result of regionalisation, there is no room in the municipalities for a political balance between different sub-interests. Regionalisation is always specific to a particular policy area. When decisions are taken at regional level, they cannot be weighed against each other, which is at the heart of any democratic decision-making. If the result is that financial expenditure by municipalities is already largely fixed by regional decision-making, any necessary cuts can only be found in cases where municipalities still decide autonomously: the famous swimming pools and libraries, i.e. the municipal facilities. Municipal autonomy presupposes room for consideration. Would it not therefore be desirable to restore municipal autonomy financially by establishing that a municipal budget of at least a certain percentage, for example 30%, is freely expendable? Another idea from Professor Elzinga. Thirdly, regionalisation has led to an administrative spaghetti, also called a rattoe, which means that no one has the overview and council members, who are making a great deal of effort, for which my compliments are put at a great disadvantage. In a study by the VNG, many council members indicate that they do not have enough time, expertise and information to get a grip on decision-making in the regions. Regional decision-making is usually a matter for aldermen and thus weakens the position of the city council, which is already under pressure due to a general shift of standards and control to other bodies. This development leads to frustration and disinterest among council members. When regional cooperation takes place in geographically different regions, it is no longer possible for council members to oversee it. The Council of State also points out this. In this respect, the information in the RegionAtlas of the Ministry of the Interior speaks volumes. There are 49 different regional breakdowns in the social field alone. For example, there are 35 labour market regions, 42 youth care regions, 25 GGD regions, 87 social employment regions and 45 other regional breakdowns. Does the Minister consider this a desirable situation? Can it indicate what it has done to achieve the greater cohesion of regions it also wants? Rule 4: An elected representative should be present at the level of political decision-making. The starting point for resolving the growing democratic deficit at a decentralised level must always be that political decisions are taken at a level where an elected representative is present. Therefore, should not the commitment be first and foremost to remove the need for regionalisation, by investing policy-rich implementation tasks not with municipalities as a branch of the government, but with implementing authorities of the Empire? Or by limiting municipal cooperation as much as possible to relatively poor tasks, so that the municipality itself gets more room to make autonomous considerations? If a larger scale is desired, then scaling up to larger municipalities is not the only option. In some regions, it might be possible to consider the placement of current tasks at regional level in the province. The State Committee on Parliamentary System also does not exclude recent regionalisation. In particular, in the complex cases of youth care, a national scheme is required. And if regional cooperation is desirable for substantive policy reasons, should federation municipalities or elected representatives at regional level be taboo any longer? Does the Minister agree with the PvdA Group that a well thought-out plan on decentralised governance is desirable? What is the Commission's position on the idea of a law on decentralisation, as advocated by the State Committee on Parliamentary System and also by the UNG, but not considered necessary by the Council of State? Theorem 5. A strong position of a coordinating minister is desirable. The problem of a lack of democratic legitimacy through regionalisation, but not only these problems, can only be adequately addressed by a strong position of a coordinating minister who has the right of veto in the Council of Ministers in the legislative proposals of fellow ministers of trade departments dealing with the administrative organisation of the Netherlands. It is obvious to hold this position with the Minister of the Interior, as both the Public Administration Council, the VNG and the Council of State advocate. Does the Minister agree with this? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you to my colleague, of whom I now have the name...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	Koole, of course, excuse me. It is good that he comes up with five theories, because that is indeed an opportunity for us to speak with him as well. Do I taste that he actually says: regionalisation is possible, but then you shouldn't decentralize first? In other words, that regionalisation is actually more of an implementing body and then you keep it at the centre of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u19	Yes, Mr Falcon is right to say that he is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u20	Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u21	Schalk, I'm sorry. I thought I'd take the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u22	We're even!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u23	I'm getting busy today!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u24	He's definitely tasting that. If an effect of decentralisation is that in fact a lot of tasks are not invested at local level or at regional level, then you have to ask yourself whether that is desirable; that is what I am trying to say. If this is primarily a question of the implementation of national policies, with little room for autonomous consideration, then you might ask yourself whether you should invest it formally at the decentralised level and whether this should not simply be invested as a deconcentration at regional level, but as a performance of national tasks at the implementing bodies. That is one of the solutions that you could consider, because that must be part of an integrated plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u25	This clarification is fine, because it indicates to Mr Koole that there should always be representatives of the people if responsibility for certain decisions is taken. This cannot be done at regional level, because we did not organize it there in that way. So, in fact, all your statements are aimed at keeping it central when it comes to regionalisation, because otherwise you will never get good democratic considerations from the people's representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u26	No, it's not necessarily against decentralisation. But then it must be possible to implement it at a level where there is a representative of the people. If that is possible at the local level, or at the provincial level, then you need to invest it there. But what is happening now over the past ten years, and this is a huge development that I have put the emphasis on, is regionalisation. To a large extent, as Elzinga says, this has to do with the roll-out of national policies, which often happens at regional level. I mentioned Minister Hugo de Jonge, who has also announced further regionalisation in the area of care. There may be substantive reasons for this, but if it is in fact the implementation of state policy, then you should not want to invest it at all in the decentralised administration. Then make sure there are implementing bodies. If it means that real tasks involving freedom of consideration are invested at the local or decentralised level, then it can indeed be invested at those levels. So I am certainly not against any form of decentralisation, quite the contrary. Against the combination at the time with cuts. I agree with Mr Kox that this was a completely wrong combination. Decentralisation must really mean that the municipalities have powers in these tasks in order to be able to decide independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u28	To sum up, for my understanding. Do I understand that Mr Koole says: I am not opposed to decentralisation if it is invested at the right levels, namely in the province and/or in the municipality, but once you have all kinds of varying compositions with regionalisation, should you no longer see it as decentralisation, but as a state-owned task which is then developed at implementation level in those regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u30	Yeah, if it's really pure performance of empire tasks, then you have to deconcentration and not decentralize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u32	I have heard many good things in Mr Koole's contribution, including those five statements, of which I can wholeheartedly endorse the first four, and I am going to think about the fifth. But I also just heard him say that decentralisation and taking the budget off was a mistake. I have a question and also a statement for Mr Koole on the plan of the VVD/PvdA cabinet, Minister Plasterk. Do you think that considering 100 000 inhabitants as a minimum standard for the size of municipalities was also a very bad idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u33	I was in this Chamber at the time, and I was a spokesperson in this area, with the minister of my own party. If you had followed my approach then, you could have felt the discomfort of a spokesperson who disagrees on these kinds of points with his own minister. So yes, we asked very critical questions back then. We have said: that must grow from below, you should not try to steer it from above. We still believe that there can be exceptions, but in principle it has to be at the bottom. The whole idea of these 100,000 inhabitants-municipalities is quite something to say. That's a scale where you can handle a lot more things, but that's not the only idea. If it comes from the bottom, if municipalities join up to 50,000 or 100,000, that's fine, but to always impose it from above... There are also other variants possible, which I mention in my theories. That was one way to achieve it at the time. At the time, we also had questions about whether this should only be the only way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u34	That's good to hear. I hadn't checked that contribution back then, but that's good news. Could it not also be a solution in the future, which I will pay so much attention to in my first term, that, in the restoration of democracy at local level after decades of scaling-up in the municipality of..................................................................................................................................... So bet on scaling, on smaller municipalities, with democracy closer to the inhabitants, perhaps in combination with the proposals you make at regional level? So that we're really actively betting on scaling and human size?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u35	I'm very much in favour of an integrated plan. Mr Kox also mentioned this eight years ago, where you look at the issues that really play in conjunction. Then you may just go back to a smaller scale at some points. There's another way to do it, with a bigger scale. I also did not exclude any reclassification imposed from above if there are good reasons for this, which ultimately makes it better for the people, so that the services provided by the government are better served. That can be done, but the stakes should be that it comes from below. It should not just be at a decentralised level; you should also consider whether some tasks should be invested at a decentralised level if that is purely the performance of national tasks. I think that would take away a lot of pressure to achieve regionalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u37	I thought it was a very impressive argument. It didn't cheer me up, but you weren't happy either, I understand. Spaghetti, mess, what are we doing? And most importantly, where's the direction? Mr Koole actually asked a number of questions on the basis of his statements, but I am curious: should that, in Mr Koole's group's view, lead to an additional administrative layer being added, or that more is going to shift to the province? Because, of course, there is a major problem with regionalisation with the democratic input that is not really possible there. What should I deduce from your theories at that point? What should be the direction that we are going to take if we are to take the lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Nicolaï is asking a fair question. I asked the same question. My idea is that you cannot simply answer that now, but you have to start with an integrated plan and think about it. In doing so, the Minister for the Interior really gets a greater coordinating role. I do not think it will come down to anything if there is not one minister, who is put in a position with a right of veto in front of the trade ministers to say: it is nice that you want to do so in the area of care, but that has such effects on the position of the local authorities that I think we should not do it this way; we should look at another way. The Minister for the Interior, who operates on the basis of an integrated plan, needs to be given a strong direction. Within that plan I have mentioned various modalities. I asked if everything should be invested at a decentralised level. I'm not ruling it out either, but can it, where it does happen, perhaps in federal communities? Sometimes you do have to scale up. In some regions you may also be able to come to a regional parliament. I am not saying that this must necessarily be done, but if it is not possible in any other way... the starting point is that at the level at which the most important decisions are taken, you are trying to reach a parliament at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u39	I fully agree with the last point made by Mr Koole, and I think that almost everyone agrees with that. We are also very interested in what the Minister has to say. That brings me to a question. If I listen carefully to Mr Koole, he is talking about the autonomy of the municipalities. I understand perfectly well that, in the case of deconcentration, it is in fact merely carrying out a national task. You don't have to burden the municipalities with that. But when it comes to decentralisation and co-government... If we look at the needs of today, then there is a climate law coming up, we need to be able to fight future new zoonoses. There really is something going on that you say: there should be central control. Central control does not mean that you would not be able to involve municipalities, but whether the municipalities are still autonomously involved is of course only very much the question. How does Mr Koole view this affair?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u40	I am certainly not opposed to co-management, but on condition that the tasks associated with co-management and carried out at local, decentralised level are also adequately financed, so that the truly autonomous tasks remain truly autonomous space to weigh down. Hence Mr Elzinga's proposal to ensure that at least 30% of the budget remains autonomous consideration. Co-management is therefore fine, if it can best be invested at local level and in many cases that can be the case. But then, in my opinion, that is Article 108 (3) of the EC Treaty, as well as adequate financial provisions. The funds available for the autonomous tasks should therefore not be put under pressure, nor should the consideration of those autonomous tasks be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Nicolaï, third? No. Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u42	I am pleased to hear that Mr Koole and I at least agree that there is a need for a comprehensive vision of modernising the administrative organisation of this country. Unfortunately, when that motion was adopted nine years ago by this Chamber, it was not yet supported by the Labour Party group, of which Mr Koole was then the spokesman. But he has already outlined himself that sometimes it is awkward and uncomfortable when you want something, when you actually think differently about it. But with a view to the future: how do we achieve such an integral vision? We have asked successive governments, but they have not done so. Is there anything to say for my suggestion that, after the State Committee on Parliamentary System, we should have a state committee look at this? This is mainly in order not to be entirely regulated by national politics, but also to give local politics the opportunity to implement it. There will need to be a great deal of information and proposals for improvement. Would that be a method of giving the integrality of such a vision a real foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u43	I am hesitant about this, because the previous state committee I knew well has already mentioned this and I am also in favour of a law on decentralisation. He's already said some things about that. I would be much more interested to strengthen the position of the Minister of the Interior and to give them powers within the formation, that right of veto and so on. I would also instruct that minister to develop that integrated vision. A great deal of the problem has to do with this, which I have also tried to indicate with regard to the implementation of decentralised tasks, where at the time of decentralisation there was no proper consideration of the financial consequences or of the powers. We need an integral plan on the table. This is, of course, not only a matter for the Minister of the Interior, but it should be the trigger, with the necessary powers in the cabinet to enforce it more or less. This should be done in consultation with all those involved, not only the domes of directors, but also the domes of council members. There must be an integral plan in which that is properly regulated. To put a state committee back to work again... The previous state committee took two years. I was in there. Then you will be two years further and the next cabinet formation is almost again going on. We now happen to be having this debate at a time when the formation of the cabinet has yet to begin, in substance. I would like to give the message here: at least let one step be taken in this formation by making the position of the Minister, with that mandate of an integral plan, negotiable in the cabinet formation of today. We don't want to wait another two years for the report of a state committee. That would put my order in the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u44	The future has yet to be written, but there's something you can learn from history. We have asked the Ministers of the Interior twice, this Minister of the Interior, but also the previous Minister of the Interior, to develop vision. The pressure was there. You remember Ronald Plasterk's essay. If that was a vision, then we no longer understand the word "vision." Then we understand our Prime Minister a little better. But in those nine years, nothing has happened on this front. All the hard work aside, nothing has happened to develop such an integral vision. Then why would a successor of this minister be able and willing to do so? Couldn't these ministers have done it sooner because they didn't have enough power? Or is there something else bothering you, namely that apparently there is no great urge at a rich level to actually do so? It would also strengthen the position of local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u45	I can't give you a guarantee either. The lessons of the past may not always offer the same hope for rapid progress. But I'd say, let's see how this gets out in this formation. Then you can always set up a state committee for that specific purpose at the end of the formation. If you do that now, you say: you don't have to settle anything in the formation, because there's a state committee and it's going to work, then we can wait again. That's kind of my hesitation. It is not that I oppose it in principle, on the contrary, because I am very much in favour of an integrated plan. But if during this formation you could forge the iron while it's hot, I'd prefer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u46	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u47	Is the problem not just that we should take advantage of this debate to instruct the informant or the reformer or the forming parties? The problem is bigger than that. The problem of the decentralised unitary state and the democratic legitimacy of decision-making is much greater than that. Every government will have to deal with that. But now, to put on the table of the informant to settle what has not been settled by successive ministers and governments over the past nine years, isn't that overestimating our role and underestimating the input that we might have to say on the basis of reflection: every government that comes will have to look at this and find a solution to this? Isn't that a better order? If a state commission starts, she's not gonna sit around and sit down. She'll come up with results and you'll have something on the table, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u48	I'm not against a state committee in itself. I'm looking for a moment when you might be able to discuss that. I would be sorry if this moment of formation were not used to send a signal. I don't expect you to be able to take care of it all in formation right now. But if you take the first step there and if you ask the new minister where that plan is going, and if you do not, then the State Commission, I would certainly appreciate it in that order. I would be sorry if a state committee was set up now and nothing was done for a few years. Then maybe we should wait until the next formation. 'Cause this is such a big problem that you really need a trigger that's gonna pull that off over the next few years. If fully approached, using all kinds of committees and possibly a state committee, we will really be a number of steps ahead in four years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned five theories. This list of five characteristics of the problem of the lack of democratic legitimacy caused by continuing regionalization is not complete, as has been said. In addition, there are more issues in the decentralised administration. But it indicates that the problem is now so great that further consideration is needed. Integrally, the term has already been used in the sense that all relevant policy areas are involved when talking about the administration of the country, i.e. not only about the Interior, but also about the professional departments, in the sense that not only directors, as is often the case today, but also council members and members of the State, and in the sense that proposals on financial and democratic relations cannot be seen separately and that the design of the political and administrative structure of the country does not lose sight of constitutional cohesion. Organic legislation should take precedence over implementing legislation. Mr. Chairman. What to do? First of all, my group is obviously curious about the Minister's reaction, but certainly in this policy debate I have already had a number of reactions to the picture of a democratic crisis at a decentralised level. Do they agree with my group that the creeping process of regionalisation deserves further consideration from the perspective of democratic legitimacy? It is precisely the representative of the people who should be able to ring the bell when he or she gets signals from society that things are not going well in policy or in its implementation. The premium affair has demonstrated its importance once again. But the trend is in the opposite direction. Hopefully we can stop it, even on a decentralised level. I await with great interest the response of the Minister and his colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. Since 2015, the three decentralisations in the social domain have had an impact in practice. It's about the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act. And the Law of Integration is about to come, which also places important responsibilities on the municipalities. Decentralisation sees the D66 group in the light of the development of public management. In the 1980s, the paradigm shift from "care for" to "care for" in what is called "new public management." Although the values are determined by the government, implementation is preferably private. In this way, the NS, postal services and other public services are being privatised. But also in the public domain, implementation moves from central to municipalities and executive bodies. In addition, there is an increasing claim to civic participation and self-reliance. Putting the individual in his power. Professional help comes into the picture only when its own capabilities and those of the environment have been used. This new public management also means that public expenditure is expected to be limited. The criticism of the development of new public management focuses on ignoring public value and its creation. The market, competition and self-reliance have limits. In addition to individual value, the creation and safeguarding of public value is also important. After all, we are individuals within a social context. Classic public management thus moves towards public value creation and public value management through new public management. In the new public management, the privatisation of public bodies is an objective; in public value management, value creation is the explicit goal for citizens and society as a whole. Mark Moore, the well-known professor at Harvard, states that it is a task of the government to create public value. In the paradigm shift towards public value creation, network cooperation and partnerships fit more than market-oriented competition. The government is steering it from a serving role, as opposed to a top-down policy. If a government does this successfully and manages to create public value, then the public's confidence in that government will grow. This confidence in government is crucial for the functioning of government and society as a whole. The D66 Group believes that the market and also self-reliance have a place within the creation of public value, but that it should be enriched by a strong and serving government, which is committed to good relations, which pursues integrity and cooperation, which acts on the basis of trust and which aims to create value and meaning. The D66 Group is curious whether the Minister supports this vision of value creation and the role of the government. From this point of view, moreover, we are looking at the idea behind the decentralisations. The idea is that municipalities are closer to the citizens, so that the drafting and implementation of these legislation can respond more effectively to the individual needs of citizens. Furthermore, the municipality can identify early who needs care. This thought is certainly appropriate for public value creation. The above mentioned early alert would prevent more serious situations and reduce the cost of care in the long term. At present this effect has not been observed, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau concludes in a November evaluation. Decentralisation can also lead to a more integrated policy by local authorities, with work, income and care now being approached in relation to each other. After all, these matters are closely linked. Good youth care is hampered when a family is primarily concerned about a lack of income or housing. An integrated policy can achieve more. In its implementation, it is intended that the own social network should be used as much as possible. In practice, this is difficult to achieve, in which it must be said that 5 million Dutch people, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, provide care in our society. We would like to express our appreciation for this, but a clear increase in this has not been observed by the decentralisation of the WMO and Youth Act, so the SCP concludes in the Social Domain report on course. D66 was and still stands for this basic idea of decentralisation, also because it fits in with the development of public management that I described earlier. However, we are very concerned about young people who have to wait too long for help, about elderly people who need solitude and support, and about the growing gap between rich and poor. Although decentralisation has not yet succeeded in solving all these problems, we should not reverse the situation and pretend that the underlying problems have been caused by decentralisation. It has not yet been possible to create public value through decentralisation. This does not mean that the concept of decentralisation is wrong in itself. Deficiencies in implementation and development may be the basis for this. Let us not forget that providing tailor-made work in an integrated context for municipalities was a huge modification of the working method. My group believes that adjustments to the implementation will make it possible to achieve most of the objectives set. The SCP supports this assumption. As I outlined earlier, this requires a serving government that gives space to network cooperation and partnerships, and that puts value creation first for citizens. Within the given theoretical consideration of the paradigm shift over public governance and public value creation, we see almost daily in the news the harsh reality of the course deployed. The most obvious are the problems in youth care. Especially the long waiting lists are poignant. Recently, as First Chamber Committee for VWS, we had a good oral consultation with Secretary of State Blokhuis on the issue of youth care. We hope that his policy will improve this. In order to prevent repetition of implementation problems, the Council of State, in an oral consultation, suggested that legislative proposals should be sent to implementing bodies early in the consultation phase, so that the Council could then take better account of the implementation aspects with these opinions. In addition, some amendments which affect implementation could be submitted to the Section before voting on them. We would like to hear from the Minister how she thinks about these changes to the process, which, of course, mainly concern the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. An important and implicit consequence of any decentralisation is that there are differences between municipalities in implementation. The rules, fees, prices and provisions differ. The limited acceptance of this inequality is part of the overall misunderstanding that has arisen about decentralisation. We wonder whether the Minister also thinks that inequality is implicit in decentralised implementation and how we can deal with it realistically. The government wants to treat everyone equally and at the same time deliver customization, focused on the person. This can be done, but the frameworks must be drawn up in such a way that equality is experienced between municipalities and that choices can be made tailored to the individual. At the moment, the municipal frameworks under the legislation give much room for inequality between municipalities. Because of the implicit inequality between municipalities, the D66 Group would like to see a minimum level of quality as a prerequisite. Current legislation ensures that municipalities control the quality of, for example, the Wmo, but research carried out by ZorgfocuZ in 2020 shows that the differences in quality between municipalities are large, despite the fact that there is a tool for quality criteria of the VNG for procurement. The current legislation does not simply guarantee a minimum level of quality that is equal in all municipalities. Does the Minister agree with us that guaranteeing a minimum quality level for all municipalities within the legislation is desirable? And will the Minister promise us that she and her colleagues from VWS will look into ways of improving this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would like to come back to the issue of youth care. I am glad that Mr Van der Voort distanced himself from new public management. I share his appreciation of public value creation as a guideline, but perhaps we can talk about youth care. He says: we have not yet arrived; there have been a lot of falls, but perhaps we can focus even better on that. Does he also say that he excludes the need to find a higher level, perhaps national, for complex cases in youth care? Does he rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u54	No, I'm not ruling that out at all. I think it is very wise to address issues that occur infrequently and need that expertise at the level where that expertise and experience exist. This will certainly not always be at the local, municipal, level for complex cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u55	Do I understand that he is in favour of removing these special and complex cases from the municipalities and raising them to a higher level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u56	It is, of course, difficult to say exactly what needs to be done. I think that's very specialised. I understand there are plans for that. In the province of Friesland, where I live, so do I. There the lake is bought and worked out at provincial level. That seems to me to be a very good thing from the point of view of the clients. That's gotta get the room, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u57	That would really be a nice part of the desired integrated plan. However, the problem here is so urgent that we may not be able to wait until we have an integral plan in four years' time, if that ever comes. Perhaps we should say on this point: there are really exceptions. Decentralisation as an idea is fine, but you really have to check every time that it is invested at the right level. At this point, the complex cases in youth care, you say: you may wonder if this is invested at the right level. Where exactly it should be, is still a discussion, but where it is now invested is not good, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u59	I think there is quite a broad consensus that the most complex cases cannot be dealt with in a totally decentralised way. In the meantime, I believe that this is a fairly unanimous opinion in the field and is being used as such. Mr. Chairman. Within the scope of this debate, there are many aspects to discuss. The D66 fraction therefore chooses to focus on a number of recurring patterns. These are, firstly, knowledge and expertise, secondly, finance and third, regional classification and partnerships, which we have already talked about. With regard to knowledge and expertise, it is noted that the knowledge of the content and, above all, of the organisation of care in the municipalities is limited. Now that the legislation has been in force for a number of years, this experience is growing among officials and new council members, who work part-time, but these officials, who work part-time, need time to get involved in this complex issue. If reclassification creates larger municipalities, then there may be more scope to build up that expertise, but even then it may be limited. Does the Minister see a role for the central government in getting the level of knowledge at level? Perhaps a supporting institution can make knowledge available to the municipalities and be helpful, so that not every municipality has to invent the wheel itself. Is the Knowledge Point Local Political Parties also meant for this purpose or could this role be assumed? Procurement raises their own problems for municipalities. The choice that should be made in the market to function properly as a market is not always sufficiently present. Large suppliers are not easy to rule out or are in fact monopolist. This is also because there are relatively few providers in the second line. A well-functioning market is therefore not always present. In the provision of simple care, suppliers have developed which are cheaper, but the quality of which is not demonstrated or secured. What does the Minister intend to do to improve the functioning of the market? Or is this the time to convert part of the market into partnerships and networks, which also fits more with the aforementioned development of new public management to public value management? Our second focus is on finance. Decentralisation has been accompanied by a reduction in the funds available and by financing largely through the Community Fund. Decentralisation seems to have been used as a austerity measure. The large deficits that have arisen in municipal budgets after decentralisation have been disruptive, the relationship between the municipalities and the government has been put on considerable strain and has damaged confidence. The question arises as to whether the idea of decentralisation is based on sound assumptions. If so, can it be that these revenues can only be realised after years? In this case, sufficient compensation for the municipalities would be obvious in the first years. The practice shows that the financial advantage for the government was booked too early. It is warned by experts that the Law on Integration, which gives the municipalities the direction and new responsibilities, will create financial deficits, as in the case of the Youth Act. Our question to the Minister is how the government intends to deal with the current financial deficits that are at stake in many municipalities and are related to decentralisation. What lessons are learned from this for new decentralisations, such as the Integration Act? The report of the Public Administration Board, Rust-Reinheid-Regelmaat, notes that there has been a imbalance between tasks, administrative organisation, powers and funding. This imbalance should be repaired, with the solution not only moving towards more money. In response to the report, the Minister states that she proposes a multi-annual agenda and an action plan to strengthen local government, and that she will send it to the Lower House before 1 May. We would like to hear the elements of this action plan. Our group also wonders whether, in this context, the Minister will continue to see more opportunities for municipalities to levy more taxes themselves, for example, without creating new inequalities. Could tax collection be partly decentralised and used for the implementation of decentralisation at municipal level? The financial deficits in municipalities lead to a reduction in other expenditure, such as for preventive tasks. But prevention ultimately leads to less demand. When it comes to care, the benefits of prevention ultimately largely benefit health insurers. At present, it is not possible for health insurers to invest in collective provision for the prevention of future diseases. From this point of view, is it a sensible idea, in the view of the Minister, to give health insurers the legal scope to invest in public health benefits? Can health insurers participate in municipal healthcare expenditure at collective level in this way? It may be possible to examine different forms of this. Will the Minister undertake to consult with her colleague from VWS on this too? Due to the high expenditure and limited revenue of municipalities, there are financial disputes between government and municipalities. The Council of State is not positive about setting up a dispute council for these financial disputes. He prefers to see more structural solutions for the underlying causes of these disputes. The D66 Group shares this view but believes that, despite this, financial disputes can still be dealt with. Apart from the naming or establishment, we are in favour of a place where these disputes can be presented and a solution enforced. Does the Minister intend to set up such a dispute body? What's her argument about that? How is it going to shape such a college? As a third focus, the D66 Group mentions the division of the region into partnerships. On 26 April, my colleague at the University of Groningen, Annemarie Kok, said in a cry about our public administration that there are currently about 1,200 regional mini-governments around 32 themes. On average, a municipality in 33 regions is involved. There are two problems here: the democratic legitimacy that has been discussed here before, and also the question of how to make cooperation within these regions effective. They and others wonder how the province could play a greater role in this, rather than creating an intermediate administrative layer. Network cooperation and regional cooperation now sometimes seem like magic words that will have to solve many problems in the near future. Expectations are high. However, cooperation between organisations and municipalities is hampered by interests, financial arrangements and difficult exchange of information. A lot of research has been done into effective governance structures and framework conditions for successful cooperation. We think it is right to facilitate this as a government and also to temper expectations about the magic word "working together." Co-operation doesn't happen on its own. The central government can facilitate, for example, the emergence of more congruent regional or cooperation groupings. However, the Minister writes in her 2019 letter, entitled Future Public Administration: "However, I do not choose to outline an administrative final picture for the region, but to equip municipalities better and thereby strengthen the position of municipalities within the existing main administrative structure. In this way, I want to adjust the process of regionalisation." To this end, common rules are now in place in the Lower House. However, the Council of State is critical of the proposed changes to the WGR. In particular, he wondered whether the objectives would be achieved by the proposed changes. The D66 Group asks the Minister whether and, if so, how it incorporates this criticism in the WGR, although, of course, we in the First Chamber will not judge this amendment until later. We would also like to know whether the Minister sees a strong role for the province in relation to the partnerships as Annemarie Kok argues in order to prevent the development of an intermediate layer without democratic control. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State calls for a stronger position of the Minister of the Interior in decentralisation legislation by allowing this Minister to sign in. In itself we can imagine something about this, but in that case the Minister will also be able to take her co-responsibility into account in better alignment and implementation of legislation, our group asks the Minister. In this sense, the role of the Minister of Finance could also be reconsidered in the context of decentralisation, given the financial problems outlined above. The recommendation of the Council of State on the role of the Minister of the Interior is in line with the recommendation of the SCP when a more comprehensive approach to the three Laws on Youth Law, Wmo and Participation Law... is advocated by the Government. Can this take shape through the Minister of State or are there other options? Is the Minister prepared to look into the possibilities of taking a coordinating role in decentralisation legislation? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. On the assumption that decentralisation will continue in principle, the problems will have to be solved. We are interested in the Minister's thoughts and analysis on the situation that arose after the decentralisations of 2015 and also on the underlying problem of the distressing situations that arise and are widely measured in the media. In this contribution, we have focused on expertise, finances and partnerships from the point of view of public value creation by the government. We believe that development is needed in these areas, as outlined, so that municipalities can play their full role and fulfil the promise of decentralisation. We have asked questions to the Minister in all three areas, and we would like to hear the directions for solutions that she is in favour of and how the lessons are being implemented in upcoming new decentralisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr van der Voort spoke about the problem of regionalisation, so that there is actually a democratic deficit. I heard Mr van der Voort say'maybe there should be a part of it in the provinces' and 'we shouldn't be an intermediate layer anyway', but how can we in the not too long term not have state committees and so on and so on, so in the short term do something about that democratic deficit according to the party that has 'democracy' in its name?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u62	That is a very difficult issue and that is why we are debating it so extensively. There are many partnerships that work well. It is true that they have been put together and shaped in very different ways. It appears from our electoral programme that we are striving to form more unambiguous regions. If they work well, even the provincial layer could eventually lapse. But that is a long-term perspective. In the meantime, you're gonna have to get closer. This will have to be done from the government and at the same time from the municipalities. It will be necessary to look for forms of work which are in line with the longer term and which, in the meantime, recognise and resolve the problem as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u63	I am very curious to see what Mr Van der Voort means by 'find forms of work'. How am I supposed to imagine being held accountable to directors? In what form?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u64	Of course, that's very different. Depending on the policy area you are working on, you can give it a certain shape. But I fully agree with you that democratic control must be guaranteed as much as possible. That, of course, is what we are in favour of. The areas of implementation can rather be left to other forms of cooperation which also require less democratic control. So you're gonna have to look at each subject. However, I share the view that democratic control must be achieved as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr. Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u66	I would also like to come back to Mr Koole's interruption. That was about social services. Do I understand that your group also says that we need to think more carefully about where we are going to devolution rather than decentralisation? This deconcentration simply involves local offices that can function close to the citizen. Democratic control is needed less than in a situation where there is decentralisation and the municipality has to consider. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u67	I do not know whether I fully understand the question, but I do agree that we should leave implementation issues, in particular where democratic control is less necessary, as far as possible to implementing organisations and that we should give them room for manoeuvre. Policy making, accountability and control will have to remain under democratic accountability. It will then depend on the subject exactly how you set it up, but that seems to me to be the basic idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u68	That leads me to the next question to Mr Van der Voort. If you indicate that things can be worked out very well in the field of cooperation, then should you not call that decentralisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u69	Perhaps you could explain the question a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u70	Let me explain what I mean. Decentralisation seems to me to decentralise from one government to another. But all those 1,200 partnerships you mentioned are not all local authorities. So we really shouldn't call that decentralisation at all; then you just have to say: we keep it central, but we put the tasks and the implementation at a different level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u71	That's another model, isn't it? We are in favour of decentralising responsibilities. The municipalities are, of course, the body for this. In addition, you have the execution. So we are in favour of laying down the responsibilities of municipalities, also from the basic idea of decentralisation: closer to the citizens, etc. We support that. We also think that it is possible, but that you must create the right framework conditions for this as a state government. And that you should also look at how to shape regional cooperation, which should be particularly active in its implementation. But we support the basic idea of investing responsibilities lower, which is called decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u72	Well, then I'm actually seeing three problems. The first is that Mr Van der Voort also pointed out in his speech the inequality that arises, for example at municipal level, both in terms of knowledge and in terms of finance. We will then lay down certain responsibilities by means of decentralisation, but they will then have to be implemented in regional co-operations, so that you no longer have that democratic responsibility. You're gonna get a huge crooked growth, aren't you? Maybe that's why we got into so much trouble with youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Van der Voort, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u74	I believe that the legislation as it stands has not been sufficiently taken into account that disparities between municipalities arise. That is also what I argued, that this legislation should be designed in such a way that, in principle, there is no inequality between the municipalities in terms of the frameworks, but, of course, personalised care. Of course, it varies from one person to another. But that is different from the fact that the frameworks between municipalities are filled out unevenly. That is what the legislation, if you set it up properly, could pay more attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u76	That is a very interesting line of thinking, because with that we also put the mirror for ourselves. For we have voted in favour of legislation which has the effect of doing so. The important question for today, but also for the future, is how we can ensure that, if we continue to decentralisation and so on here, in this Chamber, we can better guarantee the viability. Apparently, we missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u77	Finally, Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u78	I share the analysis that we are, of course, part of it. This is such a big issue, of which the First Chamber is also a part, in the legislation that arises. So that's what we're gonna have to be very keen on each other. In my view, there is also an increasing awareness that we will have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u79	Thank you. On request, I shall suspend the sitting and the debate for a few moments, until 11.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u80	I give the floor to Mr Van der Burg on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. Having a policy debate in the Upper House at this time is actually quite complicated. Apart from the fact that the primacy for the development of policy is actually on the other side, in the House of Representatives, it is also a time of information; at least, we hope that it will be information time. We'll know after this afternoon, the expectation is. That makes it even more difficult to think again about the future, because, if so, what role this minister will play, is decided and does not know in the future. It is now the case that we, as a Chamber, decided to instruct ourselves to hold this debate. I quote: 'A thematic debate on the relationship between central and local authorities, and more specifically the balance between tasks, powers and funding'. The reason for the theme debate lies in the review of the decentralisations. That is what we are seeing today, because the item on the agenda is called 'Retention of central government and local authorities'. We are talking mainly about decentralisation. So we have already somewhat limited ourselves in, with occasional sidesteps. In addition, I quote: 'In view of the fact that the municipalities have very limited opportunities to increase their income, the demand for balance between tasks, powers and funding is directly linked to the feasibility of the legislation and thus to the primary assessment criteria of the First Chamber'. We could give ourselves a second assignment. Or, rather, it has already been given to us, by one of your predecessors, Mr President, our former chairman, Mr Tjeenk Willink, who has this afternoon the debate on his report which he produced two weeks ago, and in which he also specifically commissioned us. Indeed, he says: we need to pay more attention to the impact of policy implementation and in that context the relationship between government-citizens and the possibilities/opportunity of tailor-made work. I think that as a Chamber we have taken a good first step with the parliamentary committee of inquiry, especially when it comes to the impact of policy implementation. We want, sometimes in majority, sometimes collectively, all the good. It appears to work out differently in practice. And especially when it comes to Mr Tjeenk Willink's second point, namely the possibilities and opportunities of tailor-made work, the municipality comes into the picture, because one of the thoughts behind the decentralisations was that municipalities could anticipate more and that you had to do something different in Schin op Geul than in Delfzijl. Mr. Chairman. All parties in this Chamber, if not almost all parties, in case someone does not recognize themselves, agree that there should be a stronger government, a government that should address the problems. The Hague is always the focus of attention. It's also in election programs, but it's precisely when it comes to a stronger government that we need to figure out who the first government is. That's the city. The municipality is the place where the inhabitants of our country and the government meet much more than here, in this I would almost say The Hague stolp, if today it is a plus in the context of the corona policy that you are in a stulp. Municipal policy, like national policy, needs to be strengthened. The VVD's primary concern is that citizens are not so much waiting for more policies and policy debates as for implementation and more high-quality implementation. The UNG has sent us a note in preparation for this debate. It's mostly financial. That is a pity, on the one hand, and I shall come back to that later, but the VNG does have a point. Municipalities throughout the country no longer draw their policy responsibilities with the resources they have, and the distribution between municipalities also requires attention. What we see is that the task, which was linked to the three decentralisations, has proved unrealistic. We can talk about the causes of this. They're diverse. Do municipalities miss the purchasing qualities? Was better negotiated by the institutions? Is it precisely because tailor-made products are being delivered and therefore sometimes more expensive packages are being discussed? Do parents know the municipal government easier to find? In short, there are many reasons why it has not been realistic. But a fact is that many municipalities suffer from large deficits in the social domain. In addition, we also see that insufficient account has been taken of the local authorities' own ability to put their finances in order. That goes beyond the decentralisations. We simply see that there are municipalities with more earning capacity and that there are municipalities with less earning capacity. Apart from what you think of this political choice, it is a political choice of Amsterdam's city council to build social housing on the Zuidas, the most expensive land in the Netherlands, leaving tens of millions, if not more than 100 million, of potential income. While in Limburg, Zeeland, Groningen, some would say "luxury issues" at all, because shrinkage is lurking or is already in progress, or because the earning capacity on land for example is almost zero or in any case of a completely different order than what you see in the Randstad, with Amsterdam as an outlier. Smaller municipalities also have much less flexibility in their organisation than larger municipalities to tackle and tackle problems, and the financial impact of a necessary youth care or WMO provision is many times greater in a small municipality than in a large municipality. Before I became alderman, I was director of a large healthcare institution in Amsterdam, Amstelveen and Diemen. When we went to extramuralize a facility at some point, people came to live in a neighborhood, the alderman of Diemen said to me: because of your extramuralization, my annual budget is all gone at once. It was 15 residents. Smaller municipalities therefore simply have less flexibility in their organisation and in their communities than larger municipalities. Moreover, as a national government, it is obvious to invest in those areas outside the Randstad where people are looking for the opportunities and opportunities that are sometimes also available in the West. There too, we must look not only at extra money for the municipalities as a whole, but that is something that is going to be negotiated in a government agreement, but also at the distribution criteria and thus the distribution across the country. No misunderstanding: I said that the task linked to the three decentralisations proved unrealistic. At the time, I was a board member of the VNG as alderman of Amsterdam. In fact, my group chairman was chairman of the VNG at that time. Not just the two of us, but a large part of the municipalities were in favour of these decentralisations. I do, however, remember that this is the third point that has been made in this regard, namely that we were told in November what the outcome of the First Chamber debate was about a law which entered into force on 1 January. You should also look at this, for example in the light of future legislation. Just give municipalities plenty of time. I did not know at the time in March which groups of people I was responsible for from January onwards, and I do not mean the January period in the future. But this is more than just a decision on extra money and a different distribution of resources. We will also have to invest in local government, support councils better in their work, facilitate extra and also offer training opportunities. Political parties also play an important role in this. I believe that Mr Koole also referred to the role and position of local representatives at municipal level. We will have to upgrade this position with each other as governments, as political parties, also in the way we talk about it. Upgrading the local representative and putting her or him in a much better position. We will also have to invest in civil service organisations. That also requires courage from local administrators. They will have to make a regular decision that they will no longer be able to resolve matters at municipal level and therefore have to look regionally. And yes, that is already happening, of course, not only in youth care, the WMO and labour market policy. Mr Koole just came up with a very long list of the administrative spaghetti we know in the Netherlands. By the way, a term coined by the VVD'er Mark van der Horst in his 2006 book. This spaghetti means that we, as drivers, hardly know where to go. As a city councilman, you're completely lost, let alone a citizen understands what question he needs to be in which regional cooperation. We really need to do something with that. At some points it has been solved, at least in part it has been solved. For example, in the metropolitan regions, there are elements where there is democratic legitimacy, for example that councils have been formed, made up of council members from the underlying municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u82	Now that my name has been mentioned a few times, I must, of course, intervene, despite the President's call not to do so too often. I would like to ask Mr Van der Burg a question. He says the position of the council members should be upgraded. They need to be placed in position. What does he propose in concrete terms? "More support" is always said. That is good in itself, but I would almost call it an easy patch. You add some extra support and then you think it's solved. We need extra support, too. Reinforcement of the Registry, for example, should also be done. But shouldn't it simply be such that the council members also have the powers and the freedom to take autonomous decisions and not be forced to take certain decisions through a delay in information, for example on regional cooperation, which means that they have nothing to say about it? Isn't the problem much bigger than Mr Van der Burg's sketch? And what exactly does he mean by "positioning" and "strengthening the position of the council members"? What's he thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u83	That's broad. We will soon have the second term debate on the initiative proposal Van den Bosch/Van der Molen, which, for example, concerns external presidents, with which we relieve smaller councils and smaller groups. In the first period, we have said together that the debate needs to be much wider. It can therefore be additional hours that you give to smaller councils or to adjust the fee. It is about the support of the Registry, because we are seeing an increasing difference between the system that supports the driver and the system that supports the driver's controller. And we're really gonna have to deal with that. This debate does not only belong on the other side and is not only being held there today and in the near future, but it also translates into the municipal and provincial level. We really need to support council members more so that they can do their job, otherwise they won't make it, against collective power on the administrative side. That is a broad discussion that goes beyond just here, but we have to have it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u84	I would like to thank Mr van der Burg for strengthening this support towards that conglomerate of administrative power. What I'm afraid of is that we say: there are a lot of problems. I've also tried to outline them in my contribution and that we'll provide some extra support to those council members and think we're done with that. It is much more fundamental! One problem I have highlighted, for example, is regionalisation. Those patchwork blankets, that ratty bitch. Perhaps there are other party members of Mr Van der Burg who have invented even more beautiful terms. That's impossible for councilmen. No matter how well you support them, if you do not tackle the problem of regionalisation at the same time, you will never achieve what you would like to achieve, namely effective democratic legitimacy and control at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u85	We are in complete agreement on this, Mr Koole. But apart from the fact that we have to do something with all those regional associations that you had just as beautiful in your list, we should also simply strengthen the position of council members in what I would almost call "their regular council work," not regional, but just local. But you're absolutely right. I cannot even repeat the list you mentioned, but it is too much of a patchwork, not only in terms of numbers, but also in terms of powers and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Koole, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u87	I will indeed note that supporting council members is a necessary but insufficient condition, because much more needs to be done. I also note that Mr van der Burg agrees with the need to intervene in the patchwork of regions if it is to be possible for the members of the Council to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u88	You're looking for a difference between you and me, but there isn't, because I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u89	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u90	This also applies to regional decision-making, in order to close it, given the little debate we have just had. The Council of State, too, in its report of 25 March last, says something about this, namely that there must be a clearer democratic legitimacy. So, apart from the patchwork, there must also be democratic legitimacy, says the Council of State. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. When it comes to placing council members in a position at local and regional level, we must also look at ourselves in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u91	As his last words, Mr Van der Burg says: we must look at ourselves in particular. I very much agree with that. He now states in his speech, when it comes to the major decentralisations, that our assumptions have not been realistic. Consequences: large deficits in a large part of the municipalities. When it comes to regionalisation, we have rigged up a lot of things, but we no longer have control and control of it in a democratic way. But doesn't that sound a little too much like: that sort of thing happens to all of us? No, we came up with these things ourselves. We ourselves have invented to send tasks from the government to the local government, and we have invented to give too little money. Mr Van der Burg rightly pointed out that he voted in favour of decentralisation at the time in the UNG, and the VNG's forewife was very much in favour of that at the time. Her slogan was: if you have more money, you have more power. That's right. But then we gave more money, but not enough. As a result, since then, the municipalities have been faced with problems that we could have avoided if we had not provided sufficient funding for decentralisation in good time rather than in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u92	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u93	It doesn't happen to all of us. We do it to ourselves and, above all, to our congregations and our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u94	Absolutely, Mr. Kox, absolutely. Let me give you an example. It is the present outgoing cabinet, or rather the coalition that was there at the time, that has decided to introduce the subscription rate. With this, the government has saddled the municipalities with a huge problem, with the effect that people on high incomes suddenly had a free housekeeper and thus fired their regular housekeeper. That's just municipal politics, what happened here at the Binnenhof. When it comes to policies, we are in favour of them, and we are also in favour of a policy debate in order to assess how we can do better in the future. This did not happen to us, this is because of ourselves, I say "ourself" for a moment, but you had realized a different position in it than my party. Absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u95	It is important that we note this in this debate. Whatever happened in the past, we can now look at this and we must act on it. The question is: how can we improve the situation? In my speech I indicated that we have been asking for a comprehensive vision of the administrative organisation and the administrative relations in the Netherlands for many years. It's always acknowledged that we should, but we don't. Is the government, are we ourselves, capable of initiating this? Or could you use the formula of a state commission for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'll be back on systems later. I was just talking about "the coalition," also read "the VVD," which made a mistake in introducing a subscription rate within the Wmo. I also said that decentralisation did not work in the area of financial tasks. My club was a little more responsible for that than your club. But let me also give you an example of what "we" are responsible for and where your club is a little more in position, which you should also look at. Because if we decentralize, we decentralize. Then it should not be the case that, as soon as there is an incident in Ooststellingwerf or in Heerlen, there are queues of MPs immediately on Tuesday afternoon to play councilman and ask the minister to conduct policy development here, to engage in conversation and to take matters up. Decentralisation also requires restraint from you and me, for the sake of fairness, I admit that it will be more often on that side of the Binnenhof than on this side of the Binnenhof to allow it to be decentralised and not to impose additional rules on all 347 municipalities, because there is an incident in one municipality. For that cultural aspect, I look at your party a little more than mine when I look at the average Tuesday afternoon. We can also play a role in this with each other. But you're right, I'll tell Mr. Kox. And then I'll go on, Mr. Chairman, also with regard to the clock. So then this is no longer a response to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u97	That is the case provided that I give you the floor. First of all, I would like to give Mr Kox an opportunity to put his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u98	For then I assume that my first and second questions will be dealt with in the follow-up to Mr Van der Burg's speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u99	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u100	Otherwise I would just be here entertaining, and I didn't mean to. The intention was to get an answer to the question whether the VVD also sees something in tackling this extremely complicated and very long-lasting problem through a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u101	I wanted to come up with that, but I didn't want to do that as a so-called reaction to an interruption, so that I could secretly arrange more time for myself. I do believe that the government has an important role to play. 'Cause the government is still just a system leader. As a system-responsible person, Mr D66 also said a few things about Mr D66, you have a task, but the State-Remkes committee also says a few things about it. For example, a number of responsibilities are simply central. The Empire guarantees you as well as the minimum standards and rights. That is not the same as: everywhere in the country it must be the same. That is true: the Empire guarantees minimum standards and rights. Two: the Empire provides adequate financial resources, which we can see is not currently being discussed or is not being discussed. And the Empire is responsible if there are obvious errors or shortcomings in the system. There is a link with a question from Mr Kox. That mistakes must be corrected in laws that function, you may be able to avoid by also having a process law that lies at the front. That law of procedure, I refer to it for a moment, is supported by the State Commission in order to come up with a law on decentralisation. This allows you to prevent the need to recover in a processical way. So I am not so much in favour of a new state committee or a variant of it. I say: let us just have a good debate with each other on the opinions of the Remkes State Commission, which are already there. I think that a law on decentralisation is a good instrument. In view of the time I come to a number of points that lie more in the future. We are talking about decentralisation, but this is, of course, also about the role of Rich versus local government. There are still quite a number of challenges at national level. It happens that some of them also touch this minister. I am thinking here, for example, of the housing valuation that is there. I am thinking here of the NOVI, an extremely important instrument in the framework of the future Environment Act to set the frameworks. In it, this minister, I would almost say, should be a director and producer. But even if we are once again faced with future decentralisation, I see an important role for this minister. For BZK should also be the guardian of the decentralisations and of the municipalities. In this sense, she should have a very important role. Without the signature of the Secretary of State, you shouldn't really have decentralisations. Then task differentiation, also mentioned by a number of people. I would also like the Minister's reflection on this. Because we treat everyone in this country equally. That sounds very nice, but when it comes to municipalities, not everyone is equal. Why not opt for task differentiation even as a solution element when it comes to the lack of democratic content in regionalisation? I would also like the attention of the Minister and a response to that. So far, Mr. Chairman, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. On 21 January 2020, the Commission for VWS held an oral consultation with Minister De Jonge on the decentralisation of long-term care and youth care. Among other things, the consultations discussed the architecture of these decentralisations. These consultations have also led to today's debate. The Christian Union Group would like to join this line and concentrate on the question of architecture, to use that word anyway. These are the following questions. Who's responsible for what? How do you get a better design? And how do you shape democratic control? Ultimately, this concerns the question of Thorbecke's house. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go back in history for a short time. In 1856, a good family was born in Philadelphia Frederick Winslow Taylor. As a child, he was obsessed with physics and mathematical issues. For example, when he went to school, he constantly experimented with his legs to find out what step size was needed to travel with minimal energy in the most rapid way. This obsession eventually led him to design and manage organisations in a scientific way. In his mind, managers and performers had their own tasks. Managers had to think. They had to say: so and so work must be done. Employees in the workplace just had to do it. Taylor would be known as the father of scientific management. Taylor didn't believe in people. He believed in systems. He wrote: in the past the man has been first; in the future the system must be first. Taylor's influence on Western society cannot be overestimated. His concepts have formed many generations of executives, including in the government. Under his influence, governments developed into organisations, in which the higher authorities determined how local authorities should work and how to do all that. Half a century later, something special happened. In 1951, British researchers Eric Trist and Ken Bamforth of the Tavistock Institute in London made a discovery that shook organizational science on its foundations. In the town of Durham they found an organizational structure that had broken Taylor's principles. It was an organizational structure that had been designed more bottom-up and in which mining workers were involved in a mine... had much more room to make the decisions they thought were necessary. The result was higher production and lower absenteeism. Mr. Chairman. I come to today's debate. If you think broadly, you can characterize the decentralisations as a transition from Taylor to Durham, from top-down to bottom-up, from bureaucracy to participation, from performing to thinking, also on the workplace. If you think broadly, then before the transition the system was central and after the transition the employee, in this case the official who is in contact with the citizen. In preparation for this debate I have had a number of conversations with people in my own province, Limburg. With the consent of those involved, I share two stories. The first story is about youth care. It is found that the municipalities have little knowledge of the content of the youth care system. There are also major problems with buying in, especially from specialist care. In addition, there are many indirect costs due to an explosion of suppliers and fragmented contract management. Furthermore, the municipalities are responsible, but in the end they have little control over the whole process. The second story is about the policy on corona. In the Provincial States of Limburg there has been a discussion about the policies of the security regions. In view of some of the provincial dossiers, these regions have been invited to discuss the policy pursued with the States. That proved to be a difficult process. All this showed that cooperation between administrative units is not self-evident and that the democratic control of regional structures is not self-evident either. These stories can be endlessly supplemented with stories from other domains and other provinces. In both stories, the design of responsibilities plays a major role. In the first story it concerns the design within the domain and in the second story about the cooperation between the different administrative units and the democratic control of them. I would like to go into both points in more detail. Mr. Chairman. After the discovery of the Durham case, a lot has happened. The break with taylorism was consolidated and this new way of working was theoretically substantiated and later referred to as "the participatory organization," the "democratic organisation" or, in the Netherlands in the 1960s and 1970s, also as "the new works." One of the core insights of this new way of organizing is that problems in the workplace are often caused by wrong decisions of the structure at the top of the organization. Popularly expressed: if a civil servant cannot guarantee good youth care, the origin of this problem lies with the highest boss. the Minister or the Secretary of State. The discussion paper on Care for the future recognises this responsibility, but it is striking that in that note the focus is on, what I would like to mention, horizontal problems in the care: cooperation within the region and coordination between the domains. There is little attention given to what I would just like to mention the vertical problems. Which level of governance is responsible for what? An important directive for this new way of organizing is that the higher level of governance should solve the problems that a lower level of governance cannot solve. Or thinking in the house of Thorbecke: what the municipality cannot do, the province must do and what the province cannot realize, the Empire must do. The striking thing was that my interlocutors paid a lot of attention to those vertical problems in the field of youth care and also suggested solutions for how to solve those vertical problems. I am not, of course, concerned with the details of the solutions. Does the Minister recognise this vertical problem? Can the Commission promise that discussions on decentralisation, for example with regard to youth care, will also identify this vertical problem and that vertical solutions will also be taken into account? How does she see her role in this? I am thinking of Mr Koole, Mr Van der Burg and all sorts of others, and rightly so, have already put a great deal of emphasis on the role of the Minister of the Interior in this. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second story: cooperation between administrative units and democratic control. In a publication by the Montesquieu Institute, entitled "So it is possible" the Dutch government has become a patchwork. They write on pages 29 and 30: "The Dutch domestic government, which at first sight seems to be well-designed and nestled, based on Thorbecke's house, has in fact been gradually transformed into a patchwork of functional administrative units over the past decades. Because of the lack of regionalisation and regionalisation, professional departments were each able to draw up laws decentralising tasks to local government and creating a separate division of regions over and over again." I give some figures, a row similar to Mr Koole's. We have 42 youth care regions nationwide, 32 healthcare office regions, 29 environmental services, 25 GGD regions, 25 security regions. If I count correctly, I need to be able to name more than 40 other regions, all with different numbers. Some regions or services fall beautifully within the province's borders, others fall into several provinces. Some regions and services are congruent, i.e. they have the same boundaries, but others are not. The lack of clarity and complexity of these regional structures seriously undermines the effectiveness of the regions. It is very much about the coherence between them, but there is also a major democratic problem. Many of these regional structures consist of common arrangements, with the democratic legitimacy of the individual municipal councils. In practice, it is difficult to tell. Mr. Chairman. Here too, there is a fundamental demand for the organisation of responsibilities, not only vertically but also horizontally. Then the question is how to organize these kinds of structures, if you need them, given the system of the house of Thorbecke, in which Rijk, provinces and municipalities form the most important floors. Does the Minister have any idea of the different forms of regionalisation and regionalization in the Netherlands? To what extent would it be desirable to achieve greater uniformity in regionalisation and regionalisation? How can this type of regional activity be democratically controlled? What role can or should the province play in this? And what role does the Minister want or should he play in this? Mr. Chairman. The intention of the transitions was to give civil servants in the workplace the space to deliver tailor-made work, and the aim of the regional structures was to allow the regions to flourish. Those intentions have not been fully achieved, not yet or not yet. If the core understanding of the new way of working is true that problems in the workplace often originate in the top of the organisation, then this core understanding tells us something about the responsibilities of the ministries concerned. That's where it's wrong. But then it also says something about the controlling task of this house. This house, the First Chamber, let it happen, just to put it that way. With regard to these problems, too, the title of Jesse Frederik's book on the Surcharges affair may be topical: We did not mean it that way. Mr. Chairman. More room for local authorities also means that more tailor-made work can be done, for the individual citizen and for the different regions. The other side of the coin is that differences may arise between municipalities, regions and provinces. Several colleagues have already drawn attention to this. It is the responsibility of those responsible for the system to ensure that these differences do not lead to greater contradictions in society and ultimately not to legal inequalities, with justice and peace as important public values. I would like to join with the story of Mr Van der Voort. How does the Minister intend to prevent that? And how does she see her own coordinating role in that? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Christian Union Group believes that Thorbecke's house should remain the basis for the administrative organisation of the Netherlands. The establishment should primarily take place along the lines of Rijk, province and municipality. Through these lines, democratic control can be effectively shaped. Mr. Chairman. I refer to my historical introduction to structures which break Taylor's principles. In the end, it is a serviceable government, a government that is close to its citizens and that is looking to flourish. The point is that man is central and not the system. I'll come back to the stories from Limburg. It's about the parent who needs good care for his or her child. It concerns the province and security regions which both want to best shape the security of corona. Our group looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u105	I would like some clarification from Mr Verkerk on the regions. You say that all kinds of regions have been formed in all kinds of ways. We have the GGD regions, the security regions and a lot of others. Of course, they didn't come into being for nothing. Apparently, there is a need to form a region with each other to solve a problem that cannot be solved at provincial or municipal level. How does Mr Verkerk and the Christian Union see its future? Should these coûte que coûte fall under provinces? Do they have to go back to municipal level? Or is there, in the long run, a level that knows the size of these regions, so that the provincial layer may no longer be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u106	I think Mr Van der Voort is touching on a very important point here. The first thing the Christian Union repeatedly stresses is also the strength of regions. We know from sociological research that regions will flourish if you support their strength. You can hardly influence that force from above, but that force can be shaped from below. The second is that we really have the problem of the proliferation of the regions. There are several solutions for this. For example, I am looking at South Limburg, where we have two GMD regions, four youth care regions and two environmental services. About everything is organized within the region. Everyone knows that there are differences between North Limburg and South Limburg, not only culturally, but also politically. If we also look at the specific problem of the eastern mining area, we would ask for extra attention. Then we'll have to do two things. We will have to a. ensure that this cooperation is greatly facilitated and b. that there is a democratic control that can also set priorities. Then I can imagine that, in a particular design, the province will also have a greater role in democratic control and that the coherence between the dossiers will be improved. One of my examples was about the disappearance of the links between the files.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u108	Do I understand why you are advocating that there should still be a layer between municipalities and provinces, which is also under democratic control? Or is this democratic control invested in the province? That is not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u109	I have indicated in my story about the new works that you also have to think very fundamentally about where you lay which responsibilities. Several proposals have been made here to create a more sustainable administrative home of the Netherlands in the future. This can be done through a new government agreement, through a strong Minister for the Interior, and it can possibly be done through a committee. I want to be open about that. For me, it is important that the regions and the citizens flourish, but that we also have good democratic control. If we don't do something about it, things will continue to grow as they grow now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you. I shall now suspend until after lunch, in connection with an additional committee meeting on covid legislation at 12 noon, in which some of you should be present.
