ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Public Health Act to include the Scheme 2019-nCov. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the Members of Parliament present, the people in the public gallery, again, and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Meijeren, from the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Madam President. On 28 January 2020, Minister Bruno Bruins decided that corona should be considered an "A' disease from that moment on. Diseases with an A status are the most dangerous that exist, such as Ebola, MERS, smallpox and SARS. By giving a disease the A status, the most compelling measures in the Public Health Act also apply. Such measures may then be imposed to limit the spread of the disease, such as compulsory quarantine, professional bans, forced isolation and so on. Measures that violate fundamental rights, but which are sometimes perfectly understandable that they are reasonably justified if they are necessary to prevent a life-threatening infectious disease from spreading rapidly to the population. Corona also seemed at the time, so at the beginning of 2020, such an extremely dangerous disease at first sight. It was a new, unknown virus about which all kinds of ghost stories were circulating. It would have arisen because someone had eaten a bat and so there were more wild stories; very terrifying all. In the media images from China appeared of people suddenly falling apart in the middle of the street, after which aid workers in protective white suits secured the bodies and sprayed the whole street with disinfectants: nasty, terrifying images that went through marrow and leg. And although Corona did not occur at that time in the Netherlands. The first case in the Netherlands was only discovered on February 27, so almost a month later........................................................................................................................................... But what is interesting is that under Article 20, first paragraph, of the Public Health Act, the Minister can only consider a disease as A disease if there is a well-founded suspicion of infectiousness and of serious danger to public health. This is interesting, because on the day that the Minister decided to label corona as A disease, 28 January 2020, and also in the following days, RIVM tweeted remarkably enough that the disease would not be as contagious at all, would not be easily transmitted from man to man, and that we did not have to worry. The RIVM even tweeted on February 25: "With what we know now, the virus looks like the common flu." How does the Minister explain these particular contradictions between, on the one hand, the ministerial decision of 28 January 2020 to label corona as A disease and all the other signals that we were dealing with a very dangerous virus and, on the other hand, the RIVM tweets from that same period, which can only be concluded that we had nothing to fear, because corona is not much more dangerous than ordinary flu? I'd like a response. These were first, small signals that something wasn't quite right about what was being told about this virus. But it gets even more shocking. After the first case of corona was discovered in the Netherlands on 27 February 2020, the measures followed each other at a rapid pace. It started with an urgent advice not to shake hands for a while. Then came the advice to work a few weeks at home, a few weeks, huh, to flatter the curve. But step by step, the measures went further and further, and the mandatory measures of the Public Health Act had to be implemented. That was possible, because corona has been considered an A disease since January 28: mandatory quarantine if there was a suspicion that you were infected and forced isolation if you were demonstrably infected. But none of this turned out to be enough to fight this dangerous killer virus. At some point, corona was considered so incredibly dangerous that even the measures that have been in place for years to combat A-diseases, i.e. to combat Ebola, to combat SARS, are therefore measures such as mandatory quarantine or isolation, which have been in the Public Health Act for many years, were not considered sufficient to combat that new virus from China. The existing measures could only be imposed on people who are self-infected or suspected of being infected. In order to fight corona, it was suddenly necessary to be able to lock up perfectly healthy people. To this end, the existing systems of the Public Health Act were completely abandoned. By means of a real authorisation law, also known as the emergency law, a new chapter replaced it. On this basis, the Minister of Health was independently empowered to impose the most insane measures: mandatory quarantine for healthy people, prohibition of cooperation, curfews. You can't think of it that crazy, or we're facing it. The aim of the measures also shifted. When the curve of hospital admissions had long and wide flattened and that original goal had been achieved long ago and the hospitals at some point even completely emptied, the goal suddenly became to reduce the number of infections. But where the government is talking about "contaminations," it is actually talking about positive tests, while far from every positive test also means contamination. Thus, healthy, non-infectious people were also registered as "contaminated" as justification for ever-increasing measures. Within a period of one year, Dutch society, which was once so free and open, turned into the most horrible dystopia. She turned into a one-and-a-half-meter society, a test society. A society in which it is punishable by giving each other a hug or even a hand. A society in which the elderly, who have built up our country, were forced to die in solitude, after which the relatives were only allowed to attend the funeral via an iPad. A society in which we are humiliated because we have to wear non-working mouth caps, because they may not protect us from the virus, but they may influence our behaviour if we continue to face it so that the virus is still among us. A society with weekly press conferences, on which one week we were even more infantile than the other week, as if we were a couple of toddlers who are being addressed by an elementary school teacher who talks about the latest developments in ic-capacity, the latest contagion rates, the most current R-value and the threat of new variants of the virus; press conferences with real deaf interpreters, so that everyone knows that it is really very bad what is going on. A society in which it was forbidden to normally celebrate a wedding with your loved one, unless you happen to be Minister of Justice, and thus run the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because then suddenly there seems to be a lot more to do and then the virus is suddenly not so dangerous. A society in which it was forbidden to sing, in which, in the interests of public health, we were no longer allowed to go to the gym, but still to McDonald's. A society in which small children have been taught that they are a potential danger and need to distance themselves from parents and grandparents, and have therefore been made responsible for the safety and protection of the elderly, while children have to grow up with the idea that they are protected by adults. A society in which a new low point was reached yesterday, when it became clear that our children too, sometimes just 12 years old, will be subjected to experimental gene therapy brought to man under the misleading and euphemistic term "vaccination" or "prick," because that sounds so familiar. Mr. Chairman. All this misery is based on the assumption that corona is among the most dangerous diseases, that this virus deserves the A status. But is that even true? When you look at other diseases from group A, ebola, MERS, smallpox and SARS, you notice that corona is a very strange duck in the bite. These other diseases have mortality rates of 50%, 35%, 30% and 11%. When corona was identified as A disease on 28 January 2020, that mortality was estimated at 3%. In the meantime, this has already been adjusted to 0.15% to a maximum of 0.23%. So where in January 2020 such an A classification actually seemed to be very harsh, that is really absurd now when you look at those mortality rates. In fact, the mortality rate of corona is better comparable to the annual flu virus, with mortality rates estimated at 0.5% or lower. Then the Minister says: you have to look not only at mortality rates to determine which group to classify such a virus, but also at the overall risk to public health, including the mode of contamination, the rate of infection, the pressure on care, the overall resistance in society and so on. But even if we take those criteria, corona is in all respects comparable to the regular seasonal flu. Nota bene RIVM itself acknowledged this on 25 February last year. It is sometimes said that we trivialize and compare corona with a flu, but that is not the case. When people in daily speech talk about "a flu," they usually talk about mild cold symptoms and a little headache. But corona, of course, can be a lot worse than that for vulnerable people. We do not compare corona with a flu, but with the flu, or the influenza virus. Like corona, the influenza virus is a very common virus, which demands many thousands of deadly victims every year in the Netherlands. Every few years, there's another flu epidemic and hospitals are packed with flu patients. For example, in 2014-2015 nearly 2 million people reported to the general practitioner with flu complaints and 10,000 people died from the flu in 21 weeks. Also the year 2017-2018 was a very violent flu year, with over 16,000 hospital admissions in four months and over 9,000 people over 18 weeks. Even then, regular care had to be scaled down, patients had to be moved to other hospitals and care workers were working overtime, just because of the flu epidemic. In this respect too, therefore, the last year has not been so exceptional. In this respect too, last year is very similar to a year in which there is a normal flu epidemic in our country. The only difference from a common flu epidemic is actually that extreme amount of fear that is driving us all day long. Everywhere we go, on the street, in shops, we see mouth caps, cough screens, matrix boards, mandatory walk directions everywhere. And then the media! From television to the newspaper and internet, everywhere we are bombarded with corona, corona, corona. So you're going to believe that there's a very dangerous virus, which is completely out of the question when you look at the objective facts. But if corona isn't so dangerous and similar to the common flu, why this terrible policy, with so many harmful consequences for our entire society? Many people are still under the impression that although very bad and inimitable policies are being pursued, so much is now clear to everyone, but that this is simply the result of incompetence of outgoing minister De Jonge. They think that he may not be capable enough to lead us out of this crisis, but that he has the best intentions and at least does his utmost for public health. But I don't believe in that anymore. It is now quite clear that the so-called health crisis is being abused to bring about a state of overall government control. There is no health crisis; there is a crisis of freedom. Our democracy and our rule of law are slipping out of our hands. Many facts and circumstances leave no room for the now naive assumption that the corona policy is aimed at protecting public health. Why, for example, should only the OMT experts appointed by the government, who are by definition not independent, because they are part of the RIVM and thus of the Ministry of Health, express their views in the media? All independent experts, including professors, professors, even Nobel Prize winners, are ridiculed and even censored at the slightest or least by anyone critical of government policy. Why, for example, should there not be a debate on whether corona might have been developed in a laboratory? That was first put down as a conspiracy theory. On Facebook it was not allowed to be said anymore, but in the meantime there is no doubt about it. Facebook has now said: well, well, then that opinion can be expressed again on Facebook. So that's how you see the danger of that censorship of critical views, because that's how it takes longer until the truth comes to light. Why was there such a panicky reaction to scientists who simply pointed out that the measures were ineffective because no account was taken of aerosol contamination? Didn't the government want us to get control of corona? And why not listen to independent doctors and scientists who, for example, point out that these so-called vaccines are not vaccines at all but a form of experimental gene therapy with enormous risks and also unnecessary, because there are many suitable medicines available? Why aren't these experts being listened to? People who have made a lot of money, I told you: professors, professors, Nobel Prize winners. Why was it announced everywhere in no time that only a vaccine could get us out of the crisis? Why is never used to treat corona with drugs that are proven to be effective, such as ivermectin? Why should and will the entire population now be injected with this experimental substance, the effects of which are completely unclear in the medium and long term, at all costs? That's unbelievable! And about those QR codes that we all need since last weekend to get access to social life. If it were to be a matter of ensuring the safety of visitors, why should this book be used as a vaccination certificate to enter a club or to attend a sports competition? Or just a negative test result? Why should such evidence necessarily first be converted into a QR code, which is scanned, in which additional personal data are processed? Mr. Chairman. The only reason for this is that it appears that there is a need to roll out a digital infrastructure, which can be used remotely to determine which citizens have access to which parts of social life. Extremely convenient for monitoring, monitoring and influencing the behaviour of citizens. In China, they have known this system for many years under the name "social credit system." It is quite clear: protecting public health has nothing to do with this, but it has nothing to do with it. The current policy serves not the interests of the Dutch people but only those of the elite, driven by types like Klaus Swab who, in the current situation, simply recognizes it as an extraordinary opportunity to roll out his reset agenda. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are being paged on all sides is confirmed by the handling of the bill we are discussing today. Actually, it's because of the absence of that. We would almost forget that today we are discussing the bill that includes corona in Group A of the Public Health Act. And that subject of this bill, of course, raises questions at all. Many people are also surprised, including Members of Parliament who I have spoken about this. They say, "Hey, corona's already an A-disease, right?" It's been like that since last year, hasn't it? But, strictly speaking, that is not the case. Corona is currently regarded as an A disease, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech: since 28 January 2020, however, it is strictly not yet an A disease. Here's the deal. Under the Public Health Act, a disease can only be put through a law in Group A, i.e. after the parliament, the parliament, is involved. That also makes sense, because the consequences are enormous. From that moment on, very far-reaching constitutional restrictions can be imposed, and we do not want to allow a minister to decide this on his own. Parliament must be involved in this. But a change of law takes time. It must pass through the Council of Ministers, then to the Council of State and then to the Lower House and the Upper House, a trial that will soon take months. That can sometimes not be waited for when a new dangerous virus suddenly appears. Therefore, an emergency provision has been made in the Public Health Act. The first paragraph of Article 20 makes it possible, in the event of an emergency, to make a provisional provision by means of a ministerial arrangement. For example, if a new and dangerous virus occurs unexpectedly, it can be arranged within a day that that disease is considered an A disease. It is then regarded as an A disease, which is not yet an A disease, but at least it will be possible to initiate the measures which may be necessary to prevent the spread of such a new virus very quickly. But according to the same article in the Public Health Act, this must be properly regulated by law as soon as possible, so that Parliament is involved in this fundamental question as soon as possible. The first step was made in good time. The bill we are discussing today was submitted on 24 February 2020. As usual, the written procedure began, which means that Members of Parliament can ask written questions from the committee. This also happened on 18 March 2020. But then something remarkable happened. The Minister refused to answer the questions in question within the time limit set for that purpose, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, 1 March. In addition, the Minister did not fulfil his legal obligation to ensure that the legislative proposal was dealt with promptly. So the Minister acted unlawfully. Only after the Forum for Democracy repeatedly insisted on the answers, did the Minister come forward with the answers on 27 May this year, i.e. more than one year and two months after the questions were asked. So that's 11 months late. And all the time, this bill could not be dealt with, while the Netherlands was suffering from the greatest restrictions of freedom we have experienced in this country since the Second World War. It seems that the Minister was not waiting for a substantive examination of the bill. That he didn't want to talk about how dangerous corona actually is, knowing that it simply cannot be maintained that this is a disease that is as dangerous or even more dangerous as Ebola. In particular, the Minister has for more than a year denied Parliament the opportunity to express an opinion on this important legislative proposal. By failing to fulfil a legal obligation knowingly and knowingly, the Minister has even committed a criminal offence, as set out in Article 355 (4) and Article 356 of the Code of Criminal Law. Strictly speaking, therefore, the Minister could be prosecuted for this and sentenced to prison. I think that would be more than right if you saw how much damage has been done. The Minister is fortunate that the order for persecution must be given by a majority of the House of Representatives. Just let the House of Representatives be in no way serious as an auditor of the government or as a careful legislator. It doesn't even matter to the Chamber that illegal acts are being committed. I have also put forward proposals through the committee to organise a hearing on this subject with expert lawyers, who could shed light on this and confirm that this is indeed an illegal act. But the cartel parties didn't see anything in that and blocked that proposal. I have asked the Council of State to provide information on this, but there was no support from a majority in the Chamber for that either. It's weird. If there is such strong evidence that the legislative process is not being properly followed here and that the legal basis under all co-ordination measures is not sound, then it is the duty of Parliament as co-legislator to take a serious look at this. But it seems that a majority of the parties even support the Minister in his ludicrous desire not to debate this bill. VVD, CDA, D66, ChristianUnion, Labour Party, GroenLinks, SP: where is everyone? They're not even here. Also the large and medium-sized groups of 10, 20, 30 or more seats: they are simply not there. They could not send a single MP here to debate whether or not Corona should be definitively regarded as A disease and as such should be enshrined in the law. We do not want to talk about this crucial question. It's been hours here. What am I saying? For nights spent on petty matters like "does a test have to be free or not?" and "should or should not the Tozo scheme be extended to that sector?" Of course, that is also important, but it is not the most fundamental question we are discussing today. It's bizarre, isn't it, that these parties are just losing it completely? Maybe they're all celebrating the abolition of slavery, but in the meantime, a bill is being dealt with here confirming a new form of slavery. Mr. Chairman. It's shameless. It's job neglect and a thick middle finger to all the Dutch. The legislator has decreed that the parliament should be involved in the classification of diseases in Group A, but the debate is shy. It is known that there are no substantive arguments and is too cowardly to show up at all. I don't have any words for it. It's unbelievable. What a parliament! We are not even pretending to represent the people here anymore, except the representatives of the Party for Freedom and even the one-man group of the Farmers' Movement, who are the only ones present here. Mr. Chairman. The importance of this bill is impossible to underestimate. Whether the bill is passed or rejected, in both cases the consequences will be extremely profound. I therefore make it clear that I will request a roll-call vote on Tuesday, because it is important to see which Members of Parliament are on which side of history. No one can say, "I habe and cousin kissed." The Dutch have a right to know who chooses a health dictatorship, medical apartheid and a society governed by fear, and who chooses love, freedom and democracy. If the bill is passed, Corona is officially in Group A of the Public Health Act. Parliament has then wasted its last chance to withdraw the corona measures without the government's cooperation. Because, of course, the House of Representatives can always submit an initiative proposal, but then it will depend on the government's cooperation to bring it into force. We now know that under the guise of public health, the government considers everything fair. Demissionary Minister Hugo de Jonge was at WNL on Sunday last month. He just literally said that if he finds it necessary not to comply with the law, he also does not comply with the law and that he then finds unlawful action lawful. I see him turning his back on me, but these are statements that directly undermine our rule of law. Our rule of law has one fundamental principle, namely that all public power is based on legislation. It is not possible for the Minister to say that in times of crisis the law no longer applies if the Minister considers it necessary. There is nowhere in the law: "This law applies only if the minister considers it necessary. If the Minister considers it necessary, he may depart from this." No! The law also applies at the time of crises. Provisions have been made in the law for emergency measures at the time of crises. Then the Minister could have just declared a state of emergency. It could have been. But I do know why that didn't happen. On the basis of the Constitution, the state of emergency may be lifted by parliament at any time. This does not apply to the authorisation law that has been printed through it. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is also good news: if this bill is rejected, the foundation will be removed from all freedom-limiting corona measures. Then we are rid of the quarantine obligations, the one-and-a-half meter company, the maximum group sizes, the professional bans, the cough screens, the mouth caps, the face shields, the access tests, the forced experimental gene therapy, the fear of counseling, the QR codes and the madness that has been controlling our lives for far too long. Mr. Chairman. If this bill is rejected, the Netherlands will be free again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you. I should like to begin by distanceing myself from the words that have just been used, such as 'wir haben es nicht wussed'. These are references to Nazi Germany, persecution of Jews and the terrible holocaust. I am a colleague of the Members of the Forum, but I would just like to say that I find it really disgusting that this is happening here. Having said that, I'd like to begin. Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens of the Netherlands and people in the public gallery. Today we are talking about an amendment to the Public Health Act. That law applies to everyone. That law also applies to the people of the parties who are not here tonight, because, like me, they sometimes have to admit that I do not want to be a decor piece on a show by another party. This afternoon, a colleague of GroenLinks walked away from the debate on the return of ISIS women, protesting against the choice of a member of staff and a decision by an independent president not to whistle back this Member of Parliament. Of course, every MP decides whether he or she wants to be with something. Members of the Forum are not regularly present in debates or leave a debate for what it is, once their input is made on a camera. We can't like any of that, but it's up to Members of Parliament to make their own choices. Everyone makes their own considerations. Tonight there is one advantage: it is wonderfully quiet with the interruptions and the Minister can reply soon. Having said that, however, we are elected representatives of the people with responsibility for the laws that are being presented here. So we want to know what's going on. We want our citizens to know what is going on. That's why we're here, at least me. This law made COVID-19 an infectious disease belonging to Group A. So that's the same category as smallpox and polio. In the first place, this resulted in the statutory reporting of the disease. If a doctor suspects or detects COVID-19 in a person, he should report it directly to the Municipal Health Service. The Municipal Health Service reports this directly to the RIVM. So far it doesn't sound far-reaching, but then comes the next step. The chairman of the security region will then be given the power to isolate infected, or suspectedly infected, persons. This should be done in cooperation with the GGD. Anything to prevent the virus from spreading. This is a very far-reaching competence. After all, any citizen can be taken off the streets by the government if he suspects COVID-19 and locked up until further notice. In fact, the government has the power to force people to investigate infection A-diseases. And the government can, what no other obliged disease can do, keep people in quarantine under medical supervision. Thirdly, the Minister for Medical Care will be responsible for the management of the control of this disease by identifying this infectious disease as belonging to Group A. The individual measures, such as isolation and forced investigation, shall be applied, if necessary, by the Chairman of the Security Region, together with the GGD. Although we have not seen people arrested and placed in isolation, the measures actually had the same effect for some sections of the population. Residents of nursing homes, for example, were closed off for months from their neighbors and vice versa. We know the poignant stories of old people who have been together for 70 years and who have been separated from each other. Crying adult people in the window of their dementing mother, who didn't understand why daughter or son didn't come in. Back to the beginning. Minister Bruins informed the House of Representatives on 22 January 2020 about an outbreak of a new corona virus in the Chinese city of Wuhan. Minister Bruins then wrote that the virus did not seem to be easily transmitted from man to man. On 23 January RIVM is more busy warning for air pollution from wood stoves. On 23 January, at 9:31 a.m., the RIVM webcare employee writes the following on Twitter. "The disease, with what is now known, does not seem very contagious. In China, not many patients' relatives have become ill and therefore it seems that the disease is not easily transmitted from human to human." On January 24th at 15.39 p.m., the same employee of the RIVM writes this, on a question from a citizen who points out to RIVM Chinese reports that the covid virus is highly contagious. "Hi John, we are in close contact with other agencies, such as the World Health Organisation, the WHO, and ECDC. The disease, with what is now known, does not seem very contagious." On the same day, the OMT meets in the Netherlands, due to warnings from the World Health Organisation. Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens. This law was adopted four days later, on 28 January 2020. That was a month before the first infection in the Netherlands. Mind you, classification in group A is a very serious procedure. For the sake of clarity, the plague, tuberculosis, cholera, paratyphoid and malaria are all in groups with less severe measures. What makes it possible for COVID-19 to be placed in group A, while four days before that, nothing seemed to be going on? What did the cabinet already know, what we citizens were not told, I ask the Minister. Can the Minister take us all the way along in all the steps taken between 22 and 28 January and in the question why? Why did an innocent, non-infectious virus, of which people hardly got sick, refer to the words of the RIVM on January 23rd, grow into an A-status disease in four days? What wasn't told us at that time? Mr. Chairman. We're almost a year and a half away. We are having a debate here today, now that the smoke clouds of the burning fire called COVID-19 seem to have been raised. However, we are relaxing the measures, but are already being prepared for the delta variant. Anyway, the Netherlands had to go into a lockdown. That wasn't so much because you could get sick, but because the pressure on the care shouldn't rise. In the meantime, care capacity is still not expanded. The healthcare sector is exhausted. Aid workers like policemen happen to speak to me last night here at the door, and they're still under a lot of pressure. That is not only because they are the target of much aggression, during protests or by people who are frustrated or afraid during a lockdown, but also because they have had to help dying people out of their homes. These are traumatic experiences that continue to burn on the retina of our aid workers and care staff. Meanwhile, many entrepreneurs andzzp'ers are too rich to starve and too poor to live. It is logical that the House of Representatives, the representatives of the people, from its task of controlling the government, should hold a debate here to get the bottom line or to at least get the information to learn from it to prevent future victims, victims of infectious diseases and victims of the measures taken in the event of an infectious disease. The meeting of the Permanent Committee for Health, Welfare and Sport of 9 June 2021 discussed the treatment of this law. At that time, the Committee decided to ask the Minister to send the Chamber as soon as possible to reply to the written questions put by Mr Baudet on the justification of the restrictions on freedom to combat the corona virus, submitted on 21 September 2020. These questions dealt with, among other things, why COOVID-19 is classified in Group A. These questions have still not been answered. The question to the Minister is: why not? It is, of course, scandalous that people's representatives have had to wait more than nine months and one week for an answer to a perfectly normal question. That can't be called a happy expectation anymore. In a pregnancy, the hospitalization would be close by now. Then the childbirth is initiated. When is the Minister going to deliver the answers? Dear citizens of the Netherlands, we must face the fact that viruses, and therefore COOVID-19, will always remain among us, just as flu has become part of our lives. On this basis, the cabinet must act and develop long-term policies that respect the freedom, health and social link between people in the Netherlands. As far as BBB is concerned, the cabinet is developing a long-term vision of a society with viruses that can have a social impact, such as COVID-19. Taking interim measures and then scaling them down gives great uncertainty, is detrimental to mental health, causes unrest and ambiguity, deprives freedoms and is bad for the economy. Finally, Mr President. We say it once more here: scaling up the concern for research into a treatment of viruses is essential. Protection of staff in nursing homes, care centres, hospitals, etc. has the highest priority in long-term policy. This applies not only to care workers, but also to cleaning staff. And yes, the structural reward of these working citizens must now be given the attention it deserves. So stop the cow business with the House of Representatives about a promised bonus and keep the promises. Don't clap, just rap! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but I would like to say that I agree with the words you started with. Mr. Van Meijeren, of course you're talking about your own words, but I think the link to World War II is inappropriate. I would like to say something about this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u7	I can say a few words about this for a short time now that I see that there is so much fuss about it. Of course, I am not comparing the situation at issue today with the horrors caused by the Jews in World War II. The current situation is far from that. But I see strong similarities within the meaning of the authorisation law and certainly also the medical apartheid that has now been introduced. Of course, those horrors of the Second World War were not realized overnight either. At the moment when populations were excluded from certain parts of social life, someone should have been standing on the table right away and banging his fist on the table. He should have said, "Here and no further." If we accept that a state of medical apartheid is being created here in this country, whereby some citizens no longer have access to parts of social life on the basis of their health data, then I will continue to oppose it in the strongest possible terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u9	My answer to that is very simple: just say what you are saying in your speech. Then why do you use a phrase like "wir haben es nicht wussed"? That's just a conscious action! That's just stinging towards World War II. You now explain what you mean, and I can or cannot agree with that. You are requesting 60 minutes of speaking time. Then ask 65 minutes to do this sentence. You don't have to do this. You don't have to say "wir haben es cousin kissed." There's really no need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u11	I'm talking about my own words, as I said. I think that this comparison is quite right. As my colleague has said before, a comparison is not a parable. There is a war in this Chamber on all sides and in many events. After the less-less-pronunciation there were also all kinds of MPs who called the war. I see now the most far-reaching fundamental rights restrictions and discrimination since the Second World War. I'll make that equation. How this comparison is then completed, you have done it wrong. So I'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you. Then I'll give it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u13	Well, one last reaction. I sometimes see people beating people up on the street, but then I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Jewish people are deep in my heart. Although I understand that Mr Van Meijeren has deep frustrations when it comes to corona, what he says hurts a lot when he talks about "wir haben es nicht kissed." So many families have been evicted and destroyed! They have not even been able to have children or grandchildren who have been through what we have been through. Mr. Chairman. I will defend Mr Van Meijeren's freedom of speech here to fire and sword, but this really hurts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The shaky legal basis on which the corona measures are based does not deserve a beauty prize. The Public Health Act failed in terms of powers, the emergency regulations were clinging to our fundamental rights and enforcement was problematic. The present bill concerns that Corona has been identified by our country as an A disease since 28 January 2020, the most severe category known to the Public Health Act, which allowed heavy measures to be taken. In itself, I can understand that if I go back to the festivals of 2019 and 2020, every day I searched on social media for what was going on in China, Wuhan. Men went into white suit offices to disinfect them with big horns. Even streets were disinfected by trucks that drove six side by side. People were dragged out of their homes and taken away in cage cars. On the street, the temperature was measured, and whoever had an increase was removed. As soon as these images appeared on social media, so quickly they were censored away. Even vloggers have disappeared. It didn't let go of me. With friends we talked about whether we were going to New York in May 2020. I said no more planes. Instantly I was said to be crazy, but not by my girlfriend, who now also ruined the internet day and night and saw that this was a killer virus or not at any time very, very big. More and more people did what we did and more and more people saw the images disappear. In the Netherlands, with our government, that urgency was in any case not felt according to the public documents. It was written in letters to the Chamber of 25 January 2020 and even from 25 February 2020 that the likelihood of corona spreading in our country was low. Not even when the virus had reached Europe long and wide. Corona exploded at the end of February in the carnival celebrating south of our country, where people were celebrating hosting party in closed, poorly ventilated spaces, because it was cold outside. However, the first corona case was formally confirmed on 27 February 2020. Brabant and Limburg were badly hit. Hospitals were flooded with breath-snatching patients. It was not until 9 March 2020 that the first corona measures were announced. At that moment, our government thought we could control the virus if we stopped shaking hands and washed our hands more often. That turned out to be rather naive, all the more so because on February 20, China had already informed the world that the corona virus is spreading via aerogenic transmission, by breathing in each other's breath. In the meantime, the World Health Organisation and the American CDC share this view, but we have never heard of it in a press conference. Mr. Chairman. My question is: how did the OMT, which was founded on 24 January 2020 and wrote in public documents that they considered the risk of an outbreak to be small, then on 27 January 2020 to consider COVID-19 an A disease? Then why did the government take that advice? I would like to hear whether, apart from this letter from the OMT to the government, there has been more correspondence on this matter between the OMT and the government. If so, I would like to receive it, because I want to be able to review it as a Member of Parliament from the point of view of my control. And I do not need to make a Wob request for this, because, on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, I have the right to request it. That's why I'm doing it here. The qualification as A-disease was based on a ministerial arrangement. Such an arrangement is possible as a matter of urgency under Article 20 of the Public Health Act. Subsequently, the current bill for the incorporation of the scheme came to the Chamber within the prescribed time limit, on 20 February 2020. Isn't it a little weird that we're just dealing with this bill now? Of course, as long as parliamentary treatment continues, the regulation remains in force and there is no time limit, but that does not, of course, deserve the beauty prize. And who can I actually ask this question to? To you, Mr. Chairman? The question of whether the coronavirus belongs to the A category is difficult to answer as far as the PVV fraction is concerned. Corona's mortality rate is very low, but it is very disruptive, because too many people in respiratory distress worldwide have made acute calls and are still in hospital care in their country and therefore far-reaching freedom-limiting measures have been taken to reduce it. I would like to hear from the Minister whether disruption is the justification for an A category. Finally, I can imagine that the Public Health Act will be reviewed again, because in this corona epidemic several additional arrangements were necessary. I'm surprised. Apparently, we couldn't imagine a crisis like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mrs Agema. The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me echo your words and the words of Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Agema, in which they strongly distance themselves from the references to World War II. Because they are nauseating, sure, but they never do justice to the present and they never do justice to the past at all. In any case, I had great difficulty with the input of the Forum for Democracy, not to withdraw from it immediately with firm words. If that type of statement is made, claims that are harmful to reality, suspect science, etc., then you are faced with the dilemma of ignoring it, especially not to give it a stage, or that you have to respond to it, because nonsense that is dangerous simply cannot remain undisputed. Look, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but of course not on their own facts. I refer to the denial of the seriousness and consequences of the virus, which has kept us in the grip for over a year and a half, denying the need to take measures and suspect vaccination as a way out of the crisis. If that type of idea takes root, it is a direct danger to public health. Without going into that further, I wanted to mark it in the front. Mr. Chairman. We are here tonight for a very technical debate. It is about adding COVID-19 as an A disease within the meaning of the Public Health Act. The designation of COVID-19 as an A disease has actually already taken place under the ministerial regulation of 28 January 2020, on the advice of the OMT. That was an OMT opinion of January 27th. As of 28 January 2020, COVID-19 obtained the legal status of an A disease on the basis of the Wpg. The identification of such an A-disease has to do with three aspects. The first is whether national direction is necessary by the VWS Minister and through the implementation, through the chairman of the security regions. That's only the case with an A disease. Two is whether there is a reporting obligation. In the case of an A disease, the infection must be reported to the GGD without delay and this must be communicated without delay to the RIVM, the chairman of the security region and the mayor of the place of residence of the person concerned. Three are the measures that can be imposed to protect public health: a temporary occupational ban, a forced investigation, isolation and quarantine. They're only possible with an A disease. In the case of a B1, B2 or C disease, there are other powers and the direction has been taken to the mayor in order to combat an epidemic of an infectious disease. And that COOVID-19 is an A disease and therefore that this legislative amendment is a necessary one, there can be no doubt about that. Over the last year and a half everyone has witnessed the consequences of this disease in the Netherlands and worldwide, in numbers of patients and deceased, in the overload of care and in social disruption. Well, then the procedure. The OMT advised on 29 January 2020 to make COVID-19 subject to reporting as A disease. This opinion was endorsed by the BAO on 28 January. In the BAO, the GGDs and the security regions are represented. On the same day the appointment was regulated by ministerial rules and this arrangement entered into force immediately. The Wpg provides for this rapid procedure as the importance of public health progresses. The Wpg then prescribes that, within eight weeks, a bill for the incorporation of that legislation is sent to the Chamber. The aim of the bill is to include COOVID-19 in the list of the diseases of Group A in Article 1. This legal obligation has been met, in good time, with the submission of the legislative proposal on 20 February 2020. The fact that the bill stopped after that doesn't deserve the beauty prize. I believe that those were the words of Mrs Agema and I am happy to take them over. You could have done that a long time ago. A report has been submitted, and that has remained for a while. There has been no note on the report for a while. On 12 May last, the procedural meeting sent a report, followed by a letter dated 17 May. On 27 May, ten days after that official request, the note was submitted in response to the report. In short, on the cabinet side, it has been forgotten to send the note on the report and on the side of the Chamber there has never been any repeat of it. Is that a bad thing that the bill stopped? No, because there is no material meaning. But it doesn't deserve the beauty prize. If a legislative proposal is to be considered, a note should simply be sent following the report. The designation of COVID-19 as A disease has simply been done by ministerial regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you. A question from Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u19	Yes, thank you. I just heard the Minister say that the legal obligation of Article 20, fourth paragraph, of the Public Health Act has been fulfilled to send that bill to the Chamber within eight weeks. Does the Minister recognise that Article 20, fourth paragraph, of the Public Health Act also obliges that bill to be dealt with as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u20	No. The law requires that a bill be submitted after the ministerial arrangement has come into force. That bill was submitted on 20 February. There was then a report and that report should have been taken up in response to the report so that the Chamber could take that bill further into consideration. The cabinet didn't do that, left it too long. That doesn't deserve the beauty prize. But also the Chamber has never reappeared about that again. On its own, of course, that is understandable, because we debated about weekly. So about the need to see corona as A-disease, really never, ever, ever doubted anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u21	The Minister obviously has not taken note of parliamentary history, which clearly shows that it is necessary under Article 20, fourth paragraph, of the Public Health Act to deal with that bill as soon as possible. That is even included in the preamble to the legislative proposal. Take a look at this. I'm sure you have the bill in front of you. So if you take the recital, you'll see there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u22	I'd like to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u23	Through the President, I say that it says: 'We have considered that it is necessary to deal with this bill as soon as possible pursuant to Article 20, fourth paragraph, of that Public Health Act.' So it's not enough to send that bill to the Chamber. This is also apparent from parliamentary history, and it is in the preamble. So how can you deny that that obligation has been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u24	The legal obligation is fulfilled. But the following is a bit strange to the input and also to the swollen language of Mr Van Meijeren. If he had considered it so important, if Forum had considered it so important, why is it that there was not even a contribution from Forum to the note on the report or the report from Chamber? At all events, the ministerial arrangement has never been called into question by the Forum. And if Forum has found all this so important, why hasn't a rapple ever been sent from the Chamber before? Then why is it that the Group Chairman of the Forum was the least represented of all the group chairmen in all the corona debates we have had? So it's a little strange to make this a point now if it's never been paid attention to before at all the appropriate times of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mr. Van Meijeren. And yes, we are few people, but let us agree that all speakers may ask about six questions or make comments in total. Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u26	First of all... It is beyond doubt that Forum has certainly found this important. On 21 September 2020, we asked Parliament questions, precisely about this A disease. The Rule of Order provides that those questions should in principle be answered within three weeks. In contrast, the Minister has waited almost a year for this. Moreover, it is very strange that the Minister now implicitly acknowledges that this legal obligation has not been met, and then says: yes, I am sure the Forum does not think it is so important. But it is not relevant at all whether Forum considers that important. It is relevant that the legislator has determined that it is necessary. The legislator seems to think it's important. The legislator has decided that Parliament will be involved in this as soon as possible. So it is not relevant at all whether Forum thinks this is important or not and whether we have often relied on it. The legislator has imposed a legal obligation and the Minister has not complied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u27	The Minister has complied, because the Minister has indeed submitted the bill. A report has been submitted to that effect. Two groups participated, namely the VVD and the SP. Forum didn't participate. This is how important Forum thought this point was, apparently, last year. For the rest, I refer to my previous reply, Mr President. I'm gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mrs Agema had also asked me a question about the process. Maybe I can answer that right away. I understand that the bill was sent to the Chamber by the end of May. The committee then indicated, immediately at the first procedural meeting, that the bill should not be dealt with before the summer recess. And in the course of the proceedings of two weeks ago, the Chamber decided to deal with the bill before the summer recess. So that is the process of the committee and of the Chamber. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u29	I believe that I have answered the procedural questions. BBB asks for a long-term vision of how we relate to the virus that will really stay among us for a while. How do we deal with that? That is, of course, a very, very, very correct question. The only question is whether we can see at this moment when that will be and what might be needed by then. I think we should look at that in a phase-by-step manner. In the letter we discussed recently in the Chamber debate, we looked forward to the autumn. What are the uncertainties for the autumn and how do we relate to them? What measures should we take against this? I also indicated to you that we are working on this and that we will return to you in September in order to further articulate the measures that are further needed. I do not think that we are there yet either, because we are talking about the transition from the epidemic phase to the endemic phase, but I fear that it will really take a while before we actually get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u31	That is quite clear to me, but I specifically mentioned in my contribution a society with viruses that have social impact. We are talking about COVID-19, but in the future, of course, there may also be other types of viruses that also have a social impact and cause diseases. So I'm talking about the broad story: how are we going to deal with it as a society, with a world population that grows to 9 billion people in one piece? So how do we deal with that? So it's going to be broader than just a vision of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u32	Sure. That's what I'm very much in agreement with. We sometimes use the term "pandemic preparedness" for or, in better Dutch, "pandemic preparedness." We also want to bring a vision to your Chamber in the autumn: how do we ensure that we are less overwhelmed, less surprised and better placed to reverse the crisis that is coming? I think that Mrs van der Plas has quite a point to make that anyone who looks ahead and understands zoonoses warns that this really is not the last zoonoses that will get hold of us. We will really have to relate to that, and in a better way than we have done in the past period. Agreed. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Agema of the PVV is asking for correspondence. Mrs Van der Plas actually asked for that too, albeit in a slightly different way. What happened in that first month? Let us be clear, I just mentioned the word "surprised": that has really been the case. Have we had all the awareness of what happened to us from the beginning? The answer is, I think, no. That's the honest answer. Should we have prepared ourselves better? I think that is an answer that should be given with a thorough assessment of the level of preparedness we were ready for the crisis that hit us. I think you should say in all honesty: no, of course we were not sufficiently prepared for that. I think that has become apparent in that first month. If you look at what happened at the end of January... If I take the OMT opinion of 27 January, I see two elements. First of all, of course, the clear advice to refer to this as A disease. Why? Because you needed the measures you had to take, and to be able to take them, it's necessary to label a disease as A disease. That's what it's like, actually. Next, the OMT stresses that there is still a lot of scientific uncertainty about epidemiology, about severity and about the transfer. The increase in the number of cases in China and the occurrence of cases outside national borders give rise to advice on additional measures. And, then, it says, "it has to be taken into account that the advice in the coming period is likely to be adapted often by moving insights to give a place to new insights and a changing epidemiology." That's what the score was like at the time. We saw something coming, the OMT saw something coming that required measures. Those measures, which were necessary, justified the A status of the COVID-19 virus. And then tell us exactly how that will happen? We do not know that either, but trust that scientific insights will progress in the near future. This will mean changing opinions. That's how I read the situation of that moment in Hindsight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u33	Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u34	I think that is a very special explanation. It's about naming corona as an A category on January 28th. That's at the time when the OMT and the RIVM actually felt that corona wasn't that exciting. They said: it is not so contagious, the risk of human infection on humans is not so great and the chances of it spreading in the Netherlands are not so great either. Then it is very strange that it is proposed at that time to consider COOVID-19 a disease in the A-category. That was my question. I understand from my... I've been fascinated by what happened in China. That was a completely different reality from what our OMT foretold. Our OMT did not arrive until January 28th this opinion was dated March 9th with "do not shake hands" and "wash hands." That's weird. I hope the Minister understands that that is strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u35	What I have just quoted is that the OMT itself stresses that there is still much uncertainty, but that it does point to the seriousness and increase of cases in China. It sees this as a reason for measures that can be taken in the Netherlands, which are part of the package associated with an A-disease. It is the OMT itself that at least supports that and then says that there is still a lot of uncertainty. It also says that scientific insights will change a lot. I think that Mrs Agema is right to ask whether we have had an early enough retina, together with RIVM, the OMT and other experts in the Netherlands, and also the VWS Ministry, what the seriousness would be and have acted on it. I think that is an excellent question to be evaluated by an independent party. That is why we have asked the Safety Research Council, the OVV, to evaluate the crisis, its approach, its preparation and so on. It is important to do so independently, so as to draw the lessons that can be drawn for another pandemic as openly and transparently as possible. And then I'll be back on the premises that Mrs Van der Plas just gave me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u36	I don't think it's such a good story anyway. The Minister suggests as if the OMT at that time thought that there was some sort of sliding scale or kick of things that could still be coming, that there was some sort of moving insight into the OMT, that perhaps further measures should have been taken later and that therefore there should have been an A-category disease. But that's not what's shared with us when it comes to the essence of this story. That's the character of corona. About the character of corona, we OMT and the RIVM said at that time that it was not so contagious, that the likelihood of human infection on humans was not so great, that the chances of spreading in our country or an outbreak were not very good. To this day, they have denied aerogenic transmission when it comes to the character of corona for a long time. And now they say, yes, it can also be done via aerogenic transmission. As far as the character of corona is concerned, in January, when the A-category opinion was issued, they made a character sketch in which they actively communicated that they thought that it would not be so rapid. And then there is actually no sliding scale or stairs. Then it's just really weird, like I said. That is why I would like the correspondence that has been between the OMT and the government. I would like to receive it because I do not have to make a Wob request as a Member of Parliament, because I am entitled to it under Article 68 of the Constitution. I would like to know, apart from the OMT's letter to government, whether there is any other correspondence that could explain why the OMT wanted a category A status, apart from this character sketch that was so limp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u37	First about the sketch of the severity of the virus back then. If you do read back with the eyes of now or later what happened in March, you think that in those first sketches it seems much less serious than what actually happened in the Netherlands. I recognize that in what Mrs. Agema says. But it's actually the OMT itself that points to that. It says in that advice to arrive at that indication of corona as A disease that there is still a lot of uncertainty and that scientific insights will change quickly and that this means that they will also quickly come to changing insights. Nevertheless, they seem to consider the seriousness to be such that they advise unfrozen to go into an A-disease. That was not a correspondence that was left out of the picture, but that was just a public OMT advice to the cabinet. The Wob documents for the month of January have already been made public; you know that we are doing this on a stage-by-stage basis. I am committed to all correspondence, if any, given a number of obstacles that exist in the interests of the State. If there's anything we can do, we'll make all the documents public, because it's necessary to learn from them. I'd like to send you everything that's been made public in that month. And when it is made public in the next month, I would, of course, like to send it to you, because everything, but really everything, must be public so that we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u38	I don't want that at all. I don't want to have to get in my uppie and get in the middle of millions of pieces. I specifically ask about the January correspondence between the OMT and the government on category A status.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u39	But you do. That is simply the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u40	You're saying there's no correspondence in January about the category A status between the OMT and the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u41	The OMT opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u42	Because it's a very strange contradiction that's in here, isn't it? The OMT says "it's not very contagious," "not so human to man," "no, aerogenic transmission is not going on either," "the risk of an outbreak is not really great either." But it is category A. That's a very strange discrepancy. Is there more correspondence than the Chambers and other than the OMT advice we have? If the Minister now says "there isn't," I believe him. That's what my job as a Member of Parliament is. But if there is, I want it. 'Cause I want to be able to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u43	Yes. I understand what Mrs. Agema is saying. You're right, too. As a Member of Parliament, you should not depend on digging a cube paper. That's right. Over the whole period we have collected some 2.8 million documents. That is indeed an impressive batch of pieces. Don't even think about having to read them all. What you want to know is very much focused on this A-disease. What I am now aware of and what was known to me at the time is: the OMT advises to come up with an A-disease. There's something in there that makes you say: on the one hand you didn't actually see the OMT stirring the drum as much as it was about the enormous severity of that virus at the time, but on the other hand it does advise you to get to that A disease. I can see why you're pointing that out. That is what the OMT calls itself, and that is what I would point out by saying: the scientific insights will change. I think it would be wise to discuss the following with Mrs Agema. The most important thing is the OMT opinion. You already have. I am thinking of everything that went out in the context of the Wob: if there are any other documents surrounding that A status, then I would be happy to send it to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u44	I thank the Minister for this commitment. It is therefore a question of correspondence between the OMT, the RIVM and the government. Does the Minister have any idea of the time limit on which we could receive it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u45	If that is not a very urgent matter, I would like to take a few weeks, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u46	Yeah, I'm fine with that. No, it has to be more concrete. "Several weeks" can't be, because 50 weeks is also a number of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u47	Let me say that we are going to take less time than on the note on the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u48	September?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u49	September's good. Yeah, sure. This brings me to the end of the reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u50	There is another question from Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u51	I have just heard the Minister say that there is no doubt whatsoever that corona should have absolute A status and that measures are necessary. But how does the Minister explain the following? In the United States, all measures have been lifted in many states, for example in Florida and Texas. There, life is just back to normal. Vaccination certificates and so on are even prohibited. It's nice again on the street and stadiums are full. If, in the Minister's view, the virus is so incredibly dangerous, how can we see the epidemiological situation in those states not be very different from that in some neighbouring states which still have the hardest lockdowns, while vaccination rates are the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u52	It's such an alienating sensation. We are seriously talking about the severity of a virus that, according to the CBS, has caused some 30,000 deaths in the Netherlands over the last year and a half. And with the reference to the United States? I think that the number of deaths per capita in the United States is about double. Society has been disrupted in the last year and a half. The virus has caused so much grief, directly because of the health damage it has caused and because of all the measures we had to take against it, that even wanting to engage in the discussion about the severity of the virus puts you out of reality. Yes, Mr President, should we really have this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u53	Yeah, I'd love to. Otherwise I would not ask this question, and I do not yet have the beginning of an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u54	Well, I'd say read the paper or read all the letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u55	I read in the newspaper that in those states the measures have been lifted, because the governors in question are simply done. They will say, "We were wrong. The virus is far less dangerous than previously thought. We're gonna stop this madness. As of tomorrow, no more mouth caps, no more test certificates, no more corona passports. We'll just go back to the order of the day." And what does it turn out to be? This has no negative effects at all on the whole situation there in hospitals. The course of the virus goes exactly the same as in nearby states where they have very different policies, where they use the Hugo the Young model, with the most heavy lockdowns. How does the Minister explain this difference? Indeed, I would very much like to enter into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u56	I am referring to the stacks of letters we have sent on this matter over the past year and to all the debates we have had with the Chamber on this subject, with the group chairman of the Forum for Democracy not rarely missing. And what Mr Van Meijeren is bringing in here simply fits in with the best tradition that Forum has been pursuing for some time now, namely denying the virus, denying the seriousness and the need to take measures, and suspecting vaccination as a way out of the crisis. In doing so, the view expressed by Mr Van Meijeren is simply a danger to public health. I can't see it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u57	I'm gonna try again. Could the Minister just answer my question? How does the Minister explain that, in the states I mention, there are no adverse consequences of lifting all measures at once? Those governors just say it's not as dangerous as we thought in advance. The Minister said at first: no, we should not want to engage in this debate. He made all kinds of emotional remarks about that. In the second answer he referred to all kinds of letters. Well, I've studied them all and this situation has never been addressed. And we have been present at all the corona debates, so that is the greatest possible nonsense. I'm using my last interruption now. Can the Minister just answer the question, which I am now asking for the third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u58	For example, I believe that the severity of a virus can be derived from the number of deaths caused by a virus. According to the CBS there are about 30,000 in the Netherlands. That is the over-death rate in the Netherlands. In America, it is estimated that this is double per capita. We now regret hundreds of millions of deaths worldwide. That's something to be very serious about. And if you want to deny the millions of deaths worldwide... Excuse me. I just said "hundreds of millions dead," but I'm correcting myself. If you want to deny the millions of deaths and the hundreds of millions of sick people who have caused it, then you have really come to the wrong place with me. Over the last year and a half, and indeed many of me in the front line of the crisis, I have done everything possible to limit human health damage. And you did everything you could to deny the seriousness of the virus. That's the big difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u59	Your last question, Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u60	I am not denying that millions have died worldwide and perhaps hundreds of thousands in the United States. I only note that millions of people die every year worldwide and hundreds of thousands in the United States, and that, in retrospect, the virus did not turn out to be as dangerous as it was supposed to be. So I'm not denying there's a virus. Those are all of those references to World War II. Then we had Holocaust connoisseurs, now we have virus deniers. These are disgusting equations, of which I get a very nasty taste in my mouth. But I note that the Minister is not answering my question. This only confirms my suspicion that the Minister does not wish to enter into the debate on the justification of the restrictions on freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u61	I would like to refer to the letters I have sent, of which you have apparently not read or understood one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u62	This brings us to the end of the first term of office and of the Minister. Is there a need for a second term? Mrs Agema does not, neither does Mrs Van der Plas, nor does Mr Van Meijeren, I understand. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-13.u63	We're going to vote on the bill on Tuesday. I will close this meeting, but not without thanking the people in the public gallery and any viewers at home. I thank the Minister, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
