ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the first term of the government's budgetary treatment of Kingdom relations. A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. Yesterday we had the first term of office and we listened to all the questions and comments made by the various Members. It is now up to the Secretary of State to answer that. I propose that we make five interruptions or five comments per group. For example, we are going through this budget debate briefly and pointlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Members for their input in the first term. A special congratulation to Mrs Wuite, who not only addressed a very important subject with her maiden speech, but also made the beautiful connection to her own history, her mission and her conviction. I also found it an example, let me say this here, for the way in which all the members of the Committee on Kingdom Relations were or were involved, once they have been in these parts of the Kingdom, with this important subject. That may well get more attention, we can also say here. In all the business we are about to discuss, including in response to the questions raised by the Chamber, it is good to take account of the fact that it is not just about finance or the rule of law, but, as Mr Ceder rightly pointed out, the budget is also a moral document, a moral compass for which you want to go. I can wholeheartedly endorse that. Ultimately, this budget, which consists mainly of fine sentences and figures, is about trying to do the good things within the Kingdom for the people who live there. That has always been my motivation and your motivation, I know. I believe that this should also be brought to the fore in this debate. At least I heard that clearly yesterday. The people in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in particular, I am talking about the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom of Belgium, which everyone wants: a future for themselves, security of existence and a future for their children. We in this political arena are those who can come up with answers to the problems that exist and actually help them to take steps forward. Recently, the Committee on Kingdom Relations visited the IPKO in Bonaire. I understood it was the first time for some people. For others, who had been there before, it was no surprise. But especially the visits that have been made there have made a great deal of impression, as have the talks that have been held with parliamentarians and representatives from other parts of the Kingdom, as well as the hospitality, warmth and kindness that you find on the islands. That's my experience, too. I got into this wallet uninhibited at the time. I've said it before: we want to talk a lot about file and business, but the moment you get on with it, it's about people in the end. If we have problems around procedures that take too long, about conflicts that exist or about poaching, then I would rather ask myself: why do we do this, why do we have to put so much pressure on this? Because we want the deadline given to us to be a maximum of four years, we actually get things done. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to say that, on the basis of cubes, I know that you are very charmed by this, and that the Chamber will answer the questions that have been put to me. First of all, I would like to say something about the relations within the Kingdom, then about the subject of poverty, which all Members have talked about, then about sustainability/climate, then about the country packages, then about human rights and finally about the administrative intervention on Saint-Eustatius. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. Some of these questions were answered in writing this afternoon in a letter to the Chamber. Many questions lie in areas for which colleagues in the cabinet bear the ministerial responsibility. Then I come straight to Mrs De Vries and Mrs Van den Berg's question: what about coordinating powers? How's that been lately? Can I reflect on that? You know, I was given this coordinating power at the time when I was appointed and in the constituent deliberations, but that does not replace the ministerial responsibility that all colleagues in the cabinet have for their departments. These departments, especially in the Caribbean Netherlands, are primarily responsible for carrying out the tasks in their field. The question of whether the BZK executive should be given more powers is, of course, a question that lies before a new cabinet. I have some thoughts about that. I don't feel limited to reflecting on that here either. But of course, you always touch the ministerial responsibility. You can't lift it, because then you get a whole different system. In recent years, I have seen that we have started a lot in the meantime to give greater form and strength to this coordinating power, by coordinating on the front with departments on matters of interest to the islands. There was an extra dynamic through the hurricane on the Upper Wind Islands and through the covid situation. That has only intensified this cooperation. We have made this financial flow more transparent at the request of the Chamber when we are accountable to the Chamber. See Annex 6 to budget chapter IV. I myself am very pleased that this has happened. This makes it very clear and transparent to see what the various efforts have been aimed at. Of course, there is also criticism. There is criticism from the General Court, namely that there are a lot of special benefits. The Court also wonders about this free allowance and the relationship between special and free benefits. I am not concealing the fact that there really are still improvements, including my own. Trials have also been set in motion for this. We are now looking very concretely, also in the light of the report of the General Court, to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Special Benefits to coordinate and organise these flows of money so that we know what we are doing. My experience over the last four years is that it never went wrong with the good intentions, but you also want to avoid administrative pressure. You want to prevent all those departments or "the towers of The Hague," as Mr Van Raak used to call them, from creating such administrative pressures that people no longer get their work done. I also see that the departments of trade, other than the BZK, have shown greater involvement in what is happening on the islands, in all fields of expertise. I think that's a good thing, and that's a difference from four years ago. We have managed this well in a consultation of the Director-Generals, but we have also had intensive discussions on this at colleagues' level. It'll pay off. I'm not saying we're already here, because I think you can always improve things. But compared to four years ago, I think we really took steps in that direction. This applies, of course, primarily to the Caribbean Netherlands. There are, of course, different relationships between the Caribbean countries. It is mainly through my administrative position, through the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and, of course, through the departments that carry out national tasks, such as Foreign Affairs and Defence. Mr. Chairman. Looking back to 2010, we did so last year; in the case of the 2021 budget that was on the agenda, you can see that this cooperation and the way we work with each other are much more intensive if that was imagined at the time. The idea at 10-10-10 was that these three autonomous countries and three special municipalities, the public bodies, would be much more on their own. Today's reality is that we are working much more closely together, also because of the crises that have happened to us. You could also say that we depend on each other, but that's too negative. I also see the positive side of it. We are actually implementing the Statute as it is intended, namely to assist each other, even in times when it is difficult. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the past year and what has happened, then we can only conclude that it was an eventful year around covid. It has been said before: the islands have been disproportionately affected because they are so dependent on tourism, which, of course, was virtually stationary. Not only the financial consequences, but also the social consequences were enormous. We are looking forward to this budget for a year in which we hope that there will be a new perspective, that the economy will attract again, that people will get jobs again, that there will be income again and that people will have security of living. Ms Simons asked whether the needs of the islands were also adequately reflected in the 2022 budget. With regard to public bodies, I can say that there has been frequent contact with those public bodies to see how we can support them in the tasks they have. From this place, too, I express my appreciation for what those relatively small public bodies have done for work. Together with the Dutch Caribbean Office and with all the support packages designed for the islands, we have managed to ensure that those who no longer had income and whose companies could no longer function normally, still by means of these support packages were given some sort of bridging. That is important, not only because they were given the bridge, but also because of the principle that I myself am proud that we have managed to do so, that we have said: everything that is happening in the European Netherlands, we also want to apply mutatis mutandis to the Caribbean Netherlands. If we say that we are equal within the Netherlands, we are at a great distance from each other, we must also treat the people there as we treat the people here in the European Netherlands. I would also like to take this opportunity to reflect on Mrs Simons' comments on our common past. If you take the map of the world with the aim of dividing the world into some sort of obvious stately contexts, it is indeed very special to see that there are 8,000 to 9,000 kilometres apart areas where people who belong to one Kingdom and yet have a shared history, while those areas are so far apart and also Upper Winds and Lower Winds are scattered. You don't make that up. That was created on the basis of a history we have with each other. You can only understand that constellation from history. It's a history that brought us together and, unfortunately, also has ink black pages. We have to face that past here. At the same time, that past should not be a sta-in-the-way for the things we want to do together in the future. Above all, we must look forward to the shared opportunities we have. This long history of colonialism brings with it an expensive duty, a destiny connection, a responsibility and a duty towards those who want the best for themselves, their children and the island where they live. I would also like to emphasise that the colonial page in our history did not change until 2010. That happened much earlier, in the years after the Second World War. Then there was a state-law result in the form of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which meant that the decolonisation process was almost completed. It was legally completed, not socially and emotionally. It took years before some sort of emancipation movement came into being that dealt with the aftermath of the colonial period and ensured that the fruits of citizenship fell to all the inhabitants of the Caribbean islands. 10-10-10. It has been said before: it is a very striking moment in history. It has also been an important event on the path of island self-determination. The lifting of the Netherlands Antilles has had a huge impact on the relationship of the islands with the Netherlands. After negotiations Bonaire, Statia and Saba joined the Netherlands. Curaçao and Saint Martin chose autonomy. This is something Aruba had acquired since 1986. This autonomous status is not only an achievement against the background of a colonial past. It has made everyone aware in recent years that it also raises questions about the responsibilities within the Kingdom. Who is responsible for what and who is accountable for what? Autonomy is a nice word on paper, but what good is it if you can't wear it in practice? Mr. Chairman. I'm not from the school myself "let's give them money and they'll figure it out themselves." I want to mean something to the people who live in the Netherlands and the Caribbean countries through sincere commitment. I want to make autonomy sustainable and future-proof and offer people a better future. That's what we should all do it for. I'm gonna keep fighting for that improvement. That is what we owe to the people on the islands who do not feel heard or have not heard enough. But it's not gonna happen by itself. We also owe it to the Dutch people, the people who pay the tax, who must be able to trust that the good things are done with their money. And let me be quite honest: now that we are more dependent on each other than ever, I have just said that the inconvenience in those proportions is all the more apparent. Every once in a while, it's rubbing and squeaking. This is reflected in discussions about autonomy and self-government. Let there be no misunderstanding: it is of course a good thing that we continue to talk about these relations within the Kingdom. There's always room for that. I believe that the Van Raak motion, which was adopted by the Chamber at the time, provides an excellent basis for this. Mrs De Vries asked how this motion and the Bosman motion, which is an extension of it, were implemented. I have previously informed the Chamber that I intend to carry out the Van Raak motion together with the national governments. I have set up an official working group for this purpose. The setting up of this working group has taken longer than we had hoped. The reason for this is that this was not at the top of the list in the middle of the corona crisis, not even of the countries, because it requires capacity. It calls for debates in the parliaments on what this status is now and on what autonomy means now. We are going to organise this within the existing Governmental Legislative Consultation Kingdom Relations. That will meet soon on Bonaire. Both the Dutch delegation members and the delegations from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten will present themes which in their view deserve further clarification or which should be discussed there. I do not want to anticipate these issues. I want to let that trial go. I shall, of course, inform your Chamber of the progress made. I also call on the Chamber to participate in this debate on its own responsibility. At the same time, I have experienced the following in recent years. You know me as someone who generally doesn't turn his heart into a murder pit. I have seen accusations about discrimination, paternalism and neo-colonialism being made in the situations in which it occasionally scrambled and squeaked in the proportions. Let me say this again: in the eyes of the Dutch Government there is no mention of this in any way. We may, of course, differ on matters that are going on, but the situation in the countries in particular is so serious financially, whatever affects the well-being of the inhabitants, that we must continue to talk about this with each other. This is also on the basis of the Staff Regulations adopted in 1954. In it, Queen Wilhelmina strongly stated that it is "supporting on her own strength, but with the will to assist one another." I am thinking, for example, of the Allied war effort that was fueled from Curaçao, which allowed the Allied forces in the Second World War to free us. I am also thinking of the aid that came from the islands when there was a major disaster in the Netherlands in 1953. Once again, it will only succeed if we put our hands on it together, because in the case of autonomy, and in the case of all four countries, the rights and obligations must be shared. Mr. Chairman. I was struck by the remark made by Mrs Simons, who referred in her speech to the resistance fighter Tula. I would very much like to agree with Mrs Simons that Tula's story on freedom and humanity deserves to be told much better; at all, history needs to be told much better in order to understand it. I know the struggle of Tula and his ultimate terrible fate. I was in 2018 together with the King and the Queen and the Prime Minister of Curaçao on the pier where a plaque was unveiled for this hero. I saw how the people present were touched and what it meant that Tula was honored in this way. And that also touched me, because I love the people who stand up for others and want to do the good. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u4	There was a question first from Mrs. Wuite, if she can get away from her phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thanks to the Secretary of State for the very strong introduction, with which...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u6	I need you to turn the microphone on yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u7	Is that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u8	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you for the wise words and the fine introduction of the Secretary of State on the sensitivity and special history of the Kingdom of the Netherlands around the position of the colonies. He was talking about autonomy. I would like to point out that, of course, it is also about freedom, as he mentioned later in the explanatory statement on Tula. My question is, therefore, certainly because the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations has a coordinating role, whether he can reflect on it and believes that a Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations would have a special role to play in addressing this sensitive issue in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u10	Absolutely. First of all, but not only, I'd say. It is a subject that should be discussed widely. I also think that there are no taboos here. You should be able to talk about this. My experience over the last few years has been that this issue has been addressed in many facets. I do not argue in favour of saying 'we always agree', because it is not that simple, we simply disagree sometimes, or we have other interests, but we do not want to influence the debate by saying things about each other that do not show respect. This applies to the side of the Netherlands to the countries and vice versa. In a relationship like a family, as Mrs Van den Berg and her predecessor have said before, we are family within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, you can have conflicts, but they can be solved in a good way. There is no contradiction either, because there is no one who says that the countries should not be autonomous. That is what they are, only: can they do so in practice? My deepest wish would be for us to succeed in getting within the Kingdom four countries that are not only the legal but also practically autonomous, which are not dependent on each other, because nobody wants to be dependent on anything. We all want to have a position in which we can make our decisions in absolute freedom, with respect for international law. Today's practice is that this is not the case, not only because of the crises that have arisen, but also because of weaknesses that have arisen many years before and that have now surfaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u11	Thank you. I mean, it's a little more specific, and that has to do with the colonial past. Does the Secretary of State consider that there is a specific role for him when it comes to those sensitivities, which he himself admitted, especially with the past four years of experience in his pocket? If he were to do it again, or if he were to go on, is there anything else that might give that aspect more attention through and from a Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations? I mean that aspect in a very special sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u12	That's what you're asking me to reflect on my personal experiences. As I pointed out earlier, I entered this portfolio very uninhibited and did not remain a portfolio for me either. It's been kind of a journey over the past four years, past islands and conversations with people who have enriched my image and my experiences, but have also gained more knowledge of our common history. That is what I said just now in response to questions from Mrs Simons. If you know where you come from, what your common history is, however loaded it is, it is a basis to say: we move forward together and we work together towards that future. So don't put it away, don't forget, but treat those you sit at the table with respect. At least that's what I experienced during my visit to the islands. I will not hide the fact that we also had substantive differences of opinion, but it begins with the fact that you respect each other as equal and thus enter into the conversation. I wasn't as sharp as I am right now. I don't know if I would have done it any other way. Maybe with the knowledge of today, but with the knowledge of that time, I think I would have done the same. In the end, it's not about knowing everything and therefore being able to make some sort of ultimate and impeccable judgment. The point is that you're interested in the other person's backgrounds. And that's what's in culture, but that's what's in the fact that ten years of autonomy, especially of Curaçao and Saint Martin, doesn't make everything perfect for the government. We can't even say that in the Netherlands. We have a much longer tradition, but things are not going well with us either. You need to be able to talk to each other about that without getting personal right away. The ideas "deep in those with whom you sit around the table" help to improve the proportions. I have had that experience, and I would also like to pass it on to my successor. But even in an IPKO sometimes things will be said about which people disagree. But do it in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u13	The Secretary of State has already referred to the many special benefits available. We had asked how we could strengthen the position of the Secretary of State in that coordinating function. I understand that this is being looked at by a working group. We have even seen an example on Saba, where we get a one-off benefit to do something about waste, but then we have to find a solution to the structural costs ourselves. Could the Secretary of State perhaps indicate when we can expect something about this and how it is organised with the working group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u14	The most important thing is that we acknowledge that this is something that needs to be improved. So I would not like to place too much mortgage on the issues that are now being worked out. But we all agree. The Court of Auditors' report has made this very clear once again. With all the good intentions, I have also said that it is from all departments... I also appreciate that very positively. This has been very intensive in recent years for all kinds of reasons. There's been some kind of messy arrangement. It's gotta be easier than that. That's just the job: make it simpler and look not only at the occasional, but above all at what it does structurally. Yesterday's debate also mentioned examples of sustainability. Indeed, if you make the right investments, you can really benefit from the structural costs. You need to think about that. In any case, I think that we should not think in the short term, but in the long term, when it comes to the administration of countries or islands. Otherwise, you cannot put the budget in order properly. We must therefore also, from the Netherlands, ensure that we take care of ourselves, especially when it comes to the small islands of Saba and Saint-Eustatius, which are very small and we must ensure that we do as much as possible through the free payment. It can't always be. We also work with specific benefits in the Netherlands. In itself, that is not a problem at all. It's just... the affair is a little out of control. Four years ago, during my first budget debate, I said that for this too, you would have to reward the islands that have it well for each other with more space. That is what we are doing now, for example, with Saba.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u15	Does this mean that this working group is not just looking at those specific benefits where should there be other buttons or where should we make it more structural? But is it also being considered how the Ministry or the Secretary of State is involved in this? Because one of the Court's conclusions was that the Secretary of State gets to hear it in the best case, but is sometimes even surprised. Maybe it's a nice surprise, but at least it's a surprise. So how can we structurally improve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u16	That's kind of the inconvenience there is. A benefit in itself is always positive, from the perspective of the interests I represent, namely those of the islands. But what you are saying is true: that image is not very sharp. One could also think of a system in which this coordinating role implies that everything eventually goes through the BZK, with respect for the ministerial responsibility, but in such a way that there is coordination and overview. That's how you avoid duplications. And you keep holes from falling in other places. Coordinating therefore starts with a good information provision. That's actually the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u17	But the question was how the Chamber could help the Secretary of State to get that organized. Firstly, this is really important for the whole of coordination. The second is that all these special benefits lead to individual administrations on the islands. The administrative burden is therefore enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u18	I never thought that the Chamber was an obstacle to me at this point. On the contrary, the Chamber has always advocated strengthening this coordinating role in recent years. Of course, we still have the ibo-Council of State trajectory running. It's up to a new cabinet to fill that out. Of course, there are all these documents, including statements about what you could do with them. I think you could and should strengthen that position step by step. Of course, the Chamber is primarily concerned with the idea: how can we ensure that the money is spent in a good way? That is also my aim, but it is primarily an organizational issue on the part of the cabinet. And it's up to a new cabinet to work that out, with the experiences we've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u19	Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for sharing his views and his views on a number of things that were said here yesterday in the debate, particularly about this particular and sometimes very complex relationship between the various countries, between the public bodies, between all that binds us as a Kingdom. I haven't been in Curaçao for far too long, but I hope to be able to see the plaque of Tula there with my own eyes soon. Glad the Secretary of State agrees with me that this is a special history that deserves much more appreciation and knowledge, also here in the Netherlands. In the first part of his reply, the Secretary of State referred to answers to written questions. I would like to talk very briefly about this, if I may, because one of the questions BEG1 raised was about whether or not to make the food aid provided by the Red Cross structuralally. In his reply, the Secretary of State says that the Red Cross has stopped and does not want to continue, and that it is now up to the bodies themselves to continue. There is a slight discrepancy between how I understood and what the Secretary of State says. So I'm actually asking for clarification. As I understand it, it is not the Red Cross that does not want to continue these projects, but they cannot do so from an emergency situation. There's only so much you can do as emergency aid. This needs to be supported at some point in time. The Red Cross has worked so efficiently that there is still a nice amount, a few millions, left. They have also submitted the request to the BZK to obtain permission for that amount, and I believe that it is about 3.5 million guilders that are involved in a different allocation, so that it can benefit structural aid. I would very much like an answer to that, because as I understand it, BZK is the party that says: but that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u20	Let me start by saying that I am very pleased that we were able to do business with the Red Cross in this way, because it was a huge crisis. Tens of thousands of families were in trouble. During some of my visits to Curaçao and Aruba I myself saw where that help ended up. That was inhumane, I'd almost say. These were people who were already in a vulnerable situation, but who ended up in a totally hopeless situation as a result of that crisis. So the Red Cross has done a great job there, together with a lot of local NGOs. We would have asked you to use the powers and networks that exist. The Red Cross coordinated that. But the Red Cross has indicated to us that it is an emergency organization. A year after that there may still be a need for this support, but you can no longer call it emergency aid. So what have we agreed with the countries, and also announced in good time? That we would stop funding on 1 October in the form of gifts from these food packages. We have spent a total of EUR 85 million on this in over a year. By the way, by attracting the economy and returning tourists, you can see that the need for emergency aid is decreasing. But if further support is needed, the countries must finance it themselves. This financing can be arranged through the liquidity support packages made available by the Dutch government at 0% interest rate. That's the deal that was made. I have to say that good agreements have been made with the countries on this, but in practice it has not always been easy to transfer data files, for example, and to pass on the voucher systems used by the Red Cross, which were very successful, but that is also up to the countries. We have said: it is really up to the countries how they intend to fill that out. It's up to the countries, you can't say that those countries are all the same, so that they can autonomously determine how they help people who need it; that's what you can imagine. In the Netherlands, for example, people living below the minimum standard of living can call for special assistance. The emergency situation is now over. The financial contribution in the form of donations by the Netherlands has now been terminated. In the end, it is up to the countries to deal with this themselves and to come up with a system that can be the existing system on the basis of which they wish to continue the aid. That is essentially what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thanks for the answer. Now it is true that there is still money left in the pot for the financing that was initially allocated as a gift for emergency aid. The question is very simple: why can't we use that money in such a way that the countries can add it to the pot of structural aid? There is also liquidity support, but every euro counts of course. The people who make use of these special programmes are not the people who take advantage of the moment when tourism is attracting a little bit more slowly. So the question is as follows. There's money left. The Red Cross didn't have to use that. Emergency aid stopped on 1 October. There's still money in that jar. Can we not allow the money that is still in that jar to be used to supplement the structural needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u22	When it was just about the benefit, we already had a discussion about "incidental" and "structural." Now 3 million is a lot of money, but structuralally, of course, it is not much if you look at what has to be done. I think it is right that I should answer this question in a very specific way in the second term, because you have asked a very specific question about this amount and what is left of it at the moment. I don't know. I don't know. I'm gonna have to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u23	I have no further question, but I just want to say that where I said 'golden', it could really be 'euro', but I hope that does not lead to problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u24	It only saves 100%, but we forgive you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u25	We're gonna do a quick math on our own. Mrs. Wuite.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u26	On the same subject. Thank you to the colleague for raising this issue. Is it possible for the Secretary of State to convert the remaining money into a new mission, in particular with regard to disaster response? After all, it is clear that disasters are becoming increasingly important in the region. So you can see that the local and Dutch Red Cross should cooperate with each other much more. Is it therefore possible to give a new mission that focuses on capacity strengthening in particular, so that you can accelerate very quickly at the time of disasters? Can that also be taken into account by the Secretary of State when he comes back to it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u27	I'll be sure to. I can already say that, when it comes to disasters, we have a great deal of experience with the International Red Cross in Saint Martin. I have also recently made a contribution to equipment for the firefighters on St.Maarten in order to do good things in case of hurricanes. That's an occasional benefit. I will also answer your question in the second term. Then I'll get to the second block, Mr. Chairman. It sounds a little disrespectful, but it's about poverty. I think poverty is one of the biggest challenges for the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. As I said before, I've seen what people are going through up close. Often they are at age and have worked their whole lives. I met a 71-year-old painter who said, "I've worked my whole life and now I have to think every day if I'm gonna make it through the day and if I have enough food." That man burst into tears and said, "What can you offer me perspective?" For example, there are a lot of people who have used the food packages. I'm sure you've made the same visit. I have to say, you don't forget those impressions easily. I believe that as politicians here, but also on the other side of the ocean, we have an expensive duty to do everything in our power to combat poverty and inequality, which is also there. The inequality is enormous. Speaking of solidarity: in a civilised country, attention should be paid to these groups. We have initially committed the 85 million for emergency aid, we have created a support and recovery package for the Caribbean Netherlands, similar to that for the European Netherlands, and we have helped entrepreneurs to get through the crisis. But that's not enough. Ultimately, the best perspective that these people can have is that there will be economic development, that there will be less dependence on tourism, that they will be better able to take any blows. The board needs to get organized. The taxes must be collected; I will say something about this in a moment. 'Cause sometimes the money's on the street, but they don't pick it up. Then there is no money to finance education and care. I believe that one of the lessons and assignments within the Kingdom should be that we should address each other, but not just that: we should also help each other, to prevent these people from getting into this situation. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Want als je 71 jaar]] I mean, you've worked your whole life, you've got a not-too-best health, and there's more in a cabin than that. You don't have to ask yourself, who's taking care of me, who's taking care of me? You don't expect that in the Kingdom at first. That's what you expect in other parts of the world, but not in the Kingdom. I think we all have an assignment in that. Mr Kuzu and others have drawn attention to the fact that people in the Caribbean Netherlands are also faced with higher burdens and that incomes are lagging behind accordingly. This is partly due to the small scale of the islands, which makes them particularly vulnerable, but you can see that since 10-10-10 they have not worked on this at full speed; let me put it this way. That also led me to go to the islands with Secretary of State Van Ark at the time and show her what was going on. I have said it before and I say it again: compliments for her, for how she picked it up and for what she did with it. In the various debates in the Chamber, which were constantly working on this, she said that we want to make the minimum standard of living better step by step, to raise the social minimum and to raise incomes. That's important. If that perspective exists for people who cannot work and who do have to provide for their livelihood, then you can make sure that deep poverty can disappear. You saw that poverty when you were visiting with the IPKO. Mrs Kuik rightly mentioned this in her contribution. You have to make those improvements step by step. Steps have therefore been taken: the disability allowance has been increased to the statutory minimum wage, a supplement has been introduced for AOW beneficiaries with an income below the statutory minimum wage, and family allowances have been increased to almost double compared to 2018. Steps have also been taken in the fields of employment and debt relief. Moreover, in order to further improve the income position of workers, the legal minimum wage in the Caribbean Netherlands has been gradually increased. In doing so, the AOV, the AWW and the state-of-the-art benefits have been increased proportionately. There has also been an improvement in the purchasing power of the islands, thanks to the measures aimed at reducing the cost of living. It's not just about income. If you don't pay the bills anymore, because they rise every day, that's not gonna help you with your purchasing power. As a cabinet, we have invested 3 million euros in expanding the range of social housing. A temporary subsidy has also been granted to reduce the rents of social minima in the private rental sector and the landlord's subsidy in the social rental sector has been increased. The pilot mortgage guarantee that started this year also makes the sales market more attractive for people with lower incomes. It is currently examining how food costs can be reduced. It is therefore a question of improving purchasing power among all types of households and income groups. Raising incomes cannot be separated from reducing the cost of living. It is clear that this will take some time. Let it also be clear that the balance between revenue and expenditure is very fragile. Additional cost increases hit the people on the small islands extra hard. Mr. Chairman. The motion adopted on the island councils of Bonaire and Saba is very understandable. This motion calls on the new government to set a social minimum for Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba as soon as possible, on the basis of the real cost of living and equivalent to that of the European part. However, the cabinet does not want to take the real costs as a starting point for the social minimum. In setting the benchmark, the cabinet deliberately did not choose to do so, because that would mean taking the too high costs for granted and focusing only on that revenue. That would create an unbalanced situation. So there is all the more reason to do something about these costs. After all, it cannot be the case that the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands with a smaller wallet will not improve anything. At the same time, I would like to say to the Minister for Social Affairs, and now the Secretary of State for Social Affairs after the event, it is important that the social minimum is set in step and in view of the regional context, the capacity of the economy and the competitiveness of the islands. These are things that you may not immediately think about when you look at the income position, but it does do something about employment and competitiveness in relation to the nearby islands. The most important thing is that we not only focus on the tourism sector, but that there is a diversified economy where income can be generated on multiple fronts. This has been the subject of many debates here in the Chamber. I sympathise with the speeches made by several Members to increase the minimum wage and related benefits as from 1 January 2022. Such a step is also in line with the approach taken by the government in 2010 to the social minimum benchmark. It is also in line with the Kralendijk Agreement concluded at Bonaire with the social partners. Members De Vries, Van den Berg and Kikken asked if this cabinet will take steps by 2022. In the debate we had before the summer on the social minimum benchmark, in which Minister Koolmees was still present at the time, this was also discussed with him and he explained that in view of the missionary status of the cabinet, it is not obvious that the cabinet would now take that step on its own. At that time that was based on the idea that the formation would not be completed for too long. However, with support and a concrete proposal from your Chamber, there is a basis for taking this further step by 2022. However, an appropriate proposal to cover the Social Affairs and Employment budget is needed. I would like to point out, however, that raising incomes cannot be separated from reducing the necessary cost of living, as has been discussed repeatedly in the Cabinet and also in previous debates with your Chamber. As far as the cost of living is concerned, we have recently been faced with setbacks that affect all the people on the islands. I mention higher costs for energy, internet and water. This is still separate from the recent global increase in gas and electricity prices. Mrs Van den Berg asked whether the Caribbean Netherlands would also be included in the debate on possible compensation or mitigation measures. In principle, the Caribbean Netherlands has a similar approach to that of the European Netherlands. I would say that it is reasonable for the Caribbean Netherlands to be involved in the decision-making process on possible compensation. Let me put it very carefully, because that is a debate that is still taking place at the moment, also on the basis of studies being carried out. As you know, Internet costs are also high in the Caribbean. The Secretary of State for EZK is currently considering the possibility of extending the corona grant for fixed internet for a further six months. The extension of this subsidy is desirable because otherwise a huge increase in costs would occur at once on 1 January. We were just talking about occasional and structural. Of course, it's up to a new cabinet to see how you're going to do it in the longer term. But we must bear in mind that the revenue side and the expenditure side must remain in balance. Mr Ceder also expressed concern about energy prices in subsidies on energy. It's gonna expire. At present, the fixed connection rate for both electricity and water is already structurally subsidised by the Ministry of Electricity, and IenW, in terms of water, at the European-Dutch cost level. At present, the Ministry of IenW has no additional budget to take structural additional measures on the costs of drinking water. The State Secretary of EZK is investigating the possibility of investing in its policy participation Bonaire Fuel Terminals. This could allow the terminal to invest in a solar or wind energy project. I'm very much in favour of that. A number of your Members referred to this yesterday, when it comes to good investment, which leads to lower structural burdens. The goal is therefore to find an optimal mix of speed, cost reduction and sustainability, as the motion Chicken asked earlier. In all solutions, it is important that production is co-ordinated responsibly in order to ensure security of energy supply. Ultimately, it is up to the next cabinet to decide on possible structural measures to reduce the cost of energy and drinking water. This brings me to the end of the poverty block, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u28	I saw Mrs. Chicken first, but I hear I can go to the others first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u29	I've been talking about the understand. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he thinks it is right that assistance in the Netherlands is about 70% of the statutory minimum wage, whereas in our overseas municipalities it is 30% to 40%. I hear him say a lot about the spending side. That's possible, but people at the bottom of society are also concerned with income.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u30	In 2019, the SZW Secretary of State made a plan to ensure that you step by step raise that social minimum. Why step by step? I have just said, perhaps too clearly, that it is not just about the revenue side, but also about the cost side. Because if you only focus on the revenue side, you should actually increase it substantially in order to improve purchasing power, which can generate all kinds of undesirable effects on the labour market and on competitiveness. You don't want that. In this sense, a comparison between the European Netherlands and the Caribbean in this case, apart from the principle of equality, is very complicated. It's important that there's a perspective. A number of measures have been taken over the last two years to increase income, particularly for people in vulnerable positions. I stress the cost side so much, because it is often forgotten. You can hardly raise against that. This would lead to major imbalances. I have just explained that several ministries already partially subsidise, which already reduces certain costs. But we are now faced with a number of temporary subsidies that are ending. In order to prevent people from getting into trouble, I said a few things about it. Raising the social minimum is a process that the Secretary of State said at the time: you don't do it once, but you do it in a number of steps and you keep looking at the effects. I think we should still hold that line and that would be a very healthy line. I have heard the plea from you and your colleagues. I have just spoken sympathetically about this, because I think we should avoid losing a year in the step-by-step approach towards a higher social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u31	Other Members and I have already said that we have been visiting a couple with disabled children. They both worked. So it wasn't even about people with benefits, it was about people who worked. The woman said to us, "I'm happy if I can pay the rent and buy food for my children." Those were working people. So when it comes to the under stand, that is 30% to 40% of that amount. Then it's a difference between whether your kids are a little bit or very much hungry. Then we can say'step by step' from the Netherlands, but it is unacceptable that in our country there are children who are hungry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u32	I very much agree with you on the latter. By the way, there are also all kinds of facilities at local level, I think that could be streamlined even better, which could help people in very vulnerable positions even more. But actually, your interruption is also a confirmation of my analysis that you should look at the cost side. Because even people with jobs already have problems getting by. If you increased the understand even more, the difference between working and not working would be even smaller. That is an example of a problem that will then arise. I also mention infrastructure. You yourself have asked questions about the port and about that sort of thing. One of the reasons why Bonaire is just more expensive is that all through Curaçao, from Santo Domingo or I know where to come from. That just costs extra money. That bill pays the people who go to the grocery store and do their shopping there. If you can reduce handling costs, for example by creating a larger port and making it more attractive to enter with larger volumes, you also do something good for people. I think we should look at that whole perspective. This applies not only to Bonaire, but also to Saba and Saint Eustatius.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u33	We actually had this conversation six months ago in the debate we had on this subject. It's gonna be some kind of round. The reason to work is more than just raising income. It has to do with contacts and being valuable to society. I'm not so afraid that if you raise the understand, you're gonna take the incentive away from people to go to work. I just think it's taking too long. We can talk about this and debate it and go around in the same circle, but in the meantime poverty is horribly poignant. I have tabled an amendment. For six months I understood that it could not start on 1 January, but as of 1 July it will amount to EUR 1 million. In the Social Affairs budget, that really is such an incredibly small amount, and you can do a lot with it for the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u34	What you're saying is all things I don't disagree with, just... We have just talked about coordination. We are now talking about the budget for Kingdom relations. I know there are initiatives from the Chamber. You indicated that in the first period. I also know that you have tabled an amendment. I have not yet come to the appreciation of it, but that is an amendment which I can follow on its own, with the comments I have made on the cost side, which you must also take with you explicitly, on the impact it has on the labour market and on all kinds of side effects that can occur. I support the basic idea, precisely on the principle. Except there's got to be cover. It would not be appropriate for me to make commitments here about a colleague's budget. Yes, that may be very annoying for you. At the same time, it is also the role that we all have to play. I play that role in the cabinet, and you play that role in the Chamber in order to have the Kingdom's voice heard in those budgets that deal with parts that are seen in the Caribbean Netherlands or in the countries. I think it is very nice that we have been able to agree in the cabinet that we have more or less aligned the corona support for the Caribbean Netherlands. I have just indicated to you, in response to Mrs van den Berg's questions, that I think it is reasonable that any measures that would follow for high energy prices, which will also apply to the Caribbean Netherlands, should be taken. I would like to, but you cannot ask me in this position to say something about the amendment that you are, I presume, going to submit to the SZW budget, because it also looks at that budget. That is not on the budget of Kingdom relations. At the same time, I support the call for a step-by-step approach to this social minimum. This is entirely in line with the agreements that Mr Van Ark made with the Chamber at the time and which have been reconfirmed by Minister Koolmees. Step by step, and in that sense I welcome the initiative from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mrs van den Berg, whom I would like to draw your attention to the maximum number of interruptions I have mentioned: five individual remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u36	Five? Then I'm gonna try to put it in one question, or I won't have anything left. I'm glad the Secretary of State says it's a good thing those benefits are going up. It is also nice that the Internet is extended for another six months. I don't know if the Secretary of State will come back to it, because he didn't do it in the blocks I wrote down, but I also asked him to look at how we can socialize water, energy and the Internet with the Netherlands. In the Netherlands we also make no difference between Amsterdam and the Wadden Islands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at that in total? Under poverty, I also expected him to come back to my questions about providing perspective, which I had asked in agriculture and the training programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u37	I believe that we have already said something about this in the written reply, but I would like to repeat it once again. First of all, the question of socializing what Mrs van den Berg has talked about. At present, fixed terminal charges are already being subsidised. In this sense, you can already see that there is a subsidy from the European Netherlands to bring it to the same rate as in the European Netherlands. I think it would be a good idea to take the suggestion to see if you could go a little further, but it really is in the area of the colleagues of EZK and IenW. I can't say anything about that right now. I also believe that in the discussion that is going to take place in any case, we need to look carefully at how to ensure on the cost side that not all the efforts you make on the revenue side are destroyed because weird things are happening on the cost side, including the discussion that has just taken place on occasional investments with structural cost reductions. This also makes sense for a new cabinet that is forming a number of parties here in the Chamber. We all have to look at that. I would like to answer that question in that way. With regard to the perspectives, that is something where there are still a lot of opportunities, despite the small scale. I'm really convinced of that. Agriculture is, of course, a very important perspective. You have a lot of ingredients there to basically produce good agriculture to be self-sufficient and not have to import the fruit and vegetables over hundreds of kilometres. That's a matter of organizing. Grants have already been given for this. There are initiatives for this, but it is slow, I admit. Mr Bosman spoke about this almost every budget debate and said 'too little is happening'; he was right about that too. I went there recently during a work visit to Bonaire. I can see that initiatives are being taken, but the vulnerability is a little small because the market is limited. You can't start exporting from Bonaire. That's not very obvious. But that is something that should be worked on. Agriculture is a very obvious thing, because it immediately affects what is so expensive in the supermarket: fruit and vegetables, which is also the most healthy food.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u38	I had planned to get a little nicer in this house, but there is a lot of nonsense coming out of the mouth of this Secretary of State when it comes to poverty and state aid. Step by step, he says, but we've been 11 years. It's called the poverty line for a reason, because it's the minimum amount you have to raise in order to eat, sleep and provide your children with fruit and vegetables. We just don't live up to that. This is not about countries that have opted for independence. It is just three Dutch municipalities that have been disadvantaged for eleven years. Then I hear all kinds of nonsense passing by like "sucking effect." Why? You have to live on the island for at least five years to qualify. Most people want to work, but they're fired, for example because of corona. And third, the people who can get a job often have two to three jobs. That disguised feeling of "Oh, they're lazy people and that's why we shouldn't raise the underbelly"... Really, I'm really getting a little spit and spit. He doesn't say it literally, but he doesn't mean to. So I'm really wondering... I know there is now a motion to raise the legal minimum wage. I don't agree with the cover. Together with GroenLinks, we are looking for alternatives. There is an amendment to the aid, and that too may be modified. But can't the cabinet say, "Oh, we're going to settle the EUR 1 million for the coming year"? Wouldn't that just be decent after 11 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u39	I believe that my speech is perfectly consistent with all the speeches I have made on this subject. This is certainly true of the colleagues in the cabinet, and I do not therefore fully understand the excitement of Mrs Kuik at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u40	No! I object to this because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u41	No. The Secretary of State is speaking. The Secretary of State is speaking, and I'm not gonna interrupt him. The Secretary of State has the floor, and then you can respond again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u42	But, Mr. President, this is equally emotional because it's about people in poverty and I'm being put away like a caricature because I'd get excited. Yeah, I'm excited right now because I'm upset about this. Just don't do that. Give a substantive answer and stay away from this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mr President, I have simply given an answer on the substance. I have been doing this all along and it is simply completely consistent with what I and the cabinet have said before. Moreover, over the last four years, we have made enormous efforts in this area. Are we where we're supposed to be? No, we're not there yet. That's what I've always said, and I've never denied it. Nor did the Minister for Social Affairs or the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. If Mrs. Kuik says "too little has happened in the past few years," I agree with her. The cabinet for this cabinet has done nothing to combat poverty. Nothing at all. Nothing at all! We did pick it up, and I'm really glad we did. We will continue to do so, but I have just indicated that, precisely because of this missionary status, we were not given the opportunity at the moment to regulate it in a structural way. I also think you shouldn't do this occasionally. You have to cover this structuralally. This is a topic that is about security of existence and you have to offer people perspective. We want to work on that, step by step. I have also said that I am very pleased with the initiative of the Chamber, which would lead to a substantial increase, but that needs to be covered. And yes, with all due respect, Mr President, but we had a debate on that. Mrs. Kuik is getting mad at me and telling me I'm full of shit. The latter is certainly not the case, because, once again, you can read in the Minutes that I have told the same story every time. Mrs. Chicken, you can't agree with me. It's okay. And you may think that we have done too little, but I am telling you that we have done more, much more, than in the four or five years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u44	I'm getting angry because it's suggested that by raising the under standing people wouldn't be stimulated to go to work anymore. I'm getting angry because it's suggested that there's gonna be a sucking effect, while that's pertinent bullshit. I get angry because for 11 years, we've just been denying people a decent basic income. These are not independent countries, because they are just three Dutch municipalities that we are abandoning. Finally. I know the previous cabinet didn't do enough. For the gates of hell, we've just been able to drag an investigation out. There had to be, because there was political unwillingness. That investigation is now in place. There is absolutely no doubt about what it takes to get people on a decent income, and this cabinet hasn't done it in five years. All the data is there and we know what needs to be done. Mr President, I am just finishing up. The answer is no. I hear that, but I do want to fight it, because I find it really scandalous how we deal with people in our Kingdom, in one of our Dutch municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u45	What Mrs. Kuik says is wrong. I can't say otherwise. This cabinet has taken far more steps than the previous cabinet. Step by step this was indicated by Mr Van Ark at the time. We have made a link, because if you raise the under stand, it has effects for people who have an income from a job. This has just been discussed in an interruption. I think you should look at that in conjunction. I fully support what the SZW colleagues have said about this. I'm not going to distance myself from that in any way. It's a consistent line. I would like to say again that when it comes to poverty, Mrs Kuik, we all need not have seen what it does to people there. I also believe that we all have a duty to deal with this and resolve it. That's what we're gonna do. I also think that a new cabinet has a big mission here. There are all kinds of parties that can play a role in this. But I honestly don't think it's a pass if you get very angry here. You are getting very angry and saying that I'm talking nonsense about something that the cabinet didn't do anything about, while this cabinet is trying to fix a number of things. It would be a good thing for Mrs Kuik, Mr President, if she were a little more moderate and a little more realistic. You can find anything. We can totally disagree. But you are now putting words in my mouth, all of which I would suggest and so on, which is simply not true. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u46	Finally, I would like to read the texts of my own, because you are suggesting them. And if you don't mean it, be careful in the words you choose. That's one. Two: I have never denied that this cabinet has taken steps. That's what I'm very happy about. However, I do not understand why, now that we are ready and there are well-founded plans, you do not and link with the support of the Kralendijk chord, and also immediately raises the understand. That you don't have to deal with that in a structural way, because it is true that there is still to be formed, I understand. But wouldn't it make sense to settle it for the coming year? And you can! We are talking about 1 million or even less of that for the coming year. There's a motion, I don't like the coverage, but I'm still breeding on alternatives to raise the legal minimum wage. He's gonna make it, because that wish does have a majority. Doesn't it make sense to get the assistance right away? If the aid is there for that statutory minimum wage, why should there not be support for that assistance? I honestly don't understand. Finally, Mr President, the very last thing. After five years, I am a little done with anyone who still calls the previous cabinet an excuse not to take the steps they can now take. The Secretary of State has power in this matter. This may be his last debate. I'd say use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u47	It might be, what Mrs. Chicken says, but it's not. I'm not a social affairs executive. I am not dealing with the Social Affairs budget. You're standing here keeping a whole story. We have had a debate on this with the rulers. There's a proposal from the Chamber. I have just given a detailed reflection on this. You act as if I were against that proposal, as if I were against an increase in the social minimum. Nothing could be further from the truth. Nothing is less true. I would be happy if it happened, but you have to take it one step at a time, and I think that the step that is now to be taken from the Chamber is not a small step. That's quite a step. However, I think that the excitement, the way you are doing it now, is really wrong, and it does not do justice to the efforts of the entire cabinet. If you say that we have done too little, then I can certainly reflect on what happened the years before. You started in 2010. I didn't start in 2010, but there was a cabinet before that that just didn't pay that much attention to those islands. I'm very sorry about that. We are going to fix some of that and the next cabinet will have to do the same. It's not like it's all in order. There are too many problems for that. We agree on that, too. But don't pretend that I'm your opponent here on a subject that we all think needs to be taken steps. I don't understand, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of sustainability. I think this is a subject which has not received sufficient attention in the various islands. It has been appointed by Mrs Bromet in particular. I very much welcome her input on this point, because I really think that there is something at stake on the islands when it comes to nature. A lot of good things are happening, but let me mention a number of things that concern me. The erosion caused by the goat problem is enormous. That's a real threat to nature. On numerous visits I have made, with STINAPA for example or the World Wildlife Fund, I have always had an element in which we have seen and heard what those threats were. I think there are a lot of opportunities for the islands, including in the area of sustainable economic development, if you protect that nature. That may be underwater or above water, but more needs to be done about it. I know that the LNV Ministry has also carried out all kinds of projects there, but I would very much welcome it if there were some generalisation in this area from the islands themselves, because there are a lot of good initiatives, and there are a lot more attention, also in the political sense, for the heritage that exists, for the heritage that exists and that needs to be guarded and managed. I just mentioned STINAPA. That's an organization that does a lot about it. For example, when I first came to Saint Martin, there was a garbage heap in the middle of that island and for decades the politics had failed to solve that problem. I find this a disgrace: that there is simply no attention to so much misery that directly harms people's health. So I very much welcome the fact that we are taking steps together with the islands to make this better. Let me say a few words about how I see it in practice. Mrs. Wuite asked if I saw opportunities to use renewable energy. Well, I do see that one. 'Cause that's happening a lot. You rightly said that Saba generates 100% of its own energy. By day, though, because if you look at both day and night, it's a little less. But what can be done there is still a very good example for the Netherlands, I would say. Sint-Eustatius also comes in that direction, and Bonaire still has a few steps to take. But from the Netherlands I think this could really be an example to see what you can do with water, wind and sun. The beauty of that is that if you make a good investment in it, which immediately leads to a more acceptable cost level. The whole debate we have just had on poverty is, of course, just about that. Then the knife cuts both ways. Then we really do the good stuff. So I think that's also a way we should go in the future. TNO is currently working on a roadmap for climate-neutral energy supplies in the Caribbean Netherlands. That is the execution of your Chamber's Boucke motion. The Secretary of State for EZK will send this roadmap, including the conclusions and follow-up steps, to your Chamber around the ceremony. The TNO Roadmap also includes the necessary investments. This is really something you need to look at over the longer term. There will have to be agreements between the cabinet and the public bodies. Saba and Sint-Eustatius are now working on their own sustainability and investment plans. Saba looks at the possibilities that wind energy can give. And if these plans are concretely worked out, it can be assessed whether a contribution from the Empire is appropriate, necessary and how this can be designed. All three islands also invest in improving the sustainability of food supply. Self-reliance: that is what we were talking about just now in the debate with Mrs van den Berg. This means improving services for agriculture, livestock farming and fisheries. It also means tackling cattle loosening, erosion problems, investment in good water supply for agricultural activities and investment in water-saving hydroponic installations. Reforestation must also further reduce erosion and thus promote sustainable vegetation growth. This is also an investment that works very well. Because especially with hurricanes and large rainfalls, this erosion is really a problem. We have seen how much we have had to invest on St.Eustatius to strut the cliff at Fort Orange, to protect heritage, to literally prevent houses from collapsing. If you make sure that nature does its job, that trees can grow, that there is vegetation, you also avoid this kind of misery. In addition, many steps have been taken in the area of waste and recycling. There is also increased awareness of what waste does to the environment on the island. We have set up a number of facilities that I think can be very helpful. Mrs Bromet is concerned about the fact that Bonaire is under pressure on the market because people from the Netherlands or elsewhere often want to build houses, do project development and so on. This is even happening in the protected area, or at least it is being discussed now, and there are rumours about whether there are initiatives: that is what I have to say. I think it is important to note that, of course, all this is the competence of the public body. But I also believe that the public body should also maintain where, for example, illegal construction is taking place. This must be done on the basis of the spatial plans that exist. I've also reported this in conversations with the public body. And if those spatial plans aren't there yet, they need to be further developed. We must, of course, maintain where illegal construction is taking place, because the laws and regulations must be followed. But it is ultimately up to the island council to decide what choices are going to be made. Bonaire has a very specific Blue Destination concept, where you want to shape sustainable tourism for the coming years. Then you have to make concrete plans for that, too. Then you will have to do something about waste water treatment, sewage treatment, to prevent erosion, and indeed to protect nature. Of course, at the time of a development, this development is subject to environmental impact assessments, and legal standards and rules must be complied with. I would like to say here that I would welcome more attention being paid to this subject and to the protection of nature in the islands themselves. Because I also see the pressure. If you do not actually test this on the basis of a policy that you develop, you will get some sort of incremental spatial development. And that's usually not the right thing to do. That brings me to the end of this block, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u48	Mrs Wuite on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u49	I understand from the answer given by the Secretary of State to the factual questions that it would be possible for the Caribbean islands to claim European funds for further sustainability and climate adaptation, but I also understand that this can only be done if you support the EU objectives in this and if you submit them together with an EU partner. That often requires capacity. Can the Secretary of State assist in this, so that sustainability and climate adaptation can really be accelerated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u50	Sure, we can do that. It depends a little on whether the Caribbean is the Netherlands or the countries; you rightly said that. It also depends on the willingness of the countries themselves: do they want to invest in this? An example. We had an initiative at St Maarten to do waste water treatment through a European fund, but in the end the application was not submitted because there were other priorities and the budgets were allocated differently. But that basic willingness is always there, also because it offers access to additional financial resources, which means that the uneconomic summit that sometimes exists is more financed. It is simply in the interests of everyone to make use of it wherever possible. We would like to assist in this, even when it comes to the paperwork that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u51	Mr President, what am I, on four, on six?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u52	Four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u53	Then this is really my last. What can the Secretary of State actually undertake to do so on his own initiative and not to wait for the islands to come forward with a request? My mind is getting loose, I know what happens then, and I think the Secretary of State understands it, too. What could be a proactive initiative of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u54	There are two ways to do this. We can think that it is good to use the funds. That is the example of Saint Martin I have just mentioned. We said, "Wouldn't you use it?' In the end, that didn't happen. It may also be that the islands themselves played on Bonaire and also use European funds on Saint-Eustatius and that the Netherlands co-finances, contributes or matches budgets that were already available. It is also a very general question, but in a very general sense: yes, we would like to participate in it, because it is also in our interest for these good initiatives to be taken. You have just heard a little bit in my story that I sometimes feel that we are paying more attention to this type of subject than we sometimes have on the islands. The dump on Sint-Maarten is a very visual example. It is not a positive example, but it is a very good example of what is being addressed only after we have said, in the context of Hurricane Irma and the danger involved, that this must be included in the projects that are being taken up by the World Bank. Of course, we also help the people on St.Maarten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u55	The Secretary of State speaks warm words about nature on Bonaire, but for the rest he leaves it all to the board there. I wonder how he looks at that. If things get out of hand, we... It's a city. If a municipality in the Netherlands makes a pot of it and starts building it without a nature permit in a protected nature reserve, then I assume there are ways in which the Empire can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u56	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u57	I would like to know a little more about his active role in this. Is he going to talk to the drivers there about those permits and their enforcement? Will he see what can be done if it continues in such a way that it threatens to happen now and it gets out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u58	It depends on what's going on. You say there'd be construction in places where you can't. That's just not allowed, so that's a title to appeal to the public body. I don't have any leads on that right now, but if you have them, I'd be happy to hear it. In general terms, the public authority is competent in determining spatial plans and issuing building permits. That is not a matter that we are directly monitoring. In the case of nature development and land-use planning, the departments of the trade have a role to play again. The only thing I do and have done a number of times is come up with suggestions, especially on Bonaire, because there is the most development space there, and enter into conversation with the island leader: it is in your interest, also as part of the governance agreement on Bonaire, to establish, for example, ground policy, land issuance, but also spatial policy. What do you want now? What do you want with this Blue Destination? Now make that concrete. Make sure it is also transparent and testable, so that any initiators at the front can see if it fits within the public body's vision. But first and foremost, it is a matter of the public body itself and not of the government, as much as that also applies in the Netherlands at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u59	The Secretary of State has had three cubes on very important matters. If he can stay short and pointy, perhaps we could finish this whole debate before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u60	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. In my view, that is the only answer you can deal with at the moment. The country packages: the fourth block. A number of questions have been asked about this. I have already said that the crisis is so great and has revealed so many vulnerabilities that there is widespread support in the form of liquidity support. It's really big money. At the moment, we are talking about more than a billion euros. Of course, we had Upper Winds the hurricane, we had the crisis in Venezuela and we had covid. So basically all the things you can think of in this area came together. Mrs De Vries asked me to reflect on the problem-solving capacity of the islands. I think that the conclusion must be that, also in the wake of all these crises, the weaknesses, the imperfections, have been exposed and that there is therefore no longer time to think that it will all be better by itself. We're gonna need some help. For example, the aforementioned debt of the Netherlands Antilles of 1.3 billion euros, which was cancelled in 2010, has already doubled. A debt has already been built up again and I am not taking Aruba into account for a moment: EUR 2.8 billion. That's not sustainable, especially for small island states. The IMF has issued several reports on this. The debt ratio is far too high. This means that there is only one thing to happen before there is disaster again. I think we should help each other make the right choices. That is in line with the introduction that I have just started my speech with. The country packages and liquidity support are closely linked, because in those country packages we make agreements with the countries to reform things. So it's a mutual arrangement. That is what we are doing, for example, in the area of public administration or tax collection. In any case, I can conclude that this problem-solving capacity has not been sufficient to avert this crisis. Of course, the covid crisis was also very large and the one-sidedness of the economy made it even more vulnerable, but before that, of course, we had already had the conversations. We already had the Growth Agreement with Curaçao, which we had agreed, after Hurricane Irma we also looked at what is going on on St.Maarten and we were also talking about a new financial framework for Aruba. So the crises that followed have only made it even more clear that we need to take steps in this regard. In this context, Mr De Graaf asked whether it is not a good time to call on the islands to grow up. I think that's a metaphor of his own example of his children that he's always mentioned. I don't know if it helps to grow up when you say you need to grow up. I think it's more about how we can see where the shortcomings are and how we can help each other. The COHO will play a role in guiding that process. It is good to keep in mind that the size of the islands is such that it is comparable to medium-sized Dutch cities, whereas they do have tasks that are many times larger than those of a city. So the question is whether it makes sense to assume that they can do it all by themselves. I don't think so, especially at this stage. COHO can play an important role in this. Mrs De Vries asked what the COHO route was like. On 3 September we reached an administrative agreement at the National Council of Ministers. It was agreed to request a supplementary opinion from the Council of State on one part. That advice has now been received. I am talking to the countries about this, so that it can eventually be sent as a total legislative proposal to the House of Representatives and to the States of the countries. Mrs De Vries also asked about the state of implementation of the country packages. That execution is more complex than I thought. This has to do with a lack of implementation capacity, and sometimes with political interference. Elections lead, as we now see in the Netherlands, to a situation where there is a outgoing cabinet and there is a phase of an outgoing government and an incoming government, where in the meantime it is sometimes very difficult to come to the table with both parties because people do not feel mandated, feel empowered, to do business. Must have been in Curaçao. So that's what we've wasted time with. The Ombudsman also delivered a ruling on St Maarten, which means that some of those salary cuts cannot be formalised. Some of them have been carried out in practice. But then you see that local legislation does not formalise what you have agreed with each other in the context of those country packages and the conditions for liquidity support. That creates obstacles along the way. Nevertheless, all three countries have taken the first concrete steps. I have also said in writing, in reply to the written questions to the budget of 8 October, that since the signing of the country packages, more than 45 plans of approach have been adopted and nearly 20 plans of approach in concept are ready. For several measures, the research phase can already be completed in the short term and the transition to the implementation phase has been made. Mrs De Vries specifically asked about progress on a number of issues within the country package. I'll do that a little bit shorter, Mr President, otherwise I'll hear it. Financial management is an important issue. In addition, you can see that the first steps are being taken in all countries to get this right. Of course, we had all the Cft and CAft that overseed that. But the imbalance in the budgets means that it only needs to be improved, even in its own audit, which needs to be improved. With regard to tax administrations, there is still a world to be won. I am shocked by the situation in some countries. It was discussed earlier in the Chamber. That's gotta be in order. It can't be that some people are so privileged that they don't have to pay taxes because they happen to know someone. That can't be reality. That is a process that also requires political determination in the countries. On the islands themselves you can see that it is sometimes complicated to talk about these kinds of subjects, because it is all small-scale. But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is not just about drawing up these plans now, but also about actually implementing them and showing that revenue is also coming in on the basis of the legislation adopted by the countries themselves. It shouldn't happen that some people get delayed and never have to pay again. That can't be true. Anyway, this is years of ignoring, looking away and neglecting the basis of it. That's all gonna have to be picked up. Sometimes you run into a capacity problem. Then we are prepared to make capacity available. I've reported that before. As a cabinet, we have invested heavily in tackling corruption and undermining in order to make more possible there. In the coming years, the Joint Research Team, the Carib Office, OM Aruba and the Common Court will eventually be financed with a structural contribution of 25 million. In doing so, we hope to make that undermining approach structural. It's a problem that certainly plays pregnant in that area of the world. We're also going to invest in border control. That is, of course, a national task. The Royal Marechaussee, Customs and the investment in the Coast Guard play a role in this. Within the framework of the protocol strengthening border control, countries are currently working out plans of approach with the Netherlands. Finally. With regard to improving the economy, zero measurements are currently taking place, looking at entrepreneurship policies and the investment environment, but also at the labour market and the social security system. That's very important. The first results are dripping in and translated into the implementation agendas, giving priority to concrete measures that are quickly visible and, for example, make them more attractive. This is, of course, a problem, particularly in Curaçao: there has been little economic growth in the last ten years. Where Aruba and Saint Martin still had economic growth, you see that this just did not happen on Curaçao. This is also one of the causes of imbalances and rising national debt. We really need to make it work. Mrs Wuite asked whether it is sufficiently sharp and whether we have enough in mind what we are working towards. Can we conclude and believe that the reforms are a sustainable success? First of all, and I've indicated this earlier, this is not a problem that you solve overnight as quickly as possible. You're gonna have to do that for a couple of years. Just as it plays with legislation here in Parliament, it plays with much more. There's so much to fix. Implementation organisations need to be built. You just have to put that out in a couple of years. You also need to dose your schedule. You can't declare everything a priority, because then nothing is more of a priority. This is a process in which we have to taste each other's kidneys once in a while, such as: have we perhaps not been too ambitious and should we step back? But in the end, all that has to be done in those years is to take steps forward. That's the goal. We are currently, for example, reviewing the education systems. Some of you have also mentioned in your contribution that it is important that there is also a perspective for the young generation on the labour market, inside and outside Curaçao, Aruba or Saint Martin, and that people can return. For this, it is important that there is economic development, but also that education is in order. There too you can see that there have been delays in the various countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u61	Was this the block of land limitation? If you could just wrap it up, we'll go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u62	No, it wasn't. Mr Ceder is calling for my attention to be paid to the concerns of the Caribbean about the functioning of certain periods of reform. I have already said something about this. We often want more than we can, that's true. However, we have allocated a great deal of time to implement these country packages. That's really going to play over a six-year stretch. We have been working for a year now on the establishment of the state law, which still needs to be dealt with in this Parliament. On the one hand you want to have realistic planning and at the same time there must be pressure on the process, because otherwise it will get bogged down in nothing, then there will be no more urgency and then we will do other things again. That COHO is really trying to make agreements on this for the longer term. There is sufficient capacity for that. I did not hear anything about a specific proposal by the countries to change this process, as Mr Ceder suspects in his question. We just have good agreements about it and if there's something wrong or there's good reasons why something can't, then we're always willing to look at it, but we're planning together. Finally, the most important problem, which Mrs Wuite called for attention to be given to, and others too: the effectiveness of implementation. The implementation power is a really big problem. The only way to solve this quickly is to make capacity available from the Netherlands. We have done this first of all at St.Maarten in connection with Hurricane Irma, but we are doing so now in the field of real estate management, financial management or taxation, making expertise available to the public administration. It is then intended that it will come forward with concrete proposals under the authority of the Board. I have to say that I think it could be a little faster on this point. We've offered more than we've accepted. It's also a matter of it takes two to tango.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u63	First of all, I am curious when the COHO proposals will come to the House of Representatives. I hear a lot of plans of action. That is all very well, of course, but ultimately it is about seeing results. I am curious when the Secretary of State finds it a success that these country packages have been completed and when we see real improvement in the areas of corruption, economy and sound financial management and good governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u64	I fully agree with Mrs De Vries: plans are beautiful, but ultimately they are about implementation and the result. Let me give you an example of these tax reforms. You can have a lot of discussions about how to do it all, and that is of course a matter for the country itself, but in the end you have to implement, implement and maintain it. If people don't pay, they collect. If people think they don't have to pay, when the law says they have to pay, you go after them. You do make sure there isn't some kind of class justice, some people pay by law and others don't. If you have that system in order and the revenue comes in, you can say for that domain that it has succeeded. But then you have to guard that it stays that way. This is an important task for the organisations. This is not a political issue, it is an organisational one. With regard to the economy, it is largely dependent on how covid develops and what it does with tourism; let us be honest. The issue of diversification really lies in the country packages of, for example, Curaçao and Aruba, because one is too dependent on tourism alone. There are so many implementation plans, that you have to start assessing each plan immediately what the goals were and when they were realized. We've spent six years on that. As regards the method of reporting to the Chamber, we will inform you about the progress of various projects. I don't think it's a success until it's really introduced, not when someone says, "We're gonna do it." I don't think it's a success. I think it's too early to take stock. I can at least say that there is cooperation from countries. I hope that will continue to be the case, because the vast majority of the things we are going to do in these packages were things that the countries themselves had more or less planned. This also helps them to actually do it now. Then there is the question of the proposal for the state law. I hope that in the foreseeable future, if we agree on the response to the opinion of the Council of State, the House of Representatives and the States, you will be able to deal with it in Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u65	I understand it's a very diverse process, but let me get one important one out of it. We've had discussions about taxes before. I think that's a very important one. I think it is right and proper that we should show solidarity, but I also think it is right that we should put a number of conditions in place. I think this is a very important one. When this does not run fast enough, when this is not filled in, I think: we are going to give money again, but then the collection of taxes is not arranged. So the question to the Secretary of State is: what is the time when he is going to test and possibly take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u66	I understand that question. It is not for nothing that, for example, the reform of the Tax Administration and tax collection have been identified as a priority. You can't point out everything as a priority, but this is one of them. If that did not go according to schedule and if you see that it does not deliver the desired results, then of course it will also have consequences for the extent to which you would provide any liquidity support in subsequent phases. So there is a great deal of pressure behind it, including in the countries, in order to actually achieve what we ourselves have agreed. We can assist if knowledge is needed to set something up; sometimes it is quite complicated and complex. But in the end it is also a question of political will and determination in the countries to implement this throughout their legislative processes and to check from the national parliament whether the government is complying with the commitments, just as it is doing here. I believe that the only way to monitor this properly is to assess, on the basis of reports, whether there is sufficient progress and whether the agreements are being complied with. In fact, we are already doing so when providing liquidity support in the National Council of Ministers. The promises made at the front about subsequent phases and the results from previous phases are, of course, included in the assessment of whether or not to grant liquidity support. That is the mechanism on which this is based. Let me also say here that I am positive about the fact that there is official and administrative cooperation. This certainly applies to Aruba and Saint Martin. I'm just a little more concerned about Curaçao, because we've lost a lot of time there and because it's going to hurt a bit there at the moment. I hope that one leg will be added to that and that this will allow us to make up for some of the time we have lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u67	I hope the Secretary of State can briefly go through the next two blocks. Then we can go to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u68	I have two more cubes, Mr. Chairman. First of all, human rights. Mr Koekkoek and Mr Bromet asked a number of questions about the Amnesty International report which was published last Monday. In the meantime, I have taken note of that report. I have been asked to respond in writing. In any case, I am making use of the opportunity to do so orally in this debate. Amnesty says that the Dutch support to Curaçao is related to alleged human rights violations. I think this is a misconception. It is factually incorrect that Dutch services are directly involved in the actual implementation of the Curaçao foreign policy. The Coast Guard Carib, a cooperation between the countries of the Kingdom, is not a Dutch service like a kingdom organization. All efforts are under local authority. The Netherlands therefore does not assume any responsibilities and certainly does not have a supervisory role, because migration policy is a national issue. It is up to the Curaçao authorities and the judiciary to check whether the procedures comply with international law and whether the countries comply with their obligations to protect human rights. The Netherlands provides assistance and assistance at the request of the countries. They are also carried out under local authority. These contribute to the safeguarding of human rights and will certainly never have to lead to violations. The support offered by the Netherlands is not always non-binding. In the context of the detention of aliens, for example, I urged Curaçao to come up with a sound plan, including the intangible aspects. For example, I have pointed out several times to your Chamber and to Curaçao that human rights standards also play a role in improving the detention of foreigners in Curaçao. It is important, for example, that there is access to medical care and legal assistance, that there is training for staff with regard to the treatment of foreigners, that there are appropriate home rules in the various regimes and that there is a meaningful daily use. In recent years, I have repeatedly stressed to the Ministry of Justice of Curaçao that it is important to put this in order more quickly. The question has also been asked how the Netherlands works with other countries within the Kingdom on asylum procedures that do justice to international standards. Your Chamber has previously been informed of this: the countries are supported, inter alia, in the implementation of the asylum procedure and the procedure under Article 3 of the ECHR in accordance with their international obligations. For example, the Ministry of Justice and Security and its executive services support the IND, Aruba and Curaçao in optimising the foreign chain. For this purpose, the Ministry of JenV released €7.2 million in 2019, '20 and '21. This was used, among other things, for document training and training in asylum-related hearing and decision-making techniques. Mrs Koekkoek asked for legal aid. On this point, I carried out Mrs Diertens' motion last year. In my letter to the Chamber of October last year I explained that Curaçao could ask for help within the Working Group on Mutual Arrangements for Aliens Chain, for example with JenV. In conversations with Curaçao it turned out that it asked NGOs for help in providing legal aid. With that information, the motion has in fact been dealt with. However, it is still up to Curaçao to organise and finance legal aid for foreigners. To my mind, identifying the humanitarian needs in Curaçao is really something between civil society aid organisations and the Curaçao authorities. If desired by Curaçao, the Netherlands is willing to participate in these talks and offer expertise wherever possible. In one of her questions, Mrs Koekkoek refers to periodic human rights conventions. This consultation focuses primarily on how human rights treaties that are not yet in force in the Caribbean countries can apply there in the near future. For example, the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which currently applies only in the European Netherlands and not in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. If such a convention is to be ratified, the necessary implementing legislation must first be in order. In the human rights conventions and consultations, the four countries together seek to promote the development of such legislation. With her question on legal aid and foreign detention standards, Mrs Koekkoek touches on treaties that already apply in the Caribbean countries, in particular the ECHR. They are therefore not dealt with in this consultation, because compliance with these conventions is primarily up to the Caribbean countries themselves, as we have said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u69	My question about human rights violations was not only about whether it was a competence of the Netherlands, but also about the money we give, for example, about detention and border control. In this way, we have an influence on what is going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u70	But that is also a role we have. Around detention, it is only done to improve the conditions under which people are detained. We have seen that this was not yet up to the standards. In all consultations, like my colleagues in the Four-Justice Council, we have also appealed to the Justice Ministers about their national responsibility, also on the basis of the Statute. In the division of responsibility between countries, agreements have been made on who is responsible for what. We've got land assignments, and we've got land assignments. As far as the tasks of the empire are concerned, we are accountable and, at the very least, co-responsible. But when it comes to land tasks, it's really on land. As a country, we can help the Netherlands to improve conditions. This can be done by means of financial resources or training, as I have just mentioned, but this can also be done by providing expertise. We will continue to do so, but it is not the case that we can enforce it. Those aren't the proportions. And so it goes too far that the Netherlands is now held responsible for what is happening in Curaçao in this area. That is simply not correct in international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u71	It is not a question of whether the Netherlands is held responsible. The point is that I find it undesirable that people are being held in prison in the Kingdom of the Netherlands until they are forced to sign a declaration and supposedly leave voluntarily. That is not in line with the refugee treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u72	No, and at the time when the countries would not act in accordance with international conventions, you can see that these countries are accountable and accountable. We have seen examples of this before. Then it was about ordinary detention on Saint Martin. So we are having this debate here, but this debate will also have to take place in the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u73	That is, of course, precisely the search for relations. But I am curious, through you, Mr President, to tell the Secretary of State, how to interpret Article 43 of the Statute. For it says, of course, that it is the Kingdom's responsibility to safeguard the values of the Kingdom. The second paragraph of that article states precisely that guaranteeing these rights, freedoms, legal certainty and soundness is a matter for the Kingdom. I understand that we have to be careful where we place the responsibility, but we may have to take it as a joint task as countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u74	Not legally motivated: I agree with you politically that we should be able to address each other within the Kingdom. I made that point in my introduction. On behalf of the Dutch Government, therefore, I think that Curaçao should do more to be compliant with treaties it has committed itself to. At the same time, it is the role of the Netherlands, not the Kingdom, to assist the countries within the possibilities. We feel that responsibility, too. But that's different from taking over that responsibility. The countries themselves are still able to improve and put these procedures in order. The article you are referring to is an ultimum-remedium article with which the Netherlands would eventually have a title to intervene in it, if it really cannot do otherwise and countries do not want to do so. Our assessment of this is that it is not yet on the agenda. I would just like to say once again that we are encouraging the countries to respect the procedures and that the Netherlands is, and has been, willing to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u75	I think it is good in itself that we state that we are willing to help on request. That does the proportions well. At the same time, this is a problem that has been going on for a long time. Could we, as the Netherlands, not come up with much more concrete actions? Think of the practical provision of technical assistance, for example in the area of legal aid. Can we also consider this, even though it is not the primary objective of periodic consultations, as a situation in which this should be achieved, precisely because of, for example, Article 3 of the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u76	I also attach great importance to that article. It is not for nothing that the debate here in the Netherlands is always taking place vividly. I agree with you that if you put the way it is being carried out in Curaçao at the moment along the bar of that article, there is a lot to be done. We don't disagree about that. At the same time, what more can we do in this situation than what we have done, namely to provide assistance and assistance? That wasn't always easy, by the way. Let me add that to that. This is not so much the case for the Dutch side, because, as I have just said, the executive services of the Ministry of Justice and Security have been extremely generous in this, but it must come from both sides, even at the moment. I am a little surprised that we are having this debate here, and this debate should also be held in the States of Curaçao. That must then be placed alongside all kinds of other priorities that one naturally has, and where one is not yet compliant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u77	I can imagine. Once again, that request must be made, and it must come from both sides. What I find very difficult about this is that it is not a new problem. Maybe we should look for ways in which, instead of sitting passively waiting for each other, you can actively reach out to each other. With that we will not take over as the Netherlands. The passive saying 'come forward with a request and then we will provide technical assistance' might, in the current urgent situation, move to actively sticking out the hand and taking the lead in that discussion. I don't hear that enough in the Secretary of State's story right now. I do not understand where the obstacles are when it is said: it has to come from two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u78	The fact that it has to come from both sides has to do with the fact that when we offer something, it must be accepted on the other side, not passively, but actively. That's one. Two. It is a misconception that in recent years we would have waited only for questions to come from Curaçao. That's not how it happened. We have dealt with this subject on several occasions, also at the request of the Chamber, because this Chamber attaches great importance to this subject. We have also provided resources. We have made real funds available in the budget for this. I just mentioned the amount of 7.2 million euros. We can't dismiss that as "we've only waited for a call from Willemstad asking if we can help." I think it had more energy on it from this side than from the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u79	Saint Eustatius.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u80	Mr. Chairman. Saint Eustatius. The Wiute member and the Kuzu member of DENK have asked about the state of play of the route time table, which has also been discussed in the Chamber before. We have asked about the duration of the procedure, so how long the procedure should last, of course, many times in the Chamber. I have always indicated: as short as possible, but as long as necessary. That was and is the starting point of the law which has been unanimously adopted here in this Chamber and also in the First Chamber. Several things are important here. First, that the public body Saint-Eustatius can develop into the robust organization that the Cabinet and your Chamber had in mind at the time of the procedure. Secondly, we can speak of a basis of good governance. In accordance with the Özütok motion, I urged the government Commissioner to draw up, in consultation with the island council of Saint-Eustatius, a timetable for the return to regular administrative relations. The Government Commissioner sent you a first set-up of that route time table last May. In addition, the Government Commissioner recently informed me that the detailed version of the route timetable was discussed with the island council behind closed doors on 22 September. However, the island council did not want to go into the substance of this issue and asked the government commissioner to propose the route time table in the island council. However, this meeting could not continue in the short term. The reason for this was that the island council was not entirely clear about the legal frameworks and what the powers were based on the law. The island council had given leave to the deputy clerk and the proposed replacement was contrary to the WolBES. Part of the route time table is to appoint target dates for the completion of the criteria set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Law Restoration Facilities Sint-Eustatius. This conclusion is necessary in order to move on to the next stage, including the transfer of powers to the Island Council. In anticipation of this process and in the context of my commitment to the House debate on 2 June last, the Government Commissioner also looked at possibilities for acceleration. A possibility has been found in bringing forward the training programme for politicians. That was one of the conditions. This programme will be launched this year, while it was originally planned for next year. However, this also applies: it takes two to tango. The Government Commissioner is also dependent on the cooperative attitude of the members of the island council. Recently, the island council rejected the rent regulation that had been in the island council for several months. As a result, the process is slowing down. In addition, one member of the island council has announced in the media that in future he will vote against all regulations that have a relationship with the intervention by the Netherlands, which he calls "an occupation." Since the island council has no budget right at the moment, it also does not want to be informed about finances. Mr. Chairman. I consider the willingness of the members of the island council to cooperate constructively and communicate with each other and with the government commissioner to be very important for the progress of the process. Let me be quite honest: this is not enough at the moment. At the moment, the island council is still talking a lot about the government commissioner, and little with the government commissioner. The members of the island council look up the press before any questions have been asked and the government commissioner is given the opportunity to respond. Rough, offensive words are used by a number of politicians. In my view, this is not really conducive to cooperation on the small island, nor is it conducive to achieving that next stage of the process. You can of course say: it takes too long, this procedure. But when no progress is made on these conditions, which are simply laid down in the law in this Chamber and by our cabinet, then you will not come to that next stage either. So at the moment I do not really see the desired attitude to speed up. That really comes from both sides. The island council should assume its responsibilities in this area. Once again, that is because those frameworks described in that law were adopted unanimously by both parliaments. In the end, that is also the framework that the government Commissioner in Saint-Eustatius must work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u81	Fine. Thank you. There is another question from Mr Ceder and then we can move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u82	I'm not taking sides. I hear the Secretary of State. I can remember a committee debate in which a motion on my part and a few other Members of Parliament was adopted. We asked in that motion to have a real conversation. I understand that conversation took place or would take place much later. You indicate that this was in September, but also that it is a period later than we would have agreed. You state that there is a grumpy among the members of the island council. Are you sure you'll be able to take part in the fact that I'm noticing? That is because we agreed here that there would be a quick discussion with the Commissioner and the island council members, that that agreement was obviously or has not been complied with or postponed, and that there is also a part of that grumpy. Can you acknowledge that? And can you also show some understanding of the fact that what we asked for during the committee debate was not entirely implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u83	I certainly agree with that last point made by Mr Ceder. If Mr Ceder were cranky, I would understand that. The agreement was that the route timetable would be there now and I have just explained that this is not the case. So I am very sorry, because I would have liked to see this too. It is a consultation to be held on Saint Eustatius between the government commissioner, her deputy and the island council. I note that the statements made there are very similar to those made three years ago, which led to the intervention. Those expressions of the island council simply place it outside the law, by calling it an occupation and no longer complying with the law. That's the problem. That was the problem then, in 2018, and that is perhaps even more so now. I would therefore also like to call for reflection. A law has been passed here in the House of Representatives; the body that deals with it has a number of very clear criteria. I'm willing to accelerate. The government commissioner is prepared to accelerate. But that also requires the island council to take the same gear. Otherwise, it's just not gonna happen. In view of the debate and the expectations that have been raised there, I can fully imagine your attitude. I've got that myself. I'd rather have that table by now. I hope it gets there soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u84	Clear. Mrs. De Vries still? I'd also like to be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u85	The chairman's in a hurry. A subject that didn't really fit into the cubes, but which was dealt with in the letter, is Bonaire International Airport. Of course, I could have done it with climate or sustainability, but I didn't think that was entirely appropriate either. I was actually a little disturbed by the passage in the letter on funding. It seemed to be said that enlargement and the restoration of security are only possible when the island is able to carry it financially. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at a city of 20,000 inhabitants who should keep an international airport in the air. Is that pure and merely a task of that congregation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u86	Bonaire owns the airport, so in that sense there is an important role to play. At the same time, you could say that the airport is the lifeline for the economy. In any case, it is important for tourism. So there is a business case to be made around that airport. The same applies to possible investments. I do not want to dwell too much on it during the debate on the budget of Kingdom relations, but the problem with some of the discussions on airports is, of course, that supply and demand are not fully balanced, causing losses. That is not in principle the issue at all on Bonaire. It's a well-functioning airport. The question of whether you would like to expand also has to do with the question I raised in a debate with Mrs Bromet: where do you want to go as an island? Do you want to grow heavily with your tourists or don't you want to? And what kind of airport goes with that? And if you ask if it is a pure and mere task of that congregation. In formal terms, the public body, but also the Ministry of IenW, could, of course, make a contribution on the basis of the principle of a long-term return on investment. When it comes to infrastructure, we have, of course, helped to finance many investments within the Envelope Region, which ultimately ensured access to the islands. Which, of course, is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u87	I'm sure there's a business case to be made. Apart from what you think of flying, this is indeed a lifeline for the island. We understand that there are also simply safety issues with the parking of the aircraft. If safety were to be compromised, this would have to be taken up as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u88	On that last point, I must remain guilty of the answer. I don't know anything about that. That does not mean that it is not, but it is also the responsibility of IenW. I'd be happy to see if I can find out and see if I can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u89	Fine. Then we'll have to pay for it. So much for the government's term. We're moving on to the second term. The first speaker is Mr De Graaf of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u90	Mr De Graaf has 20 seconds, so one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the other countries in the Kingdom are fully-fledged countries within the Kingdom;]] [[Whereas the decolonisation process has been legally completed;]] [[Whereas the social-emotional part of decolonization requires an autonomous situation;]] [[Whereas a crisis such as the present generates an excellent momentum to strengthen and further stimulate the maturity of the other countries;]] [[calls on the Government to use the consultations with the other countries to speed up the finalisation of the decolonisation process so that the other countries can leave the Kingdom in five years' time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for his reply. I always like to see how the involvement of all the spokesmen in the islands is reflected in the contributions. We may have some differences of opinion on the solutions, but I hope that we will deal with them with respect for each other. I think we all want to do the best for the people and the entrepreneurs on the islands. I hope we can hold on to that in the future. Then there's a few loose ends. Agriculture is a recurring subject. Mrs Van den Berg regularly comes back to this; so did my predecessor André Bosman. I really think it should be speeded up. It's all about doing research and fun pilots, putting in nice gardens and stuff like that. But let's really speed that up and see if we can take that seriously. I would like another response from the Secretary of State. The country packages. I hope that we can make the financial management of taxes a priority, but also of tackling corruption and all other security issues. Because I think that's an important basic condition. I would be sorry if we did not pay enough attention to this within those country packages. Mrs van den Berg will be tabling a motion on energy prices shortly, including on my behalf. Moreover, I still believe that we should look at the cost side, because I think it would be better if we lower it than we continue to subsidise income or utilities. More has already been said about the motion on minimum wage and security of living. D66 will be tabling a motion on this in a moment, including on our behalf. I think that's an important step. I would actually have liked it if the cabinet had just done that before 2022. Also in missionary status I would have found that perfectly justifiable, given the broad support for this in this House of Representatives. I have two more motions of my own, both of which concern financial management. Maybe that won't surprise people at all. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the General Court notes with regard to the BES Islands that there is a lack of attention to the structural financial impact of the improvements to be made with the special benefit, such as maintenance costs;]] [[noting, for example, that Saba has occasionally invested in improving waste management, but that insufficient account has been taken of structural costs;]] [[calls on the Government, if occasional investments are made in the BES islands, to always explicitly include and weigh the resulting structural expenditure, and to indicate by 1 April 2022 at the latest how this is implemented in the direction of the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Wuite.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u92	Mr. Chairman. Then my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is extremely worrying that Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius are either too late in preparing the annual accounts or that there is a denial of an opinion or a disapproving statement by the auditor;]] [[whereas the financial management of Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius is therefore still inadequate;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that financial management on Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius, including the annual accounts, is organised as quickly as possible (but no later than 2024) and to provide the necessary support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u94	Thank you. Then Mrs Wuite of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I would also, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for his genuinely motivated and involved reactions and explanations on various issues. Yesterday I spoke in my maiden speech about the "resilient state." I really do; I mean that. I also hope that these words will continue to resonate with the commitment and cooperation we will seek daily with each other, in favour and in order to improve people's positions on the Caribbean islands, by mutual agreement. I would almost like to advise the Secretary of State, also in response to my colleague's question about the results of the reforms: take this up. I'd almost say really in ownership. Maybe we should have a conference about it. With regard to the restoration of democracy on Saint Eustatius, I am concerned. I would hope that the Secretary of State will be able to promise that the motion, which has been dismissed in the documents, will be described as active and pendant again. In addition, I would like to move on to three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the decision on raising the minimum wage and benefits on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba was not taken in 2022 due to the missionary status of the cabinet;]] [[Whereas employers' and workers' organisations support the increase in the minimum wage and benefits on Bonaire and Saba and has been found, in consultation with St Eustatius, that an increase has not yet been considered;]] [[Considers that raising the minimum wage and benefits is also necessary in 2022 to combat poverty and stay on track in the timeline towards the social minimum benchmark;]] [[Calls on the Government to increase the minimum wage and benefits on Bonaire and Saba by 10% on 1 January 2022 and to finance this from the reduction of the IOAOW;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, for future steps to increase the statutory minimum wage and benefits towards the social minimum reference point, whether and, if so, how to increase the AOV retirement age, using the financial savings it provides for further steps to improve the income police of residents of the Caribbean Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wuite, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Ceder, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u96	It is a special benefit from social insurance. Why don't we agree to write it in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u97	No, no, no, that's fine. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u98	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cultural entrepreneurs in Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten need technical support and financing options;]] [[Whereas the cultural sector can make an important contribution to the diversification of the economy;]] [[considers that the cultural sectors of all four countries can support and enrich each other;]] [[calls on the government to explore the conditions under which the services of Culture+Entrepreneurship, which has also recently been made available to BES, can be opened to Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wuite, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Ceder, Mr Bromet and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u99	And last but not least. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that climate change affects the whole of the Kingdom, the Caribbean parts in particular;]] [[Whereas environmental protection is one of the objectives of Article 3 of the OCT Decision and Article 37 of the Staff Regulations provides that countries shall consult on matters of common concern to them;]] [[considers that the fight against climate change and its consequences are not sufficiently discussed in the Kingdom, nor are they included in the country packages;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss the fight against climate change and its consequences during the Prime Minister's talks and to strengthen its cooperation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wuite, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Ceder, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Bromet and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u100	That'll get me to the end. I've got a minute left. I would like to confirm that I greatly appreciate the cooperation. This was my first plenary debate, in which I also gave my maiden speech. I look forward to a new chapter for the Kingdom Relations. Special thanks to the President and the Secretary of State for his detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u101	On behalf of the Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for that. We also speak with one mouth tonight. Mrs. Kuik, you have one minute. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the members of the coalition parties on their efforts to raise a legal minimum wage and that they have found room for that. I'm not entirely happy with the cover for the first part. It may be a symbolic small amount, but it is about the poorest in the Netherlands. I think that's a little cynical. Anyway, I have to submit an alternative of my own. That's why I have one motion. We are still looking at a decent amendment to the Social Affairs and Employment budget to improve both the under standing and the statutory minimum wage. That'll come back later. That is also possible in the case of the budget. Then there's the motion. I wrote it out because I didn't have time to print because we're moving faster than we expected. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in the minimum wage and benefit on Bonaire, Saba and Statia is necessary to combat poverty;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to finance the increase in the minimum wage from the corona aid packages and to examine whether a cover for a further increase can be found at the AOV age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u103	I thank the Secretary of State for all the answers. I may be a bit fierce here and there, but as a daughter of a welfare mother, I am concerned about this wherever we are in the Kingdom, and I will continue to speak out for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u104	Very good. You have a question for Mrs. Chicken? You have the floor, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u105	Mrs Kuik, I am a little hurt that you feel the need to apologize for a very sincere emotion, which is addressed in a very unworthy manner. I would ask you not to do that. Your emotion was sincere and very appropriate. The qualifications that were then released were not appropriate. Maybe the maker will want to make an apology later. We'll see. But I hope you do not feel obliged to apologize for something that is actually lacking in this Chamber: genuine commitment, especially when it comes to this kind of abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u106	Thanks for the support. I do not apologize for my fervor. I'm just trying to add an extra layer to it: I'm not only so involved because I get a lot on the islands, but also because I can empathize a little bit incomparable, of course, in the greatness of what they run into every day. They have to make choices like, do I have a diaper or not? Can I buy food or not? Can we or can we not pay the rent this month? Do we even have a roof over our heads? And that does affect me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u107	Thank you. Then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, but of course I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for replying. For our part, at least all the support for the increase in both the minimum wage and the benefits on the islands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy prices have recently increased or will increase in both the European Netherlands and the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[considers that this leads to disproportionate negative effects in the already limited spending area of vulnerable families in the BES islands;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the development of compensatory measures for increased energy prices in the European Netherlands, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius, and Saba in the development of these measures in a similar way to that achieved with the corona aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Ceder, Mr Wuite and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u109	Mr. Chairman. I have already said that it is very important that young people are given perspective and that the islands can become more self-sufficient. Then it is more fun for young people to stay there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to further develop and diversify the economy in the BES Islands and that start-ups are important in this respect;]] [[Whereas the importance of becoming more self-sufficient should be borne in mind;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an agricultural education plan for primary education in the BES Islands;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the schemes for which start-ups in the BES islands are or are not eligible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Ceder and Mr Aukje de Vries.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u110	Mr President, I would at least like to thank you. Several motions have been tabled today by several people and I hope that we can continue to work together in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u111	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u112	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a recent Amnesty International report shows that asylum seekers are denied access to asylum procedures in Curaçao, that these asylum seekers are locked up without trial and that there is abuse and exploitation on a structural basis;]] [[noting that the Netherlands co-finances the border surveillance of Aruba and Curaçao and thereby contributes to a system in which structural human rights are violated;]] [[calls on the Government to make the support to Aruba and Curaçao border control conditional on the cessation of human rights violations and the granting of access to an asylum procedure in accordance with the UN Refugee Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u113	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not having a bsn for students from the Caribbean Netherlands makes it difficult to study in the European part of the Netherlands at a practical level;]] [[noting that research is already being carried out into the introduction of Bsn in the Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to complete the investigation into the introduction of Bsn in the Caribbean Netherlands as soon as possible and, if this study does not reveal any insurmountable contraindications, to refer the necessary legislative changes to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Wuite, Mr Ceder and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u114	Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u115	A question from Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u116	I find this last motion very valuable, because it is very difficult to make all kinds of things possible. It is a good thing that the point is being made and I would therefore like to sign with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u117	Of course. My left-wing friend of the PvdA can always participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u118	Very good. Then I'll give you a pen and you can write your name underneath. A piece of service. Then Mr Cedar of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the exchange, too. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no overall picture of the nature and extent of trafficking in human beings in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom and that the cabinet therefore intends to use it to strengthen the information position;]] [[noting that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings in the European Netherlands points out, reports and advises on developments in the field of trafficking in human beings, but has no mandate in the BES islands or in the countries;]] [[Whereas a review of the memorandum or understanding of cooperation to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is taking place in the Kingdom in 2022;]] [[calls on the Government, in the run-up to the revision of that Memorandum of Understanding, to consider how to improve the alerting and handling of trafficking in human beings and the reception of victims, including the National Rapporteur and possible extension of his mandate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u120	Mr. Chairman. In addition, we know that the surcharges for electricity, water and telecommunications will stop at the end of the year. I hope we can find a solution, but I also know that we need to be with EZK for that. Could I get a letter from the Ministry prior to EZK's budget on how much it will cost us occasionally? Then I'll see what's possible with the EZK spokesmen. I hope you agree with me that this is something we need to look at, so that the islanders are not duplicated in terms of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u121	Thank you. Then Mrs Koekkoek from the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u122	Thank you and, of course, thanks to the Secretary of State for his answers. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rights of Venezuelan refugees in Curaçao are not adequately protected;]] [[Whereas the protection procedure in Curaçao referred to in Article 3 of the ECHR does not comply with international standards, that in many cases obtaining legal aid for refugees is not possible and that refugees, including children, are put into detention under substandard conditions or returned to their country of origin without a valid procedure;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Netherlands should ensure the safeguarding of human rights and freedoms;]] [[calls on the Government to provide support to civil society in order to combat human rights violations;]] [[calls on the Government to use the necessary technical assistance, experience and expertise to assist Curaçao in addressing the above issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Wuite, Mr Simons, Mr Bromet and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u123	The next motion, very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Amnesty International published on 11 October 2021 the report "Still not safe: Venezuelans will not be protected in Curaçao';]] [[Whereas, according to this report, the Netherlands has not sufficiently committed itself to the protection of human rights of Venezuelan refugees in Curaçao;]] [[Calls on the Government to send a written response to the findings of the report to the Chamber within two months, paying particular attention to the recommendations;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss this written response with the countries of the Kingdom in the next periodic consultations of the Human Rights Convention Committee, and to share the results of such consultations with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Wuite, Mr Simons, Mr Bromet and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In conclusion to this constructive debate, three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the independent countries within this Kingdom, namely Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, have been disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic than the European Netherlands;]] [[noting that they have received loans, in the form of liquidity support, to cope with the fatal social and economic blows of the global corona crisis;]] [[Whereas such liquidity support is necessary in order to survive the corona crisis, not to push the population further into poverty and to continue to provide the most basic necessities of life;]] [[Considering that the economies of the independent countries have not yet recovered from the corona crisis, that the corona crisis has already experienced great poverty, and that the obligation to repay liquidity aid which the independent countries need to cope with the economic consequences of the crisis in the coming years has been swallowed up;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the repayment obligation of the independent countries with regard to liquidity support can be waived,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the large-scale poverty in Aruba, Curaçao and St Maarten required food aid for a quarter of the population during the corona crisis;]] [[having noted that this food aid was financed by the Netherlands until 1 October 2021, but since 1 October it has been for the independent countries themselves to continue the much-needed food aid;]] [[Whereas the independent countries have taken up the continuation of food aid, but their economies have far from recovered from the corona crisis, which raises the question of their ability to continue this aid independently in 2022;]] [[Whereas support for the most vulnerable groups in their primary needs is not yet structurally invested;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to finance the necessary humanitarian aid (such as food aid, shelter and medical care) at least by 2022 in view of the emergency situation of people in poverty in the independent countries, and to ensure basic needs for all on the islands (including undocumented ones),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u125	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch education tells a one-sided story about the Dutch colonial past;]] [[noting that freedom fighters and resistance heroes, such as Tula, are therefore underexposed and unknown in the Netherlands while as an example of Black Dutch anticolonial resistance they belong in the history books;]] [[Considering that not only do we lose an archive of stories about Black leadership, talent and resistance, but also the collective memory of what we have endured as a society, where we come from and how that history colors our present;]] [[calls on the government to make more room in the budget for the excavation, expansion and archiving of stories about resistance fighters and resistance heroes against the Dutch colonial regime, and to outsource such research to representative organisations from the Caribbean Netherlands and organisations such as The Black Archives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-IV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u127	Thank you. Then I'll suspend until 7:10. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u128	I call the Secretary of State for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u129	Thank you for the contribution of Members in the second term. A number of questions have been asked to me. I would like to answer that first before I come to an assessment of the motions. Mr Ceder asked if a letter could be drawn up on the cost of the energy subsidy for the BES islands, so that he could use it in the budget treatment of EZK. I would be happy to pass that question on to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the request to the Ministry to inform you about it before the budget is discussed. Mrs Simons and Mrs Wuite asked about the 3 million of the Red Cross. I can tell you that, on the basis of the budget, there is in fact an amount of 3.5 million left over from the emergency aid granted to the Red Cross. I indicated earlier that the Red Cross does not want to continue with the continuation of emergency aid, because the organisation does not see this as its task. That concludes the project and we have assumed that responsibility with the countries. Eventually, the countries are going to do so themselves. The general cabinet line for these initiatives and subsidies of corona funds is that everything that is not spent on the basis of the budget returns to the state treasury. The same applies to this scheme. There is therefore no possibility of asking for an exception. So that goes back to the Treasury Department. Then there is Mrs Wuite's question on the status of the Özütok motion. You literally asked, "Can that pendant stay?" Well, the operative part was that the government commissioner would be encouraged to draw up a route time table in consultation. That's what she's doing. That is what has been done, and also the request I made to her with the motion in hand. And I also assume that that route time table will be there soon, following a consultation between island councils and government commissioner. I therefore consider this motion to be dismissed. That doesn't give us that route time table yet, but it's on its way. Mrs De Vries asked about the status of Bonaire International Airport and the security issues that might play there. It is true that the Inspection Environment and Transport supervises the safety of the airport. I have been told that some safety issues have indeed been identified, for example, about the location of aircraft. It is primarily up to the airport itself and the public body to address the shortcomings. If Mrs De Vries has any further questions about this, I would like to pass them on to the Ministry of IenW, and ask the people there to inform you about it. I see Mrs De Vries nodding, so I suggest that we do so. I come to the questions about agriculture. I understand them very well, because they've been playing for a number of years. Mrs De Vries asks: can't it go any faster, because it's all taking so long? The point is that there are a lot of opportunities and sometimes it takes some time to start some of these projects. Surely Corona didn't help either. And yet steps are being taken. At the moment there is also a project leader at Bonaire working at the LVV department. There's training and production. It's small-scale and it goes step by step: it does. I welcome this in itself, because I do not think that a very large scale leap is going to bring the solution at once. But it's also quite challenging from time to time. That has to do with acquaintance and so on. In any case, I will pass on Mrs De Vries' cri du coeur to LNV's colleague. I know she looks at it the same way. And also in the contacts we have with the public body, we will continue to encourage Bonaire to make progress on this issue, also within the framework of the administrative agreement. I'll be on the motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u130	I thought there was also a question from Mrs Simons about the Red Cross. You said you'd come back to that. No, I hear it's already been answered. Okay, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u131	I'd even started that, Mr. Chairman. I come first to the motion on the completion of the decolonization process, the motion in part No. 9. I have to discourage this motion. Self-decision means that the countries themselves have it at their disposal. It would be highly inappropriate to insist on this in a consultation or to initiate such a consultation. Nor do I think it is constructive in the light of the introduction that I have just made and which dealt with how I look at cooperation and relations within the Kingdom. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as has already been said, the Van Raak motion is simply being arrested. This is just getting started. That is about how we deal with each other within the Kingdom and how the relationships are. But I must advise against this motion. Then there is Mrs De Vries' motion for a resolution on occasional investments, which should also take account of structural expenditure, which should be taken more seriously into account. I have already indicated that I share the criticism of the Court of Auditors on this point. That also means that I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs De Vries's 11 concerns the financial situation or, rather, the financial management at Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius. There is still much to improve, she says. I agree with her. It is, by the way, a process that takes some time and we are on top of it. But I regard this motion in a way as a support for the matters we are doing and I can therefore give her a Chamber of Justice judgment. The motion in part No. 12 by Mrs Wuite, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Ceder and Mrs De Vries, on increasing benefits and minimum wage on Bonaire and Saba as of 1 January 2022. I have already indicated in the debate that there is not someone here who is opposed to the Chamber on this point, quite the contrary. I believe and I thought that we should step by step raise the social minimum, against the background that we should also look at the costs. It is up to a new cabinet to implement this in a new phase, but I still see this motion as a support for the steps that have been taken in recent times and, above all, for the steps that still have to be taken. I can therefore leave the judgement to the Chamber, which I shall base on it, because it is easy for me to say that it is properly covered in the SZW budget by means of an amendment. In the motion in part No. 13 Ms Wuite asked the government to explore the conditions under which the services of Culture+Entrepreneurship could be opened to Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. I can say that the cultural sector plays an important role, including in the diversification of the economy. Many initiatives have also been taken. I am in favour of exploring what framework conditions can be opened up. However, it does affect the policy area of my colleague from OCW, so my proposal to Mrs Wuite would be to hold this motion until that budget has been in place and to vote on it only after the Minister of OCW has been able to say something about it. But I'm not against it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u132	I am looking at you, Mrs. Wuite, because it is suggested that you hold the motion. Then the question is whether you are actually holding the motion or not. You don't have to, but... Yeah, that's parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u133	Yeah, I'm learning and exploring, and you're keeping me in the loop. I understand so far that... We have submitted it to the Minister of OCW: there is support for that. That is why I would like to continue the motion, if this is the way to do it. We have submitted the motion to the Minister and also to the Secretary of State for a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u134	I'm very sympathetic to it, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u135	It has to do with this economic diversification. May I continue the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u136	That just keeps the motion. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u137	I suggested we stop her. Normally, you have to discourage a motion that is not being held, but I find that somewhat difficult in this situation, because I am sympathetic to the motion. If you say the Minister of OCW has already agreed, who am I to discourage this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u138	I get a very good tip from a colleague, namely that I get a little confirmation of the verdict before the votes. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u139	Yeah, that sounds like the purest thing to me, to be honest. The opinion of the Minister of OCW then. Then the motion to part No. 14 on climate and sustainability. That is an important subject. Mrs Wuite is asking for this to be taken up together in the Kingdom and for this to be done before the Prime Minister's meeting. I think it is right that this issue should also be discussed at the Kingdom level. The question is whether the Prime Minister's meeting is the most appropriate. I would like to make that point. I can also imagine that the most concerned rulers of the countries will first sit down for this. But I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 15, from Mrs. Chicken. It calls on the government to do more or less the same thing as in the motion on item No. 12, by Mrs. Wuite. Only, she indicated in the debate that she has a different coverage for that. Quite apart from the fact that this motion falls outside the budget of the KR, which also applies to your motion, the fact that the cover is incidental is precisely the reason why I have to discourage this motion, although this motion is sympathetic and certainly can count on the same sympathy from me in terms of objective. Then the motion to part No. 16, by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Ceder, Mr Wuite and Mr De Vries. It calls on the Government to include in the development of compensatory measures for increased energy prices in the European Netherlands, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba in the development of these measures in the same way as the Corona aid. We have just mentioned in this debate that the cost side is really a problem. It therefore seems to me entirely reasonable that this should be taken into account in the current discussion. For that reason, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 17, on an agricultural education plan. I would like to say the following. I agree with what is stated in that motion with regard to the considerations and objectives. We have talked about diversification of the economy before. Of course, there are already alternative arrangements to enable start-ups via Qredits. But the part of the motion that deals with the development of an agricultural education plan for primary education in the BES islands affects the policy area of the colleague, the minister of OCW. So unless Mrs Van den Berg now says that she has also heard that the Minister of OCW is in favour of this, I would ask her to hold this motion and then ask for that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u140	Mrs Van den Berg nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u141	Then the motion to part No. 18. calling on the Government to make the support to Aruba and Curaçao border control conditional on the cessation of human rights violations and the granting of access to the asylum procedure in line with the UN Refugee Convention. I must advise against this motion, because it contains a number of assumptions which are not correct. One. The Dutch services are not responsible for and do not take part in the implementation of the foreign policy of the countries. That's an autonomous country matter. Two. On the contrary, the starting point of the Dutch support has always been to create a well-functioning foreign chain that complies with international conventions and regulations. The Dutch support therefore does not contribute to alleged human rights violations. Third. Curaçao is not a member of the UN Refugee Convention. It is up to Curaçao to decide whether it wants to join or not. There is no doubt that human rights must be respected. In the support that the Netherlands offers and in conversations that exist between the Netherlands, Aruba and Curaçao, we ask for attention to put the foreign policy in order. Although the thought is sympathetic, I must discourage this motion because of its wording. Then the motion to part No. 19, on the bsn for Caribbean students. That's a problem that's been going on for a long time, and I recognize it. I actually see this motion as more support than a proposal to change the policy. You also know that I intend to introduce the Bsn there. This requires only a legislative process that takes some time. So there are no quick solutions here. I only see it as support and can therefore leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 20, by Mr Ceder. It calls on the Government to consider, in the run-up to the revision of the Memorandum of Understanding, how to improve the alert in dealing with trafficking in human beings and the reception of victims, involving the National Rapporteur and a possible extension of his mandate. In answering the questions, I have already referred to the mandate of the National Rapporteur. The revision of the MoU, the reception of victims and a possible extension of the mandate of the National Rapporteur in the Caribbean Netherlands are in the area of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. An evaluation of the Institute National Rapporteur is currently taking place. It will be completed in the first quarter of next year. That seems to me to be a very foreseeable deadline. My request would therefore be to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u142	Mrs. Wuite inspired me. Could I not continue the motion and get an appreciation from the cabinet? Because I don't think anyone can be against it. Then I don't have to be at JenV's debate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u143	I don't think it's a problem to ask for an appreciation. The answer will probably be "we'll take it with us in the evaluation and then you'll hear about it" or something. But that's up to the Secretary of State for JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u144	It's a new style figure: asking for an appreciation of the entire cabinet. But it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u145	It will have something to do with the coordinating role, I think. This has also been explicitly mentioned in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u146	It's popular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u147	Then I come to the motion on part No. 21 by Mrs Koekkoek. It calls on the government to provide support to civil society in order to combat human rights violations and to use the necessary technical assistance, experience and expertise to assist Curaçao in addressing the above issues. The cabinet is already implementing this motion where assistance is concerned. In the JenV budget, 3.6 million was made available to optimise the foreign chain in Curaçao. This is also in response to the request for assistance made by Curaçao itself in 2019. Various projects with the involvement of the IND, the Return and Departure Service and the Marechaussee have been carried out in the past period and are still in progress. A follow-up to document training and deepening courses on Article 3 of the ECHR and assistance in hearing and decision-making procedures is being developed from the Netherlands. We're already doing that part of the motion. Strengthening civil society in Curaçao is, as far as I am concerned, a real responsibility of the country of Curaçao itself. As the Netherlands, we should not interfere in this. I really see that as an assignment and task of the authorities in Curaçao. So I must discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mrs Koekkoek. It calls on the government, in addition to what I have now done orally, to respond in writing to the report. I can promise you to do that. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I shall now come to Mrs Simons' motion on item No. 23. It requests that consideration be given as to whether the liquidity support can be cancelled. At present, all these liquidity loans are provided at 0% interest rates and countries do not have to pay off. That does not, therefore, create any additional pressure on the budget at the moment. The redemption obligations resulting from that liquidity support shall be aligned with the financial capacity. So we are not going to overstretch by asking now to pay back something that the countries are not yet able to repay. As has been said, we are officially engaged in discussions with the countries to see how we are moving forward. I don't want to burden those conversations with this in any way. I want to be able to have that conversation with the countries first. In the end, it will be up to the next cabinet to make final agreements with the countries on how to deal with this. I must discourage the motion for that reason. Then I come to the motion on part No. 24. Moreover, in view of the emergency situation of people in poverty in the independent countries, the government is invited to continue to finance, at least in 2022, the "autonomous" countries, because "independent" is something else under state law to finance the necessary humanitarian aid and guarantee basic living needs for all on the islands. This really falls within the responsibility of the countries themselves. It is precisely these basic needs and social services that are a national responsibility. The countries do have the possibility to borrow at 0% interest through liquidity support at the moment. But we agreed that we would end the acute food aid, emergency aid, because it was related to an acute emergency. That doesn't mean there's no need for support anymore. We can deliver them, too. But it's going to be a national responsibility now. Through liquidity support, countries can still finance it themselves. It also depends on how one wants to do it in each country. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u148	The motion has, of course, been tabled with the hope that we will not impose additional liquidity support on the countries. I appreciate the Secretary of State's constant emphasis on asking for 0% interest on these loans, but they are loans. We have to get the money back. The structural problems on the islands have not been solved within one, two, three, four or five years. In any case, this puts pressure on the budget of the countries. I also appreciate that I would like to say that the Secretary of State respects the autonomy of the countries and says that he does not want to take part in what is their responsibility. The motion has been tabled to see what we can do, in addition to liquidity support, which is ultimately just a loan, 0% interest or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u149	I understand Mrs Simons' question very well. If there is a need for a man or a woman, but that is the proverb, then we will help. This emergency aid, both emergency medical aid and food aid, has been made available to the countries as a gift. This has lasted over a year, almost a year and a half in total. We have announced at an early stage that as the economies are attracting again and the countries are getting more income, it is becoming less and less emergency aid and more structural social services, special assistance, or whatever you want to call it in the countries. We have also agreed on this with the countries, so there is no discussion that we can help if there is a real need, but now the countries will be able to finance it under very favourable conditions, if they need it. That's a choice of countries. We should not want to go into that. And it is true, Mrs Simons is right, that this is the fault. That touches on the earlier motion of yours, which, unfortunately, I had to advise against. In due course we will discuss this with the countries in due course, and I am well aware of that, but we must distinguish between emergency emergency aid in the form of gifts and social services, safety net facilities that the countries must organise for their own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u150	I ask this because I have some difficulty with the differentiation between acute emergency aid, when there is actually structural need. There's just need. It is not acute because of a natural disaster, but it is structural and it is real, big need. My question is what the Secretary of State would propose if I were looking for a solution that respects structural needs and therefore does not intervene in the debt of loans that are incurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u151	Our proposal, which is part of the agreements with the countries and the country packages, is also to raise the level of social protection for people with low incomes. It differs from one country to another. You can't put all three countries together exactly. That's part of those country packages. When I talk about combating inequality and reducing the gap between rich and poor, I also indicated earlier in the debate that I think it is our duty to point out to the countries that we should regulate it in a structural manner. You are absolutely right that it is not something of the short breath but of the longer term, but you must now implement it as a country. Even if we were to go on for another six months or a year, poverty has still not been resolved in some areas. This has to do with your whole socio-economic structure, training, offering people opportunities in a labour market, economic development, etc., etc. So that's really a country matter. We would like to help with that. The COHO and the country packages can play an important role in this. I see this as a solution to tackle this problem, which has really not been resolved in the short term, and we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u152	Then the motion to part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u153	The motion in part No. 25 calls on the government to make more room in the budget for the excavation, expansion and archiving of stories about freedom fighters and resistance heroes against the Dutch colonial regime, and to outsource such research to representative organizations from the Caribbean Netherlands and organisations such as The Black Archives. In my introduction, I have already said something about how important I think this is, but this is a motion which I would ask Mrs Simons to take on board. It is again the budget of OCW. It really belongs to the Minister of OCW. Of course, we can use the same technique, which we already ask at the front what she thinks of it, but I am not in a position at the moment to find any of it. If you keep it until the budget of OCW and then put it to the vote, that seems to me to be the purest way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u154	I will. I understand this reaction from the Secretary of State, although I do have difficulty thinking that the Secretary of State does not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u155	Well, I'll find something. I find a lot. Only, I'm not standing here as a person, I'm standing here as a ruler. My ministerial responsibility does not go beyond what we are talking about here, the budget of Kingdom relations. In my introduction, I made it quite clear that I do agree with it and that I have had experience of it myself, but I do not think it is up to me, at this moment in my formal position, to judge it. I think you'll hear enough about that, sort of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u156	I can accept this answer, Mr President, and will indeed continue or re-table the motion by the same construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u157	Did the motion just get pulled over with this? I hear a "yes." Then it's under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mr. Chairman. Finally, in my perhaps last budgetary treatment of Kingdom relations as Mrs Kuik said yesterday, who knows, may I take advantage of the opportunity to thank all those people that day in, day out working on the lives and well-being of the people in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom to improve the lives of those people? Over the past few years I've seen more than a thousand people in my visits.It must have been a lot more than a thousand that I've talked to and met, what kind of heroes on the islands are running around and active. I am thinking of Christina Hodge in the Dutch Quarter on St.Maarten, Desi Pinedo of Shelterrock Paradise or the people of the women's shelter in Aruba, but also of the people in care, education and law enforcement. Many unknown heroes I've been allowed to meet. I got infected with a virus, in this case the Caribbean virus, of warmth, family, friendship. I've grown to love the people and the islands because I've met them. I think that is also the story of Mrs Simons: if you want to learn to understand each other, you can also appreciate each other. I consider it a great privilege that I have been able to gain that experience in recent years. I admit the grif: my view of the Kingdom has changed and enriched. I would like to thank all my officials, the administrators and the police I have worked with and the members of the Chamber for their insights and for their involvement, because that is something we all have in common. I would also like to give everyone a message: work together, Huntu, and respect each other, but go step by step to fight inequality and injustice and give real substance to the autonomy that has been fought. Serve the people. It's been a pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u159	Thank you. It's a nice closure. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-14.u160	We shall vote on the various motions the first Tuesday after the autumn recess. I shall close the sitting on 14 October.
