ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35429, adaptation of certain laws implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on enhanced cooperation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in short the EOM Introduction Act. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Wely on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Nanninga and JA21 Group believe that fraud, corruption and other financial malpractices should be tackled hard. From that point of view, you could be positive about a bill implementing the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office in Dutch legislation. But we have some objections. Firstly, national criminal law. The European Public Prosecutor's Office should make it possible to combat fraud with EU funds more effectively, but criminal law has traditionally been one of the key areas of competence of Member States. The term Public Prosecutor alone marks the path the EU is taking. In order to combat fraud, cooperation between Member States is not stepped up or a unit is set up to coordinate it. No, there's got to be an institution with the label "Public Ministry" right away. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is competent to investigate, prosecute and bring to national courts offences affecting the financial interests of the European Union. The creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office is once again a restriction on our national sovereignty. There's more power going to Brussels. It is difficult for Brussels to be democratically controlled. Of course, tackling cross-border crime, such as drugs and trafficking in human beings, deserves high priority. There are therefore different forms of cooperation between countries, including for fraud involving EU funds. My group is in favour of this method. A national approach with sensible coordination is preferable to the creation of a new institution. There is a sliding scale as we see it at the European Central Bank, to mention a disastrous example. EU institutions tend to interpret their mandates widely and gradually broaden them. There is no cabinet and no parliament, because it is happening in secret and there will never be an opportunity to draw a line once: up to here and no further. Before you know it, there is a new proposal to include a new area in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In the Lower House there are already voices to tackle cross-border serious crime at European level. As soon as Brussels gets a foot in the door somewhere, that door will open again sooner or later. This is a dead letter after all. I think of an old anecdote over a country where olives grow above and below ground, so that they can be double subsidised. Instead of naming which Member States require particular attention, calling them politically and tackling notorious fraudsters by shutting down the money supply, the solution is to set up an organisation for all Member States. Instead of fighting a culture of fraud, a new structure is being established. So it's a dead letter. As can be expected, the Netherlands is full of gas to neatly decorate everything. Is there a reduction in the fraud rate in the Member States because there is now a formal European Public Prosecutor's Office? The wish is the father of thought. Then the question is how independent the European Public Prosecutor's Office is. My group believes that we are opening the door here to a European FBI. National States may only investigate certain criminal matters with the agreement of Brussels. As has already been said, my group believes that criminal matters fall within the domain of national states. We do not need a European Public Prosecutor's Office for that. In addition, there are real doubts about the de facto independence of this proposed European Public Prosecutor's Office. There are undoubtedly checks and balances on paper, but we know that the so-called internal workings of European machinery are more strongly influenced by power relations within the European Union. We recall budgetary discipline. On paper the signatures of the Member States are underneath, in practice they are always the same weak brothers who, usually protected by the Franco-German axis, break all the rules. Mr. Chairman. Why should these relations of power, this political influence, not affect the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? It is perhaps not at all in the interests of certain countries to investigate corruption. In Brussels they know who to put some pressure on and that it is useful to call Berlin or Paris. To sum up and conclude, it will be no surprise that our group is not in favour of this bill. Sweden, Hungary, Poland, Ireland and Denmark do not participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as my group is concerned, the Netherlands also shares this view. Criminal law is a matter for and for national Member States. That's what it's supposed to be. This principle must not be sneaking under the flag of anti-fraud with EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Wely. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like to see the Minister raise all his thumbs. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, the EOM, will be there and the Netherlands will participate. This has been discussed at length and the SGP has always indicated that we are not enthusiastic about this movement. We are not going to repeat this debate in its entirety. That would also make little sense, because even rejecting the present legislative proposal will not lead to the termination of the Dutch participation in the EOM. The EU caravan is therefore moving forward unflinchingly. In this sense, I will make my contribution concisely today, partly because we have had a generous written discussion. Of course, fraud is reprehensible for the SGP. This also applies to fraud involving European subsidies. There is no debate on this, the only question is how these fraudsters should be detected. For the SGP, the first logical question is why the Dutch OM cannot do this adequately in cooperation with prosecuting authorities in other EU countries, without therefore transferring new powers to European level. The Minister's written reply does not help much, nor does it give us much comfort. The Minister says that there is no question that the national prosecuting authorities are not up to their tasks. It is only expected that an EPPO will make the fight against fraud more effective. Is this not, and remains, a very poor justification for transferring serious national powers, all the more so because similar movements in the past show, above all, that much more transfer of national powers to the EU is conceivable and desirable by relying on hoped effectiveness? Isn't that always the end of the song we've put in? And how real is this expectation of greater effectiveness? I am thinking only of health care, formally not least a national matter, but suddenly the purchase of vaccines turned out to be an entirely European matter. Well, we knew that. Does this work infectiously? Mr. Chairman. How is the EM's expectations monitored? When has this expectation been fulfilled in the Minister's opinion? How many things must the EPPO have brought to a successful conclusion in order to be able to speak of success? And then, of course, we have to deal with fraud cases that could not have been detected through cooperation between national investigation bodies. What concrete results should therefore have been achieved and how is this reported to the Chambers? And if the EOM isn't going to fly, what's plan B? Finally. Is the Minister satisfied that the mandate of the EPPO is not being sneaked up? What risks does the Minister see here and how can we act on them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Adriaansen, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Van Dijk said, the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be there. The extent of fraud involving European subsidies, import duties and turnover taxes has been decisive. With a European approach, we expect to be able to work better together on this fraud approach. We, as Member States, are not getting enough to deal with this fraud. It's a lot of money that ends up in the wrong pockets. In the explanatory statement, the Minister states that EUR 470 million is being cheated each year with subsidies. The Chief Prosecutor, Ms Kövesi, talks about a damage to VAT fraud of between EUR 30 billion and EUR 60 billion per year. That's really huge. However, as Mr Van Dijk has said, it is not about the introduction of the EOM today, because that is what is happening. It has already been established and the Netherlands joined on 1 August 2018. Today, we are talking about a law that will ensure the proper implementation of the EOM Regulation, so that it will work. That is why we should not delay any longer, because, as has been said, it is a lot of money. My group would like to hear from the Minister when he expects us to see the first results. Because I understand that there are still some start-up problems left and right. Mr. Chairman. To monitor subsidiarity, the First and Second Chambers discussed in detail what the EPPO is and is not about, what we do and what we do with each other and what we want to leave at national level. My group welcomes the Minister's several confirmations that there is no question of extending these powers. The perhaps unnecessary motion by Van Dam to watch over this enlargement gives an additional guarantee. Mr. Chairman. One point of attention is the cooperation between the various bodies at European level which are all engaged in the fight against fraud, for example the relationship between the EPPO and OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office. OLAF conducts investigations, develops anti-fraud policies for the European Commission and assists Member States in their approach. The difference between OLAF and the EPPO is that OLAF really leaves the direction to the Member States and can take over the EPPO cases. In order to ensure proper cooperation between these two bodies, the European Commission has proposed amending Regulation 83/2013. Provisions are introduced for the proper exchange of information so that OLAF's and the EPPO's activities are complementary and do not overlap. However, the Netherlands abstained from voting on that proposal because it did not agree with the mandate given to OLAF with regard to VAT fraud and, in particular, access to banking data. However, the EPPO must ensure that this VAT fraud is dealt with. My group would like to hear from the Minister how he views the cooperation between OLAF and the EPPO, for example in the fight against VAT carousels. How does the Netherlands deal with OLAF's access to bank data or the EPPO? My group would also like to know what the relationship is between the EOM and EUROFISC. This is the new European body to combat VAT fraud. So there are quite a lot of organisations active in this area. We appreciate some of the Minister's reflections. Mr. Chairman. We sincerely hope that the EPPO will be effective in the areas agreed upon and that we will reduce fraud and money laundering. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u9	You end with the question of effectiveness. In the first part of your speech, you mentioned that too. I also saw some legitimate questions from the VVD in the written procedure. You ask for the expected results. You ask the Minister: when is it a success now; when have we not done it all for nothing? Was the VVD spokesperson satisfied with the answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u10	I think we all know that it's complicated to be very concrete about the results when you start something new. It is in line with the expectation that we will expose more fraud cases, try more people and get more money back. That will therefore be very important for us in the forthcoming evaluation. In any case, I have been reassured by the Minister that it is being closely monitored. So we are satisfied with the process, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u11	It's an expectation. That is not in itself a very solid basis for transferring important powers. Can the VVD spokesperson say when it is a success in her eyes or in the eyes of her party? When is it worth rejecting the powers? What's she supposed to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u12	We are informed of the results every year, as we understand. It is also reasonable to give the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Mrs Kövesi and her people time to achieve results, but we would be delighted if, after a year, the first signs of a successful fraud approach could be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u13	I would like to take up what Mr Van Dijk said about the expectations we can have. You yourself indicated that it is estimated that 5 billion of VAT carousel fraud is committed every year. The Dutch public prosecutor at the EOM in Luxembourg has indicated that she hopes to get 55 million as a budget. If it is so difficult to get 55 million from the European Union, what is it like to bring in 50 billion? That is not a sign of any confidence in success. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr Van Wely is addressing a good issue. In the written procedure, a number of issues relating to the financing of the EPPO were raised by the Minister. You are now addressing another issue, because I think that was the funding of the Netherlands and what is available for the EOM budget. On the issue of finance, I am also very practical. It's a matter they have to solve themselves. We have to ask whether it works and if it doesn't work or that's the budget. But you should actually put this question primarily to the Minister and not to me, because I am not in charge of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u15	I understand that you are not talking about the budget, but I was more concerned about the extent to which you see that confidence. Do you see that trust or don't you see it? The follow-up question I would like to ask is: do you agree with me that you might need to add some performance indicators to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u16	The good news is that we have made very concrete proposals for evaluation factors and that they have been taken over by the Minister in the written procedure. So I am content that we have the same picture of what indicators are for determining success. Then I'm going back to your first question about finances. We will also have to see if the budget is adequate. As far as I have read in all the documents in which that has been mentioned, there is no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u17	Then one last small question. The Minister wrote in the reply: we will see what it will bring. But we must first invest money and surrender sovereignty. Don't you find that somewhat disappointing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u18	In my view, I have just indicated that the Minister has confirmed in her response that these will be the indicators we have proposed or put into practice. That gives me sufficient confidence to look forward to the first results of the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u19	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to look back at the origin of the EOM, because that is inextricably linked to what we are talking about today. The creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office originates from the fight against fraud involving EU funds. "According to the Commission's report on the protection of the Union's financial interests in 2017, despite the current legal framework, fraud on the expenditure and revenue side is likely to occur for an amount of EUR 467 million. The actual amount may be even higher, as not all cases are detected and reported." Mr. Chairman. The SP has always been clear about fraud: you have to track down criminals and bring them to justice, including criminals who fraud with EU funds. But why did it have to do with a new EU entity to be set up with which the EU itself will detect fraud? That has still not become clear to me. The explanation given by the government in the explanatory memorandum and the answer to the questions in the House of Representatives does not help me much. The government says this about it: "The decisive consideration for including a passage in the government agreement on the EPPO has been the fact that EU fraud is often of a cross-border nature and is often also related to organised crime. Intensive cooperation between Member States in the fight against this extensive form of crime with EU funds is therefore inevitable, including for the effectiveness of criminal investigations in the Netherlands. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the establishment of the EPPO will give an important impetus to this process, particularly in those Member States where there is currently a lack of enforcement in this area." But the decisive argument for this cabinet is that intensive cooperation only seems to be possible through a new EU entity with new powers. At least that's remarkable. If you have friends who don't want to deal with fraud, then you have to ask yourself if you have the good friends and maybe you should do something about it. The cabinet wanted to send a signal, but this is a very complicated and far-reaching signal. Another reflection of the cabinet is also amazing: "The establishment of the EPPO will, in the opinion of the Cabinet, give a significant impetus to this, particularly in those Member States where there is currently a lack of enforcement in this area." However, the question is why there is an enforcement deficit in those Member States. Don't they want or can't they? And in which countries is there such a lack of enforcement? Don't you have some other way to fix that? The detour chosen with the EOM, because the required unanimity prevented another solution, is a signal in itself. Should we not simply note that some countries simply do not want to cooperate, not even to end fraud with EU funds, and that the EPPO will not help in doing so? How does it deal with EU fraud in non-participating countries: Hungary, Poland, Ireland, Sweden and Denmark with their opt-out? How's it going over there? What the SP sees is, above all, a complex reasoning that has helped a new EU institution. Everything must then be taken out of the closet to ensure that the institute does not become an end in itself. It is therefore very doubtful whether this will bring what is foreseen into the implementation process. Isn't it reality that exists only on paper? I would also like to hear a commitment from the Minister, Mr Delors, to ensure that there are no successes, successes that we could have achieved otherwise, but are now attributed to the EOM in order to make it a success. Mr. Chairman. How seriously is the Netherlands going to implement the contribution to the EOM? The Dutch Food and War Authority is in a kind of permanent state of scrutiny, because it cannot handle its tasks and the Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service also deals with the shoes. How important should I then see a Dutch contribution in support of the EPPO? Our own Public Prosecutor's Office is also understaffed. We can't even handle the work in the Netherlands, but as a signal there has to be capacity to the EOM. I can't rhyme with it. I don't think you're gonna throw in the bomb squad. How does the cabinet keep the implementation of the motion of my SP predecessor Senator Wezel up to date? How is it implemented? That was not a call for a one-off contribution, that would be too easy. How are the Chambers informed about this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I am also curious whether or not the opinion of the EPPO to prosecute for the Dutch prosecutor will become a kind of beacon on which the prosecutor will sail to prosecute himself or not. Is the EPPO not threatening to become an excuse, given the capacity problems that the prosecution itself knows? "If the EOM doesn't think it's important enough to prosecute, then neither do we as a Dutch OM." I'd like a response from the Minister. The cabinet devotes a great deal of time to the European Commission's desire for enlargement. The European Council has yet to examine the proposal. The cabinet says that it is still unclear whether and when and where the discussion of the proposal will take place. From the fact that none of the Presidencies has since discussed the proposal, the Minister carefully deduces that at present there is insufficient broad support among the Member States to discuss extending the mandate of the EPPO, at least before it is actually operational, the Cabinet said. Anyway, that's gonna change now. Apart from that, the cabinet does not say that it is convinced of the operational need to give the EPPO an additional role in the fight against terrorism, for example. The fact that the Netherlands is opposed to this enlargement is, moreover, widely known in the EU context, says the Minister. That story sounds like a clock, but as far as I'm concerned, it still sounds like a curfew, and we all know what happened with the commitments about extending it. The cabinet does not close doors, but keeps the doors open. If the cabinet does not simply say no to the extension of the EOM mandate, then at some point it will be European change, my concern and that of my group. Does the Minister, therefore, wish to make it clear once again here in this Chamber today that there will be no extension of the EOM mandate? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. The present bill regulates the adaptation of some laws implementing the EU Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, to be specified. This EPPO has been specifically established to investigate, prosecute and bring to national courts offences affecting the EU's financial interests. This concerns fraud involving EU subsidies, import duties and sales tax. Member States not participating in the EPPO shall be Sweden, Denmark, Ireland, Hungary and Poland. Mr. Chairman. In an earlier 2018 contribution on the EPPO, my group stated in this House that the European Union has only three core tasks, namely economic monetary policy, environmental and energy policy, and border policy. This position is maintained in its entirety. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the EU should only carry out those tasks that cannot be carried out at national level. Mr. Chairman. In 1999, the European Anti-Fraud Office or Office Européen de Lutte Anti-fraud Office, to be called OLAF, was established. OLAF has the power to carry out fully independent investigations into fraud in the Member States and within European institutions, and has already recovered some EUR 7 billion. OLAF shall cooperate closely with Europol and Eurojust. The new structure, the European Public Prosecutor, has the power to bring criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the Union before national courts. It therefore has more powers than OLAF. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely these far-reaching powers that cause 50PLUS concerns, because that is why the sovereignty and opportunity of our Dutch state is at stake. Cross-border fraud involving EU funds already has an obligation for Member States to cooperate in criminal matters. The Dutch Public Prosecutor may also assist other Member States in investigations or prosecutions without the European Public Prosecutor. But since the European Public Prosecutor was part of the Rutte III government agreement, it must be implemented in our legal system. The participation of the Netherlands in the EOM is already established, regardless of whether this bill is adopted or not. In replying to many of my colleagues' questions on the competence, working methods and implementation of the EPPO, my group notes one thing: the words 'confidence' and 'expectation'. Since many of these questions cannot be answered in concrete terms about the functioning and development of the European Prosecutor's Office, the Minister is satisfied with the answer he has every confidence in and expects the EPPO to be successful. Let me give you some examples. In formal terms, the Regulation also empowers the EPPO to draw on other offences which are inextricably linked to EU fraud, the so-called right of evocation, which requires the national authorities to pass on ongoing investigations to the EPPO. The Dutch authorities lose their say in this, but it is expected that the European Public Prosecutor will not take over these cases immediately, according to the Minister. This cabinet expects operational cooperation between the competent authorities in the Member States to become more efficient and to increase the fight against fraud, particularly in those Member States where enforcement can be improved. But the Member States concerned, Hungary and Poland, are not included, so what is this expectation based on? Mr. Chairman. The EPPO is expected to make practical working arrangements with the non-participating Member States. This cabinet trusts that a mode of cooperation will be found. My group asks the Minister where the interest of Poland and Hungary lies not to participate in the EOM, but to enter into a partnership. Can the Minister state this in more detail? The future cooperation between the European Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor and our national investigation bodies is also merely a matter of confidence that good working arrangements will be made for this. Mr. Chairman. Trust and expectations are beautiful. That means that you hope, believe and count on something to be a success, but there is no independent testable criterion for that. Even the VVD asks in its preliminary report of 17 November 2020: what criteria do the EOM become a success in the Netherlands? According to the Minister, this should be reflected in the annual reports. 50PLUS considers this an extremely vague and lean basis. Something as far-reaching as the establishment of a European OM, whereby the Netherlands transfers the right of prosecution and European law is applied to the exclusion of our national law, does it not require clear criteria for scrutiny? Moreover, such a transfer of prosecution cannot be reversed, because even if it turns out that the European Public Prosecutor is not as successful as expected, the Netherlands cannot unilaterally terminate its participation in the European Prosecutor's Office. This, too, is seen by my group as a restriction on our sovereignty. The fact that there is no turning back means that we are finally transferring powers in the area of criminal law to the European Union. Mr. Chairman. My group has a few specific questions for the Minister. On what basis does the Minister consider that the EPPO provides a solution to the different criminal justice systems between the different participating Member States? How can the European Public Prosecutor provide a solution in the event of unclear jurisdiction in cross-border cases of fraud? Will the maneuvering between the different criminal systems and unclear jurisdictions by the European Public Prosecutor not inevitably lead to future adjustments? Is the next step perhaps an overarching criminal law code or criminal law code, I ask the Minister. Since the EPPO is an independent organisation within the Office, the delegated European Prosecutor, the European Public Prosecutor, does not fall within the competence of the Minister. Can the Minister state what that means in concrete terms when the European Public Prosecutor decides not to prosecute, for example, VAT fraud where the Dutch interest would claim it? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. Since a small number of Member States do not or hardly act at national level and allow or tolerate fraud, a European Public Prosecutor's Office has been set up. The fact that both Sweden and Denmark do not participate in the EPPO on the basis of the principle of sovereignty. However, the fact that Poland and Hungary, which is known to have not, or hardly, acted against EU subsidy fraud in their own country, have also failed to join my group, raises the question of whether the European Public Prosecutor's instrument has become disproportionate. The expectation and confidence of this cabinet that these Member States will act as reliable and positive partners in order to achieve fruitful cooperation in order to detect and prosecute EU fraud within their own borders, is not currently shared by my group. What do the Minister consider to be the means to enforce working arrangements with non-participating Member States? Can he name these? I'd like an answer. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is also strongly in favour of tackling fraud involving subsidies, but my group has serious doubts as to whether a European Public Prosecutor can and will contribute to reducing or preventing EU fraud. It should be added that the powers of the European Public Prosecutor cannot be exercised in those countries where they are most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. I understand that Mr Otten has waived his speaking time. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. The opportunity makes the thief. With that proverb in mind, we should look at this bill for the Introduction Act for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The opportunity for theft and fraud of EU funds is largely created by the European billions redistribution mechanism and, in turn, fueled by this Rutte cabinet with our taxpayers' money. Two weeks ago, Rutte agreed to the megalomaniac EU Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion in grants and loans for so-called weak Member States. The Netherlands should contribute EUR 43 billion to this fund, of which EUR 23 billion are grants to other Member States. As far as loans are concerned, they are not repaid by such countries in 100 000 years, so they are de facto gifts. With the adoption of the Council of the European Union's own resources decision and a staggering budget of EUR 1,824 billion, the Netherlands commits itself to the European Union for EUR 100 billion. This budget costs the Netherlands €9 billion a year. The billions are then pumped from Brussels with a press line to South and Eastern Europe. A gift of 78 billion free money for Italy and 70 billion for Spain. And Poland gets 28 billion. Brussels opens its vault doors wide by making so many resources available and putting in place numerous arrangements that can be used in the EU Member States and beyond, as in Turkey. And with that I say again "the open door calls the thief," to speak to Father Cats. The risk is also confirmed by the European institutions and the cabinet itself. In the answer to parliamentary questions from our PVV group on fraud with COVID-19-EU funds last October, the Cabinet indicated that similar warnings were issued from Europol, UNODC and the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, on national and expected future international support measures. In international media, it has been pointed out that organised crime in certain Member States hopes to benefit from the agreed EU support package." It also indicates that in recent years the results of the EU anti-fraud body OLAF have shown that European economic subsidies involve risks of fraud and actual fraud. Knowing that there is such a huge risk of fraud at such huge amounts: why then, knowingly and knowingly, pump away our Dutch hard-earned tax money? Why not just take away the thief's opportunity and stop this Europhile spillover? Despite the fact that the risks and the abuses are well known, the money tap is still not turned off. The European Parliament is talking about "a risk of potential abuse." The European Parliament "also recognised this and called, inter alia, for adequate resources to be provided to the European Public Prosecutor's Office." Only the Brussels bureaucrats can think that way. Their pivotalness must continue. Well, it'll have to be guarded by an EOM. If you don't give all that money away to other countries, you don't have to check it out. And then they come up with an EOM, which unnecessarily undermines our national sovereignty. In previous debates on this subject, we have consistently denounced this as a PVV and have clearly spoken out against the formation of this EOM. Unfortunately, however, this Rutte cabinet has been tough, and now the Netherlands must give up sovereignty for the sake of other EU Member States that are corrupt and corrupt. For example, under the new EU billion budget, Bulgaria will receive a sloppy EUR 29 billion, while the country of corruption is tied together. European money for motorways, for example, and the countryside disappears into the pockets of corrupt politicians, such as the former Bulgarian Minister of Agriculture, and is used to build private houses. You may be able to set up an EOM to do that, but it is much more efficient not to send a penny anymore, to spend our money here in the Netherlands, where we need it very much. Last Thursday it was announced that out of the ten delegated prosecutors nominated by Bulgaria to the EPPO, no less than seven were rejected by the EPPO in advance, because they would not have the right experience. This can be interpreted as a Bulgarian unwillingness to make a serious effort to combat fraud. But equally, it is an inappropriate interference of an EU organisation in national sovereignty in nominations for appointments. This also applies to the possibility for the EPPO to make its own arrangements. This affects the principle of national opportunity to prosecute or not and to allow the judge to rule on a case. A Member State would miss the opportunity to put a suspect behind bars, for example, if the EPPO is in a position to act. Can the Minister explain why the Cabinet states that the offer of transactions by the EPPO, i.e. without the intervention of a court, does not undermine national jurisdiction, now that further prosecution at national level is no longer possible? And can the Minister also indicate the risk that fraudsters in many notoriously corrupt countries will now only get away with a settlement and thus make the EOM merely a bureaucratic tiger? In any case, the EOM is already in danger of getting bogged down in a mess before it gets on the road. Last month there appeared to be problems not only with the nominations of the Bulgarian delegated prosecutors, but also with the Belgian and Portuguese nominations, because politics would have overruled an independent nomination committee. Documents on this issue were requested and refused, which makes the procedure untransparent. Moreover, the Portuguese prosecutor was appointed on the basis of false information. His resume was largely made up and cheered up. How does the Minister intend to combat fraud seriously with an organisation that is already untransparent and occupied with such frauds? Does the Minister still really believe in that europhile fairy tale? Or does he finally want to face the eurocratic nightmare and get out of this mess as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. As far as the PVV is concerned, there will be a Nexit and we will leave this terrible EOM as soon as possible. But, as I mentioned in the debate on joining the EOM in 2018, the same thing happens as in Hotel California from the song of The Eagles: we are programmed to receive, you can check out any time you like, but you can never leave. There is no provision for the EPPO to be able to leave as a Member State. This closer cooperation is a dead end street with one-way traffic. That's unacceptable. Therefore, the PVV comes with a motion to at least establish an exit strategy, so that at least the Netherlands has the possibility to leave this EOM if desired. Poland, Hungary and Sweden have seen this better and have not become participants at all. Denmark and Ireland would now have special opt-outs. Can the Minister indicate what the opt-outs mean for these countries and whether this can also provide the opportunity for an exit from the EOM? Mr. Chairman. If the EOM becomes active, then one more point about effectiveness. In response to our group's written questions on criminal immunity for public authorities, the Minister indicated: "How the EOM will deal with fraud involving EU subsidies by public authorities cannot be said in general. There is no specific regulation in the EOM Regulation on this subject. Where a Member State would be prosecuted by the EPPO of a public body, an administrative body or its members as a de facto manager because of the alleged fraud with EU subsidy, it is primarily dependent on the applicable national law as to whether the criminality of that body/administrative body or actual management is possible." As far as the Netherlands is concerned, the Minister states: "As far as the persecuability of governments in the Netherlands is concerned, the case law of the Hoge Raad from the 1990s is still the law in force." In so doing, the Minister refers to the Pikmeer judgments and to the Volkel judgment on which he states: "In any event, it can be inferred that the State still has immunity from criminal proceedings. For other public bodies, the existence of immunity depends on several factors mentioned in both Pikmeer judgments." In short, the Dutch government considers itself immune to criminal proceedings, which we saw again last week when the Supreme Court waived the prosecution of ministers for the supplementing affair. Since most EU grants are managed by local or regional authorities, there is a high risk that governments themselves will also be involved in fraud. Just think of the OPZuid, Interreg and POP3 subsidies, which are distributed in the Netherlands through the provinces. In 2017, there was a discussion about whether the municipality of Wijdemen has cheated with the €874,600 grant from the European Union and the province of Noord-Holland for a castle museum. It would be restored and made attractive for tourist and recreational activities. Instead, municipalities would have used the money to demolish old houses and build five houses. Council members of the municipality identified it as fraud with EU funding. Previously, Dutch authorities were involved in frauds with the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) when too high invoices were deliberately submitted to the ERDF by the Landelijk Gebied Service and the Twente region in order to obtain maximum subsidy. Can the Minister indicate how effective the EPPO is at all if the government is considered an immune to criminal proceedings in these EU subsidies? Can the Minister indicate whether other Member States will also use such forms of government immunity, which means that the EPPO is no longer merely a bureaucratic tiger, but also threatens to become a toothless tiger? Is there anything known about similar case law on public immunity in other Member States? How do the immunity of the State and the Pikmeer and Volker judgments relate to Article 19 (1) of the EPPO Regulation? In view of this, how does the Minister deal with a request for the waiver of immunities provided for in that Article? Furthermore, the EOM is in the process of making all kinds of agreements with third countries. Can the Minister indicate to what extent the EPPO will be used in the implementation of EU development cooperation budget? In 2015, the Netherlands suspended its development aid budget to Benin for fraud. The EU has already provided EUR 900 million in development aid to Benin in recent decades. In reply to questions from the PVV-European Parliamentary Group, the European Commission indicated: "The total budget of the programme is EUR 70.3 million, of which EUR 19.8 million is contributed by the European Development Fund. This contribution is delegated to the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, which is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the programme. Since the funds are not specifically allocated within the project, it is not possible to indicate how much of the ineligible expenditure is of EU origin." Can the Minister indicate how the EPPO will deal with fraud cases that have been dealt with by delegation in such mixed programmes? Can the Minister also indicate how the EPPO will deal with any frauds involving EU development aid budget? Is that part of the approach? Mr. Chairman. The EPPO is given far-reaching investigative powers, such as searching private homes, tapping telecommunications and infiltration. A new regulation for Europol's mandate has recently been submitted by the European Commission, which includes enhanced cooperation with the EPPO. It states, among other things, that "Europol should cooperate closely with the EPPO and actively support investigations and prosecutions of the EPPO at its request, including through analytical support. ... Europol shall immediately inform the EPPO of any criminal conduct in respect of which the EPPO could exercise its competence." Can the Minister indicate whether this will not create a trap whereby Europol will increasingly be given an executive rather than an informant role for the EPPO? How can Europol's role in this active support remain strictly limited? How far can it actively support go? Mr. Chairman. The new Chief Prosecutor of the EOM, Mrs Laura Kövesi from Romania, is already being lifted on a pedestal in some media as the great European crime fighter. For example, the French newspaper L'Express already wrote that the hunt for fraudsters was opened with her. On 24 November last, an interview with her appeared in the NRC, in which she stated: "Anger among citizens about the abuse of EU subsidies is great. That's what drives euroscepticism. At best, the EOM can partially remove that anger. (...) To us to prove that we can change things, that we can defend the values of the EU. If we succeed, the EPPO will contribute to solidarity and unity in the EU." Can the Minister state that it cannot be the intention that EOM Chief Prosecutor Kövesi should no longer open the hunt for fraudsters, but is also primarily engaged in the hunt for Eurosceptics and defending the EU? Does the Minister share the view of the PVV Group that this political Eurocratic propaganda talk is totally inappropriate for a chief prosecutor? Mr President, on 16 November the following message appeared on the EM's Twitter account. I quote exactly the Twitter message: "Hungary is not a member of #EPPO. Laura Kövesi had a first meeting today with the Prosecutor General of Hungary, Péter Polt, to discuss a future working arrangement. Negotiations from our side will be led by Danielle Goudriaan (European Prosecutor for NL)'. Can the Minister explain why a Dutch prosecutor who is supposed to be dealing purely with criminal matters now suddenly has to conduct political negotiations with the non-participating state of Hungary? What has been agreed and what are these relations and this mandate? Finally, Mr President. In accordance with Article 5 (3) of the EPPO Regulation, the European Public Prosecutor shall be accountable to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission for the overall activities of the EPPO. The same shall apply to the budget estimate of the EPPO in accordance with Article 50 (3). But not directly to the national parliaments, again an unacceptable erosion of national sovereignty and parliamentary control. The PVV has voted against the accession of the EOM and will therefore vote firmly against this introduction law. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. I filed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u25	That's what you'd like to submit in this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u26	In this period, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u27	Then you'll have to read it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u28	I'll read the motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the "closer cooperation" of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (European Public Prosecutor's Office) did not include the possibility to resign as a participant;]] [[Whereas any withdrawal from the EPPO may be made possible by the adoption of a treaty amendment in the form of a specific opt-out protocol;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an exit strategy to be able to take steps to be able to exit the EPPO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35429-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-4.u29	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
