ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr President, thank you. Before I begin, I would like to congratulate your Members Mr Valstar and Mrs Podt on their maiden speech and wish them every success in their important work as a representative of the people. There are few subjects that evoke so many strong, opposing emotions as the very subject of asylum and migration. On both sides of the political spectrum there are images that are directly opposite each other. In the experience of one, we are inundated and threatened by hordes of malicious profiteers and in the experience of the other, this cabinet pursues harsh, freezing and even inhumane policies to keep everyone out of the door or get everyone out. Both images are distortions. I am concerned about the hardening of the contradiction resulting from such caricatures. The reality is that we are pursuing a humane asylum policy that gives place to those who need our protection, but at the same time is effective and decisive towards those who wrongly call for asylum and who must leave the Netherlands. Reality is not black or white. Above what I have said today, I have put a title this time: protecting asylum, protecting asylum. The first is an observation. Our asylum system protects people who are fleeing war, persecution and violence, people who really need our help. The second is a condition of being able to offer asylum, perhaps even a cry of hearts. Be careful with that system, keep it whole, so that we can indeed offer protection to people who really need that protection. So, asylum protects, protects asylum. That motto will be the common thread in my answer to the questions from your Chamber today. But before I do that, I would like to briefly pay attention to the greater trend that we are working on here every day. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, your Chamber sets day in, day out high standards of asylum policy, and rightly so. This is often about people who have to leave everything behind to save their lives. The images of the desperate crowds at Kabul airport are still clearly in our minds. The stories and images of people from war zones in Syria or Yemen touch us. If people in such situations apply to us for asylum, we want to offer them protection. It's part of a civilized country, part of a rule of law. The Netherlands has signed international conventions on this matter, and we are sticking to it. That is the main pillar of our asylum system. But our asylum system is not just there to protect. It must also be protected itself. We are not only dealing with people who need our help, we are also dealing with people who associate the civilisation from which we act, especially with weakness, with people who abuse fellow humanity and, above all, regard it as an invitation to moral blackmail. There is an important part of the explanation for the geopolitical machinations of Lukashenko in Belarus that we have recently been confronted with, for the machinations of smugglers of human beings who tempt people under false pretences to get on a plane to Minsk, and for troublemakers who travel around Europe and abuse asylum facilities in one country after another. That is the cynicism we are dealing with in the asylum area. That cynicism must be cut off with the greatest possible conviction. We still have a long way to go. Let me outline the current situation in very harsh terms. A significant proportion of the people who apply for asylum in the Netherlands do not meet the criteria for admission. Many arrive from safe countries or have travelled through the Balkan route or one of the southern EU Member States. Some of it's never been registered. Many have no identity papers on them. The latter is usually not a coincidence; these people know very well that according to the rules they do not have a chance to obtain a residence permit. In the end, therefore, many people who apply here do not have the right to our protection. Subsequently, it is often impossible to force these people to return to the country of origin. There are countries that refuse to take their own nationals back. In other cases, people refuse to be tested for covid, in order to make expulsion impossible. Mr. Chairman. As I argued here last year, I am convinced that there is support in the Netherlands to protect asylum seekers, people who are fleeing war and violence and who desperately need our help. We have a well-organized system for it in the Netherlands. However, everything I have just outlined is putting this asylum system at the expense of people who do not belong in it, and that is at the expense of those who need our help. In the housing market, we know the concept of "maneuvering." You could call this "look for asylum." This combination of factors, the pressure on our system, the unjustified requests, the delayed flow of licence holders to municipalities, the problems of return, the erraticness of geopolitical developments, resulting in the unpredictability of the numbers of people who really need our help, is a risk to the strength of our asylum system and the support for our asylum system. That's what I'm worried about. And that's where my call comes from: protect the asylum system. We can only protect those who are entitled to our protection and asylum if we protect the asylum system itself. The European Commission's proposals for a well-functioning border procedure would be extremely helpful. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the questions. I would like to do that on the basis of the following issues. And you know, I think I said that last year, I think the word "blocks" is such a terrible thing, so I'm not going to call them that again. I have said in my previous office here, in the First Chamber, in the six years: I do not want to hear the word "blocks"; these are subjects we are discussing, and we can use that word quietly from now on. So my answer to the questions is based on the following issues. May I mention that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u4	Yeah, I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u5	Robust migration chain; international dimension; return and nuisance. Shortly followed by trafficking in human beings, and in conclusion a single word about prostitution. And then I will give an appreciation of the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State starts with a really solid story, in which she describes the problems surrounding asylum flows. And that's what we agree on. Those problems. Only, she doesn't end well. She says, "I'll make a call." But the Secretary of State must not, of course, call for these problems to be dealt with. I hear in her introduction that she leaves that to the European Commission. That European Commission or the European Union is not going to solve these problems. My first question to the Secretary of State would be: if these problems are indeed not solved with that asylum influx, and if the Netherlands keeps this number of asylum influx, i.e. 5,000 per month approximately, then the costs for the Netherlands are only for asylum. So if these numbers continue, 30 billion euros a year. How is that sustainable, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u7	Unlike perhaps Mr Markuszower, I have faith in the European Union. And I also have confidence in the proposals made by the European Commission last September, namely the Pact for Migration, with new proposals. It is essential that these proposals can also be implemented. And the Netherlands is also involved in this. By working hard on this, with the perspective of the Netherlands, we ensure that these proposals can be implemented, because that is what needs to be done. Certainly the proposal on the border procedure is a proposal which we think is very important. Let me now turn to the financial aspects which Mr Markuszower has just put forward. That's what he talked about yesterday. I thought it was 20 billion yesterday, but now I hear 30 billion. But maybe I'm wrong about that. The costs of asylum are in any case borne by the Dutch State as far as it is on Dutch shoulders, and otherwise the European Union is jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Markuszower, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u9	Okay, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, Those costs were indeed 20 billion yesterday, because over the last five years they have been 20 billion. But if the asylum influx remains at the current level, the costs will quickly rise to 30 billion a year. That's it. So the question was: how is that sustainable? Then there's my other question. So far, there's no solution. We see countries like Poland and Croatia almost being overrun. As far as I'm concerned, they were right to do pushbacks. Our secretary of state called those pushbacks "unacceptable." How can our Secretary of State take away the only weapon a sovereign country has to protect itself from hordes of foreign invaders? And does the Secretary of State understand that if she calls it unacceptable for other countries, we as the Netherlands will no longer be able to do pushbacks with moral authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u10	I understand what Mr Markuszower is saying, but I would like to make a distinction. It's two different things. What we consider important is to ensure that we guard the border, that is to say, the external border of the European Union. Poland and Croatia have done so, and there are other countries that do so. Mr Markuszower talks about pushbacks. Pushbacks are inhumane. We don't think a pushback is right. The European Commission is a guardian of the acquis of Europe. It also ensures that they pay close attention to that and that they take action there. Furthermore, a country such as Croatia has itself taken measures against border guards in Croatia who have committed inhumane acts. They punished them and released them from the service. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u11	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u12	Then I'll start with the robust migration chain. One of the most important issues facing us is how we can ensure that our migration chain is sufficiently robust and able to withstand the violent fluctuation in the numbers of asylum seekers that we see moving in our direction, as well as other developments that we have only limited control over. Before I go into that, I would first like to express my appreciation for all the people in the implementation in the migration chain, the co-governments and all the parties in the field who are ready for non-stop under difficult conditions. This is not just about words. Let me give you a concrete example: Mrs Podt and Mrs Kuik have also drawn attention to this. There have been agreements made by Justice and Security with TeamUp and by the way also with the Joy about continuing the grant in the short term. As a result, TeamUp and Joy can continue to work for the psychosocial well-being of children and young people in the COA shelters. Then there is multiannual funding. Many of you, including Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Kröger, Mrs Podt and Mr Bishop, have asked me about the multiannual funding of the MPP. We have seen changes in the labour supply in the migration chain in recent months. This applies in particular to asylum. It requires a great deal of flexibility from all involved chain partners to process these developments properly. The Multi-Year Production Prognosis, the MPP, should predict the inflow for the migration chain as best as possible. Together with the current work stock and occupation, this forms the basis for the IND's requested production capacity, the number of reception sites needed for COA and Nidos, as well as for the work offer for the other chain partners. As we look further ahead, the uncertainties naturally increase. That is why we draw up the MPP every year in February and September, and process its financial impact for a period of two to three years. Thanks to your Chamber in 2019, the Ministry of Finance has agreed on a new lower financial limit for the IND budget in order to absorb the fluctuations in the inflow as well as possible. When the job offer is below the level of 2018, this is not financially processed. The IND shall remain at least at the level of 2019. It is therefore a stable financing. Until now, a lower level than 2019 has not yet occurred. Therefore, the Spring Paper of 2021 raised the level of funding. This is the intention to keep the IND at strength and enable it to cope with fluctuations. This funding will provide a stable basis, with permanent and in-house staff, complemented by temporary resources and temporary deployment of staff in the event of higher influx. These funds shall be allocated for two years and updated annually. In doing so, it is essential that the IND scales up as quickly as possible in the event of an increase in labour supply and does not scale directly at a lower inflow. The establishment of funding will make this possible in the future. In the Spring Paper 2021, your Chamber provided funds for any buffer capacity of the COA. As with the IND, this contributes to the COA being able to maintain a number of locations in quiet times, in order to be able to use them at the times when this is necessary. Since May 2021, the COA occupation has increased significantly, which means that all capacity has been deployed and buffer capacity formation has not yet been achieved. If demand for reception capacity falls again, these resources can create a certain buffer. These resources are very welcome. I would like to thank your Chamber for its constructive stance on this matter. Nevertheless, this has not been able to prevent the current shortage of reception places. This deficit is not so much a problem of finance and capacity. At the moment there are about 32,000 permanent sites and 8,000 temporary places; these are almost 40,000 shelters. But just now an underlying problem becomes visible. Nearly 12,000 of these shelters are occupied by status holders. It is not enough to allow them to flow into housing in the municipalities. In addition, as a result of the coronapandemic, it is difficult to return rejected asylum seekers to the country of origin or another Dublin country. In other words, on paper there is not so much a shortage of reception places; first and foremost there is a problem with the outflow. However, I dare to say that, despite the current problems, there is already a chain that adapts quickly to changing circumstances. A recent example of this is the speed and flexibility with which the sudden arrival of about 2,000 Afghan evacuates has occurred. All the people in the chain have worked hard on that. Then the lead times. Among others, members Valstar and Kathmann asked about the delays at the IND. Since April 2020, the IND has focused on eliminating these delays, an important issue in last year's budget debate. This assignment included decisions on 15,350 cases. On 12 July last, the House of Representatives received a letter informing it of the completion of the task force's mission. Since the start of the task force in April last year, almost all outstanding old applications have been closed. There has been a lot of work on this and careful work has been done on it. I would like to emphasise that. For I am not talking about figures here...Excuse me, I am talking about figures here, but of course it is not about figures; it is about people, who are entitled to a careful examination of their application. We must also keep a close eye on the human dimension under pressure. Mr Ceder pointed that out, and I very much agree with him. I am therefore grateful to the IND for working on this basis. At the same time, unmistakable steps have also been taken in the improvement process that the service has deployed following the reports of, among other things, Significant and EY, which have vetted the IND. In addition to the high workload, the IND is working on the implementation of the recommendations on, among other things, management and planning by and from the service. In the coming period, the IND will decide on the outstanding issues that have been settled from 1 April 2020. In 970 cases, 22 November, there was an overrun of the six-month decision-making period. This is because, so far, priority has been given to eliminating the old stock. Part of the experienced staff of the task force continues the work, now regularly employed by the IND. The remaining external task force staff will also remain associated with the IND until the end of the year. Every effort is being made to solve the problem of delays this year. In the first quarter of 2022, the IND is expected to withdraw 6,400 asylum applications in order not to decide beyond the legal deadline. This is a major task, requiring additional measures to be taken. The experience gained and the lessons learned from the task force in the field of written hearing and telehearing will certainly be taken into account, as I say to Mr Valstar and Mrs Kathmann, among others. Let's talk about outflow and emergency shelter. The higher influx of asylum and the longer stay of status holders in reception make it very difficult for the COA to provide adequate reception for all those entitled to it at the moment. This is why the COA, together with provinces and municipalities, currently realizes different forms of temporary care or emergency care. Many of you, like Mrs Simons, have expressed their concerns about this. Your concern is also my concern. This emergency shelter is particularly necessary to alleviate the situation in Ter Apel, I say to Mrs Kuik. At the end of August, a letter was sent to municipalities and provinces with an urgent call to create additional reception capacity and to accelerate the flow of licence holders to municipalities. Since then, more than 6,500 additional reception sites have been created, of which about 80% have a temporary nature. I'd like to dwell on that. The rapid increase in the number of reception places is mainly due to municipalities and provinces which have assisted in recent months. I would like to thank all the directors involved once again. At the same time, we're not there yet. This is why a letter was sent last week to provinces and municipalities to put in a final sprint towards the end of the year. More shelters are needed, specifically for single minors, and more accommodation is needed. Then I'm talking about the status holders. We're still working hard on that in the future. Meanwhile, we're also looking at the future, and I mean 2022. How many reception places are needed depends, inter alia, on the number of licence holders who are still in azc's. Therefore, it is essential that the number of status holders placed to municipalities should remain in line with the mandate and preferably increase in order to catch up. Otherwise, many thousands of additional shelters will also be needed in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'll see how far you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u14	I've come to the international dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u15	Maybe it's good to allow some interruptions right now. I was the first to see Mr Bishop of the SGP, then Mrs Kuik of the CDA and then Mrs Kröger of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer to the questions. Thank you for the written answers to the questions. I think I see some discrepancy between the written reply and the somewhat optimistic explanation given by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says: thanks to the Chamber, a financing structure was agreed in 2019, which means that a clearing mechanism is built in. We had to adjust it up in February 2021 with the Spring Note. But, according to the Secretary of State, in May 2021 the large influx only started. Surely the budget will not be sufficient if what was estimated in February is maintained and it will increase dramatically from May onwards? Month by month it has increased further. Then there's got to be some adjustments, right? Surely we cannot simply use the phrase 'if more is needed, it will be financed by existing funds through regular budgetary decision-making'? Then we must take action now, mustn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u17	I also said that the MPP is calculated twice a year. That was in February. That's when we did have a lower influx. Now it's been in September. But the MPP in September shows a very different number and the adjustment of its finances is incorporated into the Spring Note. This cannot be done in August, because the budget will have to be ready by then. So that's what happens in the spring note. That is the procedure we follow every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u18	Then there's nothing more to it than finding that you're actually six months late, but well, we'll just wait and see. The second question I still had is the next one. There's been a checkup. This led to recommendations. This has also led to budgetary recommendations. What is needed, independently of budgets, on the basis of the screening and the recommendations resulting from this in order to maintain a robust system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u19	Are you referring to the IND's screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u21	The survey of the IND is now being carried out. It is now being implemented, but we have seen that this cannot be done in six months or a year. A period of two to three years has been allocated to implement everything. I've just used the word "major," but it's quite a major operation for the planning and control of the IND. Measures must be taken. They are already being taken and implemented. A more efficient system is being used to record and proceed with asylum applications. They're working very hard on that. After two or three years of time, the recommendations made by Significant, but also to a large extent by EY, as EY has further developed the Significant recommendations, must be implemented. With that, we need a robust IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u22	Can we get the financial picture of that? I don't have a clear view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u23	I'll see what we can do. Perhaps we can send the Chamber something in writing, because I do not have the financial picture of this at the moment. We need to see how best to present that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u24	For Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u25	For Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u27	At that point in Ter Apel. It is very nice that the municipalities have joined earlier, but the Secretary of State also indicates that this is temporary. We now see that the numbers in Ter Apel are rising again. How do we ensure that there is speed and urgency to allow municipalities throughout the country to offer more places? We should not wait until the pressure is so high and we have heard it all in the media before we find municipalities willing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u28	We're not gonna wait until the pressure's that high. That pressure was acutely high at the beginning of October. That was also because we have about 11,000 to 12,000 status holders and the outflow of them is quite slow. That is understandable, by the way, because we have a housing shortage in the Netherlands. It's all understandable, but at some point it gets stuck. That happened at the beginning of October. Frankly, it turns out that every time we see that the influx to Ter Apel is greater than anyone could have thought and that the outflow of status holders or others is lagging behind. That's when it gets up. I can tell you that we already sent letters to the municipalities last November to ask if they would please get to work, because we provided that we needed places. That was done again in August, with a real emergency call to the municipalities and the provinces to ensure that there would be places. We are working very hard on this and I must say that the municipalities and the provinces have made a huge effort and are still making a huge effort. Last week I had a meeting with Mrs Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior, with the National Regietable Migration & Integration. The urgency is very clear to everyone. Really every stone is turned around to see if and where we can get places. The National Real Estate Company is working very hard, municipalities are cooperating, the COA is working very hard, Mrs Ollongren and myself are also working hard. Last Monday we also had a meeting with the King's royal lords and Commissioners to put our hands back together to ensure that we get the places we need. It's not easy, but it's being worked very hard. We come in, but the hard part is often that the spots are temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you for that answer. About the spread across the country. Does every province take its share enough? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? It is so fair if we spread this across the Netherlands and if everyone wears something to make sure that the pressure does not fall on Ter Apel again very much. Are we looking at how we can use locations more flexibly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u30	First of all, to look at the spread across the country and prevent all pressure from coming on Ter Apel. We are also working on a second and hopefully third registration center to make sure that the biggest pressure at Ter Apel can disappear. I have to say that it is not settled in one day. There's a lot of pressure on that. Of course, you have to make sure that the facilities needed for a registration centre are there as well. They're working hard on that, because we all want to make sure that Ter Apel doesn't have to stash it on his own. And the second point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u31	Is the spread across the country a bit fair? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u32	As far as the spread across the country is concerned, there are now about five provinces. We have also discussed this recently with the sovereigns who have already taken on a very large part. That is what we say: let's see if the other provinces can give an extra boost, because they are still lagging behind. In that respect, we are trying to do it fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u33	My question is in line with what Mrs Kuik just said: Ter Apel. That turns out to be the bottleneck every time, because that's where all the applications come in. I also read in the written reply of the Secretary of State that the registration centre in Ter Apel also calls on municipalities to hear whether, as soon as it fills up, asylum seekers can be brought to other locations by buses to be registered there. The municipalities are called upon to do so. What kind of municipalities are you talking about? The same applies to sober care. It ends at the end of this year. The Secretary of State writes that municipalities are also called upon to do so. A letter is sent neatly. But what is the opposite of municipalities? Why would a community respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u34	At least we're in the process of asking municipalities to place status holders. That's the important thing, because that's where the bottleneck is. That's the 12,000. If it were 5,000, we'd have 7,000 more places. Then the problem wasn't there. We're helping them a lot, including through the Home Office. They get extra money, extra incentive and assistance from the Interior and from us to cooperate and help to house the status holders. At least that's what happens. Some municipalities complain about the nuisance caused by asylum seekers' centres. We'll also get extra money for that. This year and last year I have given a million dollars to ensure that these municipalities have extra resources to appoint a boa, to do camera surveillance, and so on. That's to give them support and help them with the fact that they have an azc in their congregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u35	The Secretary of State begins her introduction with a description of our humane asylum policy, in a civilized country. In addition, she sketches a beautiful picture. Then we look at the reality, and also the reality of yesterday, in which the alarm clock is sounded from Ter Apel. I don't know what's really going on. Next year's budget is based on an occupation that is absolutely in no way realistic. The COA itself indicated at the beginning of the year that it expects 31,000 people. In the occupation, the Secretary of State assumes 19,000 people and 128 million are being cut. Is the Secretary of State not simply creating the chaos that is now taking place itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u36	We have the MPP, the Multi-Year Production Prognosis. The MPP will be adopted in February and September. The budget we are dealing with now is based on the February MPP. Then it all looked very different. In September, we found that there were a lot more people coming than we had anticipated in February. However, the budget is based on the February MPP. As far as the additional numbers are concerned, the COA currently has sufficient finances, but we are ensuring that the February MPP is amended in the Spring Note. Then there is more money based on the MPP that was made last September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u37	Now the Secretary of State is hiding behind this whole paper reality again. At the beginning of the year, the COA simply outlined that it needs 31,000 places. And then the Secretary of State is going to charge 19,000 places. What is the assumption on the basis of which so many fewer places would suddenly be needed in 2021, if the Secretary of State knows that the IND is going to complete a lot of overdue applications and if we know that Corona also makes travel much more underway? Why does the model steer us towards politically useful outcomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u38	That's what I want to fight. We don't have a model with politically useful outcomes. A convenient outcome would be that we had everything ready and ready for each other and that it was exactly right with the picture as we have it now, with the influx we have now. In February, we were in a lockdown. The influx was very limited. On this basis, a forecast has been made and we are now working with it in the budget. In September there is a new MPP and the data will be incorporated into the Spring Note. We have calculated that the COA has also done so with outflow of that huge amount of status holders. 11,000 status holders who benefit from the COA shelter are really not good for the status holders, because these status holders need to integrate into the municipality. That's what we're after in the end. People who have received a permit, who have fled war and violence, who have received protection in the Netherlands, who have been granted a permit to live here. The most important thing is that they can integrate and become part of society. That large amount, that 11,000, that's something the COA didn't think she'd be dealing with all year round at the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. The next issue, the international dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u40	The international dimension. Our asylum chain is highly dependent on international developments. Well, developments at the external borders of Europe are truly worrying. The situation in Afghanistan is bleak. Migration - I mentioned it already in my introduction - seems to be increasingly used as a geopolitical instrument. This is reflected, among other things, in the situation at the border between Belarus and Poland. Your members Azarkan, Koekkoek and Valstar asked intrusive questions about this. The cabinet has previously offered support to Poland, but it does not seem necessary at this stage. However, the European Commission's action plan has been taken with interest. We'll keep you posted. Not only further away, but also near our borders, horrible events are taking place. Mrs Koekkoek referred yesterday to the people who drowned in the Channel after the dinghy turned. I share her horror. I can tell you that the French initiative is now launching a consultation on Sunday with France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, the European Commission and the United Kingdom. We will talk about a European and common approach to this sad problem. I intend to participate on behalf of the cabinet. I'll inform your room at the end. At the same time, we have seen an increase in mobility in recent months, after covid measures have been eased in different parts of the world and travel restrictions have been lifted. As a result, secondary migration to the Netherlands also increased. It is difficult to predict how that will develop in the coming period. All this poses challenges for the European Union, which can only be solved through better cooperation between the Member States, strengthening the rules and better implementation of the agreements between them. This applies both to the treatment of asylum seekers and migrants at the external borders and in the Member States. Cooperation with Greece on single minors is a good example of this. We share our Dutch experiences, work together with the Greeks to adapt these experiences to the situation there and thus help to make improvements in the area of care and custody. The Dutch commitment in the European Union, with the migration pact as a guideline, is further focused on achieving a stronger asylum and migration management system. For this purpose, the cabinet focuses on three key issues, which are closely interrelated. One. Control at the external borders and thus strengthening the external borders. Two. Working towards a predictable, binding solidarity mechanism that must go hand in hand with responsibility for registration and reception. Three. Effective return. Part of the solutions lies in the proposals published by the European Commission last September. They are a good handle for constructive consultation and offer the prospect of a broad-based compromise. That's what this cabinet is committed to. But the negotiations on the EU asylum and migration pact are difficult, I say to Mrs Koekkoek. They're definitely gonna take some time. Some progress is being made, for example on the Blue Card, the work permit for highly skilled workers, and the compromise reached on the EU Asylum Agency. It is now hoped that the French Presidency will abandon the package approach and thus facilitate negotiations. Then about return, Mr. Chairman. Return is unchanged the final piece of migration. It is part of an approach in which people without a right of residence must return. Over the past year, global measures by countries of origin and other destination countries against the spread of COOVID-19 have been launched. On top of all other activities, employees lost a lot of time in arranging quarantine, tests and other measures, and also due to breakdown in their own ranks. Like the Netherlands, many countries of destination impose additional requirements on entry, such as a PCR test. And if a stranger doesn't want to participate in a covid test, then he or she can't be turned off. As the press has pointed out and your Chamber has also noticed, the PCR test required for return makes forced removal even more complex than it normally is. This will continue to be an important point in the coming period. Despite all these difficult circumstances, I note in an evaluation that the Netherlands has not done very badly in the field of return. Compared to countries around us, relatively many people have managed to get back to their countries of origin. This year, up to and including week 40, approximately 2,780 foreigners have left the caseload of the Return and Departure Service, of whom 1,240 have been forced to leave. Return will also have to be a policy priority for the coming period. The success of the entire asylum chain falls or stands with this. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to return, the external dimension is of course also important. Kabinetsbreed we are working on better cooperation with the most common countries of origin. Steps are being taken to link, for example, the lack of return cooperation with aspects of visa policy in the EU context. I see this further in the trade policy that is now being discussed in Brussels, such as the revision of the Generalised System of Preferences, the APS. The cabinet will decide its position on that proposal and I do not want to anticipate it. However, I would like to mention the profit that the Commission is working on this. Mr Valstar asked for the Becker motion to be implemented in order to create a crisis mechanism such as a mini-Schengen. The Cabinet notes that there are currently shortcomings, such as in relation to secondary migratory flows, inadequate functioning of asylum procedures and insufficient use of alternatives to internal border controls. Therefore, priorities for the Cabinet include strengthening the external borders and tight monitoring of internal borders. The safeguards in the event of a new crisis need to be strengthened. For example, internal border controls should be a last resort. All this has been discussed with the European Commission and will soon lead to an amendment of the Schengen Borders Code. Then there's the nuisance, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u41	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u42	I'll come back to the part of the return. It is of course terrible that because of the covid crisis and by refusing the PCR test people cannot return. I find that complicated and I hear the Secretary of State finds that complicated. At the same time, I can also imagine that there are neighbouring countries facing the same problem, because we are facing a global pandemic and the return is also difficult for other countries, Germany, France, England, etc. I would ask the Secretary of State to say that in the short term she is talking to some of these countries to see how we can resolve this. I am thinking of neighbouring countries, but this can be wider. I also consider that the crisis may continue a little longer than we would all like. I would like to ask her to see how we can act together in this, because I agree with the Secretary of State that return should be effective and rapid. Can I get a commitment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u43	I can be of immediate assistance to Mr Ceder, because we have been talking for some time with the neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium in particular to see what other ways we can achieve return in which this PCR test is not mandatory. In any case, we have already agreed with Belgium that we will do so through quarantine, either on one side or on the other. So we have an agreement with that country and we are working with Germany. Moreover, I have to note that in Germany a mandatory PCR test can be imposed on those who have to return. The country of return is not the Netherlands, because the Netherlands is not usually Dublin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u44	Let's take a step back to the international dimension. I'm sorry I'm late. I believe that return is also part of the EU migration pact, and I would like to ask a question about that. Indeed, I read back that the Netherlands supports letting go of that package approach. On the one hand, I can imagine that, but I still have a question about the possibility of letting go of the package approach. Is there still a balance between the solidarity mechanism and the strengthening of external borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u45	First of all, one thing about the package approach. The package approach has already been addressed in the previous changes and improvements to European asylum policy, which were particularly relevant in relation to Dublin and other areas. That's why nothing's happened the past few years. I don't know how many years. To make progress now, the Netherlands says with several other countries: please let go of the package approach, because there has to be improvement. The system is outdated and needs to be really changed and improved. That's the most important thing. The Netherlands believes that we should abandon this package approach and take steps. I have just said that this compulsory solidarity mechanism goes hand in hand with the responsibility of the Member States. So that's what we want to keep together. So there are things we do do together, but it would be another package approach if we were to say: we only do this when the return is in order. So the point is that each piece is looked at separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u46	That is why I say: I understand that on the one hand. I understand that there is a logic behind questioning this package approach. At the same time, of course, it will be difficult, because Member States have different interests. This certainly applies to border Member States versus non-border Member States. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how we monitor this balance in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u47	As the Netherlands, we are very keen to ensure that this balance is there. Some countries say that they only want this, but then the other part... I come back to the solidarity mechanism. We believe that solidarity mechanism: yes, but then the countries with which you are united must ensure that they also have their asylum procedures in order, because that works together, of course. On that point, we say: that must go hand in hand. You can't just have one and not the other. But it doesn't work that way that you can say: we do and return is related, so if they don't return and so on. It doesn't work that way, but the Netherlands is really constructive in negotiating this pact. Moreover, there is one issue on which all 27 Member States agree: return, return, return. In this respect, the European Commission has a very heavy responsibility to work hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u48	The return part will also make sense to everyone. Let me give you a concrete example. The risk I see is that we are building walls at external borders and that a number of Member States are in favour of financing walls in Poland, for example, in order to strengthen that external border. The Netherlands has not supported this as far as I know, but that is a great risk that I see and I do not think that it can go hand in hand with that solidarity mechanism. We have to watch for that. Because we are all Member States and we all make our own choices, I ask the Secretary of State where the minimum criteria for the Netherlands lie before we say: we are letting this go now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u49	I can't say that in general. I have just said that the solidarity mechanism goes hand in hand with the responsibility of all Member States to have their asylum procedures in order. It's connected. As far as external borders are concerned, Mrs Koekkoek probably knows even better than I do that at least the European Commission does not support the building of walls at the external borders, and neither does the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u50	The Minister moves on to the topic of nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u51	Well, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u52	Oh, I'm sorry, the Secretary of State. I had to think about it so I didn't say "block."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u53	No, no, no, they're subjects! I'm talking about the nuisance right now, Mr. Chairman. I shall go back to the standard and then clarify the deviation from that standard. The core is this. Everyone has the right to a fair asylum procedure, including those from countries that we characterize as safe, for there too there may be persecution for political ideas or sexual orientation. Then there's the anomaly. Unfortunately, people who do not have a valid reason for their application are also reporting and there is a group within and outside the shelters which causes nuisance or is guilty of crime. Tackling this nuisance is an absolute priority. You know our approach with the chain marines, the Top X approach, time-out spots and the enforcement and monitoring location in Hoogeveen. Special attention is paid to the group of young people from safe countries who are guilty of crime. By the way, that group has its own abbreviation, I understood when I was talking recently to people from the Aliens Police: cruvelas, criminal safe people. These cruvelas are a burden to the communities that take them, even out of humanity. In doing so, they and other troublemakers are at the root of the support for the entire asylum system and, paradoxically, the greatest enemy of those who depend on that system: those who are really fleeing violence and persecution. Several of your members, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Kuik, made comments on this. Taking back on my theme today: by addressing this group, we are protecting the asylum system and ultimately the real asylum seekers. It is precisely from that point of view that I have promised your Chamber a hard and comprehensive approach to nuisances. That's exactly what I'm doing now, along with organisations in the migration chain, the municipalities, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In recent years, 1 million euros have been made available to municipalities to combat this problem. The intention is to make that amount structural, I say to Mr Valstar. But I want to be clear with your room. At the same time, there are considerable obstacles that make it difficult to solve this problem truly satisfactorily. Return is the solution. I agree with Mr Markuszower. I am grateful to Mr Eerdmans for his specific proposals on this subject. I would like to add that we remain dependent on cooperation with the authorities of the countries of origin. I have outlined to you earlier how I am working bilaterally and at European level to improve my understanding of this. Now I come to human trafficking, Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings is a form of exploitation and thus one of the most serious forms of organised crime. It is extremely complex: labour exploitation, sexual exploitation, abuse of asylum seekers and illegal refugees, drug trafficking and extortion. We come across cases in which several of these aspects form one big indistinguishable folds. Ms. Michon already gave the talking example of the 10-year-old drug runners. In short: trafficking in human beings is a disgrace to our society and its approach is therefore a priority of this cabinet. The key to a successful approach lies in good signaling and intensive cooperation between many parties, such as with the ministries of VWS, SZW and BZ and many involved chain partners. Together, we have taken good steps with the programme Together against trafficking in human beings. This autumn, an information campaign is launched aimed at customers. The purpose of the information campaign is to inform customers about, among other things, how they can identify signals from trafficking in human beings, what are their duties and where they can report abuses. The increase in the number of OM suspects also continues 2021. The D.A. recently amended the Trafficking in Human Beings Directive by Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law. The new directive has increased the penalty requirements to be applied to all forms of trafficking in human beings. A concrete proposal has also been prepared for the revision of Article 273f. The adjustments aim at broadening and improving the possibilities for dealing with trafficking in human beings through criminal law. Mr Ceder has a motion on the Kingdom's relations budget with the character of 35925-IV, No. 20 submitted on the occasion of the arrest of the European Union Special Representative for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on the occasion of the arrest of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on the occasion of the arrest of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on the occasion of the arrest of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It may be a bit unusual, but I would like to say here that I am certainly open to a joint evaluation. After that, it is up to the countries what they do with the results, because combating trafficking in human beings is, of course, a matter of country. If I may understand this motion in this way, I can leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u54	I can see that Mr Ceder agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u55	Then the prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u56	Before you do that, Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is nevertheless passionate about how to deal with trafficking in human beings. It's a disgrace to society. She also sketches how much human trafficking is. Does she not agree with me that it is incomprehensible that humanitarian personnel are at risk of being prosecuted for trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u58	I think that Mrs Kröger is referring to the matter that is going on in Greece, with Mr Wittenberg. This case is under the courts, and I am not going to comment on it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u59	This is, of course, linked to the case, but this has been going on longer and wider. We actually see in a lot of places and at a lot of times that humanitarian aid providers are in danger of being criminalised. We have seen it before, for example, at Sea-Watch and other organisations active in the Mediterranean. The point is that the provision of humanitarian aid, the saving of human lives, can never be a criminal offence. So if the Secretary of State makes a plea here that trafficking in human beings is the greatest disgrace to our society, I would very much like her to say that humanitarian aid can never be trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u60	We need to keep a close eye on what we're talking about here. There's a difference between human trafficking and human trafficking. The cases referred to by Mrs Kröger, in my opinion, are cases of trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is trading people and then exploiting them criminally. That's what it's about. That's different from human trafficking. I specifically talked about trafficking in human beings, so trading people and then exploiting them criminally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u61	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues with the subject of prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u62	As I said, there is still a link between trafficking in human beings and parts of our prostitution world. In the case of prostitution, I therefore focus on three issues. Firstly, I am committed to better and more uniform regulation of the prostitution sector. Secondly, to strengthen the social position of sex workers. Thirdly, I am committed to supporting people who want to leave prostitution. For this I work together with the Sexwerk Alliance Destigmatization, with sex workers, with interest organisations and with aid workers. The Sexwerk Alliance Destigmatization, also known as SWAD, started in June this year. The SWAD is an alliance of 22 initiatives and organisations that work together to reduce the stigma of sex workers and, among other things, to improve their social position. In addition, the Ugly Mugs platform will be launched at the beginning of next year. On the platform registered sex workers can warn each other about violent customers. Under the guidance of Soa Aids Nederland, a complaint desk has also been set up where sex workers can receive support in the submission of complaints to authorities. Finally, I give extra priority to the exit programmes. I want to maintain the nationwide coverage network of exit programs for those who want to leave prostitution. Since 1 January 2021 this is a structural scheme. I am confident that we will contribute to a safe, healthy and visible industry, and a decisive approach to abuses. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply to your Chamber's questions. I must now give my appreciation of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u63	Thank you. I think Mrs Koekkoek has something to say about prostitution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u64	I actually want to take another step back. I referred to what the Secretary of State said about the difference between trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I understood my colleague's question very well. Indeed, there seems to be a trend towards the people who provide support. In my own contribution, for example, I was talking about a Dutch journalist who had to leave Greece because of threats. This fits in with a trend towards the people who want to help refugees. I didn't quite understand the answer given by the Secretary of State about the difference between trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. So I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u65	The difference between trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is a difficult but very important difference. Trafficking in human beings may also have to do with trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is generally helping people to get to a location where they cannot or cannot come in any other way. Then you're smuggling people. You can also smuggle things, but this is about smuggling people. Trafficking in human beings is, after all, a completely different activity. Trafficking in human beings is an activity in which people are traded and then exploited, for example in the sex industry, as a migrant or whatever. So it's about exploitation, and it's something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u66	I thank the Secretary of State for explaining the difference. But when do we call it human trafficking? And when do we say in the Netherlands: if this happens, is there still our support? I think the question was much more about that. When do we say that humanitarian aid is aid, even if it is perhaps defined as smuggling by another Member State, because it is convenient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u67	I say again: I have spoken about trafficking in human beings. I didn't talk about human trafficking at all. Trafficking in human beings is mentioned in Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law. If someone meets that requirement, he'll be guilty of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u68	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. And then Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u69	Indeed, before we go to the amendments. The Chamber has adopted a motion to examine whether Afghan refugees and other asylum seekers can be received in this building or in other vacant national buildings in the Netherlands. I was wondering if the Secretary of State could give me an update on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u70	Sure, I can do that. The Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf finds out from all the vacant locations that the government has, whether it is possible to offer them to the COA for the housing of asylum seekers. They're working hard on that. This building has also been viewed, but unfortunately I have to tell you that to house people here, you still need a number of showers, toilets, laundry rooms and the like. I thought it was a very sympathetic thought of Mrs Van der Plas, and also very creative. That's what I said back then. But it has turned out that this is really impossible to achieve in the short term, apart from the security problems that exist because there is a parliament with security facilities here. Separate rooms are available, but these are mainly amenities such as showers, toilets and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u71	Thank you for this update. I understand that it could be possible in other empty state buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u72	Which buildings are best suited for that, among other things.They are now looked at.They are prisons, for example, because there are separate rooms and most of the time there are toilets. That sounds very bad, but here and there they look at empty prisons and buildings like that, but also at office buildings. As I said before, no stone is held up. No... Everything will be turned around and checked again whether it can or can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u73	Yeah, "no stone held up," seems like they're about to tear down everything to help refugees but not have to take care of them. No, that was a joke, I know what you mean. That's right. Looking at prisons, too. That sounds unsympathetic, but I think we should get over it. If those people were just a roof over their head...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u74	Heating, stone walls and a roof over the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u75	Yeah, exactly. A roof over the head and then we shouldn't walk around here and say, "but it's prison and that's criminalizing." As far as I am concerned, I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u76	Thank you to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u77	If the lack of showers is the problem, I remember two locations, namely the European Parliament's buildings in Brussels and Strasbourg. There each study has a shower and they are very large buildings, where a lot of people can go in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u78	I will take this with me for my Belgian colleague and my French colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u79	Very good, but there's also a Dutch department in there, isn't there? Anyway, that wasn't my question. My question is about the children's pardon. I had asked a question about this in my term. I now see that it has been answered in the written reply in Question 107 to Mrs Kuik. I dare everyone to read that and, above all, to understand. It is incomprehensible. It is really inimitable, the reasoning that is being used there. I said in my term that it was a very small group of parents whose children had not filled out a form for their children, which they did not have to fill out. Really. On that basis, they will be denied a place to stay. That is the madness in which Ljowa and his family are among others. Maybe there are ten similar cases. My question is: shall we just make a proper arrangement for that, as the children's pardon was meant to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u80	One of the conditions of the closure scheme was that the child had to have an asylum background in the Netherlands. More specifically, it had to be children by or for whom an application for asylum was made, at least five years before reaching the age of majority. This was also a condition for the pre-schemes, namely the transitional scheme and the definitive scheme for long-term children. So it is not only for the closure scheme, but it was already there. Of course, children may be born during the ongoing asylum procedure of the parents. If this is the case, the current asylum procedure of the parents may also be valid for the child with a certain form. When assessing questions under the closure scheme, the IND was confronted with applications from children born after the parents' asylum procedure, but in which the parents completed such a form, which is clear even though the parents' asylum procedure had already been completed and rejected. In view of the special nature of the closure scheme, the method used for the temporary assessment of such applications was a positive one. After a few months, this practice has been abandoned because it does not tolerate the principle that the closure scheme is intended only for children with an asylum background. In the light of the principle of equality, similar cases were then decided in favour of the foreigner. However, there is also a case-law in which children were born after the parents' asylum procedure, but such a form has never been submitted. These cases, like other cases which are not comparable, have been examined under the usual conditions of the closure scheme. The Administrative Court of the Council of State has held that the situation in which such a form has been submitted is not the same as that in which the form in question has not been submitted and that there is therefore no legal situation of similar cases. I must say that I understand that this is a difficult, very sad message for those who are concerned. However, I do not see any reason to bring children who have never completed a form and for whom an application for asylum has not been made, at least five years before reaching the age of majority, within the scope of the closure scheme. They have no asylum background and their cases are not comparable to those in which the scheme has been interpreted in a temporary manner, as the Council of State has pointed out quite recently. That is the situation of the closure scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u81	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u82	The Secretary of State has now read the answer to question 107 neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u83	No, I haven't expanded anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u84	It's very similar. Everyone who understood is very handsome. I've read it three times and I hear this story again. The good listener therefore hears that they have temporarily generously implemented the arrangement, and at some point has said: we are not doing so anymore. And then you get equal cases that are treated unequally. It's a very small number of people. I am simply asking the Secretary of State to be reasonable and fair and to settle this. This is about a 7-year-old child. You're not gonna send that back to a country where it's never been?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u85	I want to be very clear about this. There are indeed people who, after their asylum application, who had been rejected, had a child and who, despite the fact that the asylum application had been rejected, have nevertheless submitted a form. There are also cases where people were rejected, had a child, but did not submit a form. That's the last situation. The Council of State has said that they are not similar cases. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that this is a very difficult, difficult and sad outcome, but it is the closure arrangement for which we have all made the conditions very clear and precise. The Council of State has looked into this and made very clear statements on it. Those whose application for asylum was rejected, but who nevertheless submitted a paper for the child who was born, were treated equally. That stopped at some point. In the case of parents whose asylum application had already been rejected and who have never completed a paper, the IND and the Council of State have said that they are not covered by the closure scheme. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the amendments. The amendment in part No. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Kröger are talking about increasing COA reception capacity by 100 million. I do not recommend this amendment; that is the opinion. The COA will need additional financial space in 2022 due to the increased occupation, but for that we have the regular budget process. The budgetary process shall consider the necessary multiannual budget on the basis of the latest estimates for the occupation of the COA each year. When drawing up the 2022 budget, it was expected that the asylum influx would be slightly reduced and that the outflow of authorisation holders would remain reasonably stable. Next spring, the cabinet will look again to see if the budget fits the estimates and, if necessary, adjust them. Let me now turn to the question of the coverage of the amendment. The proposal put forward is not feasible because the proposed coverage of Mr Maatoug and others, namely to reduce the tax on profits for the 5% most profitable companies, has not been adopted by your Chamber. In addition, the proposed coverage goes against the budgetary rules, which require a separation of income and expenditure. Then there is the next amendment, in part No. 28. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk in order to reverse the cuts in COA. It calls for the COA's available resources to be increased by 128 million. I must say that I also advise against this amendment. My justification for this is the same as in the amendment to item No. 24 by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Kröger on the way in which the COA is financed, namely that next spring the cabinet will look again at whether the budget is in line with the estimates and, if necessary, adjust it. Let me now turn to the question of the coverage of the amendment. Coverage is sought on the budget of the Ministry of Defense. It doesn't fall within my policy area. I have reservations about the coverage of this proposal. I also note that this proposal was not dealt with in the discussion of the defence budget. However, given the problem of defence equipment, I cannot imagine that the Minister of Defence, and the Cabinet, could agree to this. That is what the amendments are about, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u86	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and the directors for their first term. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV, who has already announced that he will have a large number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u87	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. I have many motions, also on behalf of my colleague Helder, which she cannot pronounce on her own today. The first is about drugs and is presented as a result of the discussion which my group chairman, Geert Wilders, initiated during the General Political Reviews. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that hard drugs are the poison of our society and that anyone who uses hard drugs is also responsible for maintaining the drug industry and undermining crime;]] [[considers that the public authorities have a duty to tackle hard drug users and thus not to tolerate the possession of small quantities of hard drugs for their own use;]] [[Noting that during the recent General Political Reviews the Prime Minister literally said: "Everyone who sniffs a line of coke is part of a system of serious crime that involves many, many billions. It is totally undermining our rule of law."]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the policy of tolerance for possession of hard drugs so that the possession of small quantities for its own use is also prosecuted and punished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u88	The second motion concerns the terrible imperialist headscarf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in a number of municipalities there is a pilot in which the wearing of a headscarf by extraordinary investigators in the uniform is possible;]] [[Considering that the Code of Conduct on lifestyle neutrality, which applies to police officers, stipulates that the police officer should refrain from expressing, adding and/or adorning the uniform which undermines the neutral attitude;]] [[considers that this also applies in full to special investigators, since they also represent the public authorities in their action in enforcing the rules in force;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit or otherwise prevent the wearing of a headscarf by extraordinary investigators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u89	Third motion. This reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that proximity to a police station plays a crucial role in the sense of security of citizens and this proximity is also necessary for the provision of services by the police to citizens;]] [[considers that a police station is also necessary for police officers to be able to do their work as efficiently as possible;]] [[believes that police stations should return to the neighbourhoods in order to ensure that the police are actually in the "hair vessels of society";]] [[calls on the government to ensure that police stations return to the neighborhoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u90	Fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is possible for suspects of serious and/or organised crime to continue their criminal activities from prison;]] [[noting that in Italy Article 41a of the Prisons Act applies, which allows such suspects to be locked up in an unlimited isolation, which means: 24 hours a day under supervision, no contact with the guards, no access to TV or the Internet and only one hour a month, filmed and seen behind glass, one designated family member;]] [[noting that this article of law was particularly successful there;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of such an article of law in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that reports have been published which have revealed sexual abuse and/or violence within the church, youth services and gymnastics;]] [[noting that the scale within which that could have taken place cannot be separated from the fact that institutions and whether or not direct bystanders who were aware of this or could have been aware of it in view of their position should not have intervened, which allowed the abuse and/or violence to continue;]] [[noting that this look-away and non-intervention is not punishable by the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of such an article of law in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u91	The final motion with Mrs. Helder. Oh, no. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister is about to set up a Multidisciplinary Intervention Team (MIT) together with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Defence, the College of Attorney General and the Chief Constable;]] [[noting that the MIT is not seen by all participating organisations as the desired complement to the existing approach, which is necessary for its success;]] [[calls on the Government to have the MIT, as the Minister's objective, thoroughly reconsidered by the Schneiders Commission, which will examine inter alia the position of the National Unit in the current police system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u92	We'll stop for a moment so you can have a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u93	That's super friendly. Now my own motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to open a fully-fledged police station with 24/7 staff in Ter Apel as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is full;]] [[Whereas because of the asylum invasion there are no homes for Dutch people, the costs of care are sky high and the insecurity and Islamisation in the Netherlands have increased;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately close all asylum seekers' centres, to arrest all asylum seekers residing in the Netherlands and as soon as it is possible to deport them to a country in the region where they come from;]] [[calls on the Government to detain all illegal immigrants residing in the Netherlands and subsequently to deport them to the country of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw their residence permit from all persons residing in the Netherlands with temporary asylum status and to return them to a safe country in their own region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-46]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u94	Oh, dear. Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is inundated by asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas other countries, such as Poland, are successfully stopping asylum seekers at the border;]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders and introduce a push-back system by stopping all asylum seekers at the border or pushing them back across the border,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make closed institutions of all asylum-seekers' centres so that asylum-seekers can no longer terrorise the neighbourhood until the borders for asylum-seekers are closed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fireworks are a Dutch tradition at the turn of the year;]] [[noting that the introduction of a ban on ornamental fireworks does not contribute to the reduction of hospitalisation;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the ban on fireworks for the coming year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister recently pardoned a life sentence, which resulted in the release of the life sentence six-time murderer Cevdet Yilmaz;]] [[Whereas life imprisonment should also be a life sentence;]] [[calls on the government not to pardon life sentences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower and Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u95	Then my final motion. Thank you for your patience. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that convicted terrorists are on average sentenced in the Netherlands for two and a half years and never for more than four years;]] [[Whereas convicted terrorists coming out of prison are ticking time bombs;]] [[Whereas, for reasons of national security, terrorists should be in prison for life;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce, in the near future, a minimum life sentence for terrorists;]] [[calls on the Government to denaturalise and expel convicted double-national terrorists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. That's pretty good; in time. I call Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I thought it was a nice debate these last two days, because it provides such a broad overview of this important policy area. And I thank the rulers for their comprehensive answer. Mr. Chairman. Safety's under pressure. That's not because people working that day in, day out to keep our country safe aren't doing their job well, but that's because tackling drug crime is a tough and multi-headed monster that's not easy to tame. The extra money, half a billion and another 200 million on top of it, is therefore urgently needed to strengthen capacity. First of all, I'm a cop. With my group, I would like to know what the total extra FTE is that we are going to get through this additional financial stimulus. What additional results will we see with this additional investment? Then I'm referring to the extra FTE with the police and all the other organizations involved. I have the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that organised and undermining crime affects Dutch society;]] [[Considering that, from the 2022 budget onwards, this government is investing heavily in tackling undermining, inter alia, by strengthening the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, investigation services and many cooperations;]] [[Considering that this government is developing new tools to break down criminal flows of money, take away illegally acquired assets and intercept illegal means such as drugs;]] [[Calls on the Government to make clear how much structural operational capacity (extra FTE) or programme money is actually added to the individual organisations and partnerships involved as a result of the investments from this budget, and to inform the Court before 1 March 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to significantly increase the take-off ambition of assets and illegal means and to inform the Court of Justice of this concrete objective by 1 March 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u99	Mr. Chairman. The people who stand in the wind with their heads in the wind must be helped where needed and protected where necessary. The police indicate that in addition to the drones in the port for public order tasks and the drones for forensic tasks, she needs her own counter drones to deploy in threats or threats with drones. We need to rest the police enough. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of drones offers police and customs opportunities to monitor and track down extractors in ports, among others;]] [[noting that at the same time there is an increasing risk of dangerous use of drones by activists and terrorists;]] [[whereas police forces increasingly have drones and counter drone systems at their international disposal, but the Netherlands is now dependent on external hiring for counter drone systems to tackle these opportunities and threats;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the police with drones and counter drone systems for these tasks and, where possible, to cooperate with the Defence Department in the purchase, training and maintenance of these tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u100	As I said just now, in order to protect people, we must implement the advice of the Forest Committee, especially the three points I mentioned in the first term. As far as my group is concerned, we must, in particular, put the position of the threatened more at the centre. A task force is now in the process of implementing this opinion from the Forest Committee, but I would like to endorse the points I raised with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the continuing threat against groomers, journalists and politicians strongly highlight the importance of a well-functioning system and its security;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has released 154 million for the improvement of the system, including in order to implement the opinions of the Forest Commission;]] [[Considers that it is very important that the services responsible for monitoring and securing can conduct good and systematic investigation into threats, that such information can also be shared for the purpose of controlling that threat and that they can be well informed by other services when they identify a threat relevant to security;]] [[Considers that the impact of the threat and the resulting security on threatened and its environment is significant, but that the threatened is still insufficient in the process;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an investigation as soon as possible in order to identify and propose the legal limitations in the sharing of information relevant for a threat analysis between the services concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to better anchor the position of the threatened person, with a permanent point of contact and good psychosocial support, and, where possible, to provide some insight into the threat risk and participation in the security measures to be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mr. Chairman. Neutrality of authority is a very great asset. That is why there is a uniform in this country for specific professions, and such a uniform does not reflect faith. In my term, I indicated that I wanted a ruling from the Chamber, so the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the boas stand up for, inter alia, public policy and act as such in public on behalf of the public authorities;]] [[noting that several cities call for the admission of religious expressions when wearing the boa uniform;]] [[noting that the JenV Minister is responsible for the boas system;]] [[Considers that the neutral appearance of boas does not coincide with the wearing of religious expressions, such as wearing a headscarf;]] [[calls on the government to include rules on the standardisation of boas in national regulations, with the neutral appearance of the uniform as the starting point, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the beginning of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Minister for two very important commitments: the commitment to distribute funds to the green boas, to use them for the undermining problem, and the commitment by letter to look closely at how we are dealing with young people in the collection of stuff bought with criminal money and the handling of drug runners with the seven customers we talked about. We also discussed the cooperation between the services and the MIT, the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team. For the sake of time, I will confine myself to a motion, a motion on the MIT. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team (MIT) may be of added value to investigate and expose specific phenomena and underlying structures, but that in the build-up phase the precise deployment still needs to crystallize;]] [[Whereas the MIT can provide added value in particular in the investigation of phenomena and underlying structures and operational interventions should be carried out primarily by or in cooperation with parent organisations;]] [[Whereas additional resources are available from the 2022 budget to ensure that the formation of all relevant organisations can be strengthened, but that their implementation takes time and that, when setting up the MIT, sufficient adjustment time should be provided to parent organisations in order to keep the staffing in order in the teams;]] [[Whereas the innovative approach also requires the development of the corresponding legal frameworks and would help to achieve this by establishing an incentive monitoring body that monitors both the work carried out and the development of the legal framework;]] [[Calls on the Government to appoint as soon as possible a controller of the MIT's data processing that can provide incentive monitoring;]] [[calls on the government to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative proposal that anchors the innovative approach of the MIT with the appropriate safeguards in the law and preserves the primacy for operational interventions with the parent organisations;]] [[calls on the government to take sufficient time to build up the MIT during the construction phase to allow parent organisations to keep operational capacity and associated expertise in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr President, thank you very much, and I thank the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u104	Thank you, Mrs Michon-Derkzen. I give the floor to your colleague, Mr Valstar of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you. After my two predecessors I will balance the number of motions a bit, because I have one motion. I'm gonna start with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a group of at least 1,000 asylum seekers who have been processed since the corona pandemic cannot be deported because they refuse a PCR test;]] [[noting that quarantine and/or a health certificate is not accepted by many countries to take back this group of people;]] [[noting that the cabinet is already in talks with several countries facing the same problems, including countries such as Denmark and Germany;]] [[noting that these countries have established by law that PCR tests can be carried out involuntarily in the case of asylum seekers who have been processed so that they can still be deported;]] [[invites the Government to rapidly explore whether, and if so, how proceedings can be carried out to frustrate their process by refusing a PCR test, and to include the possibilities for a legal basis for an involuntary PCR test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Valstar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u106	You can turn in the motion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u107	I'm about to. While I have time left, I would like to thank the Cabinet and the Secretary of State in particular for the written reply. Many people at home think: a lot of questions are asked and they are answered to a lesser extent. That's not true. We have been answered in writing at around 150 questions. I would like to quote one more answer. This concerns the Austrian case, the judgment of the Court of Justice of 9 September 2021. The cabinet states that it is going to examine that judgment in order to see whether a legal basis is possible in the Netherlands in order to be able to reject repeat requests more easily. In doing so, the cabinet leaves open when it comes back to this. I would like to know when the cabinet will be able to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u109	A very brief question on Mr Valstar's motion. I understand very well the point he makes in that, but the feasibility must also be there. Maybe he still wants to explain. How do you do an involuntary PCR test? Is that under duress? Vaccination, how's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u110	I wasn't talking about vaccination. I was talking about a PCR test. If countries such as Denmark and Germany can do so, and that does not seem to me to be a third world country, then I think the Netherlands can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Valstar. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u112	Thank you. I would normally thank the directors extensively for the answer, but I have so many motions that I unfortunately do not have time for that. No, thanks for the answer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that whistleblowers should be protected;]] [[calls on the Government to protect whistleblowers, not to press charges against them and to withdraw on-going reports against people who bring out abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the childcare allowance scandal has shown that the judges of the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State have failed in the legal protection of people against the government;]] [[Considering that there have always been doubts about the structure of the Council of State, since the Council of State as an adviser to the government is also the supreme administrative judge in matters between citizens and government and the appearance of bias can then be aroused;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare and propose to remove the judicial role from the Council of State and to place it with the judiciary, for example in an administrative court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Hague Children's Abduction Convention contains important principles that are in the best interests of the child, such as the return of the child as soon as possible to the habitual residence, but affiliated countries do not always comply with this Convention properly and carefully, so that the Dutch of whom the child has been abducted abroad may suffer;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to step up its efforts to support the victims of this situation and to call more actively on other treaty countries to comply with the Hague Children's Abduction Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch State no longer relied on any limitation periods, but still relied on them in domestic adoption law cases, after having been induced by a Parliamentary motion in inter-country adoption proceedings;]] [[Considers that in domestic adoption law cases, as in the entire discussion on cross-border adoption, it is a question of precisely what responsibility lies with the State and that it is not appropriate, as a State, to invoke the legal argument that a case would be time-barred;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from recourse to any limitation periods for domestic adoptions of the past also in court cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of capacity in the police and that the pressure on police education in the coming years is increasing further;]] [[noting that the screening of new agents is increasingly digital, that no more house visits are made and that psychological conversations are replaced by only questionnaires;]] [[considers that no concessions should be made to the integrity and quality requirements of new agents in order to achieve political objectives;]] [[calls on the government to come forward in the short term with a sound vision and practical impact of police education, including, but not limited to,:]] [[good guidance and support from the academies for students on a basic team so that they cannot be used as fully trained agents as long as they are not;]] [[adequate (classical) guidance and support for (beginning) students with sufficient clarity as to what is expected of these students;]] [[an appropriate salary and clear task package for teachers at the Police College;]] [[adequate accommodation and facilities such as shooting ranges, sports grounds and vehicles;]] [[improving the screening of registered students, with face-to-face contact at the forefront,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kathmann, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Azarkan, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Ellian and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kathmann, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Azarkan and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u113	Then I still have time for a final comment. I note that ministers are very satisfied with their own efforts, results and plans. I can imagine. I have a little less of that myself, I say honestly, because I find a number of things not normal in a country like the Netherlands. The fact that police cases are on the pile waiting for treatment while victims are standing in the cold doesn't strike me as normal. Nor do I think it is normal for the fire department to be cut back, that the police are no longer in the neighborhood, that crime pays and that people can no longer get their rights. Nor do I find it normal that there is so little investment in the privacy watchdog. We have submitted plans on many of these points. The proposals have all been dissuaded. I very much hope that colleagues in the Chamber will do what is really logical and in the interests of our security and in the interests of a stronger rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u115	I'm gonna do a quick game, too. I don't know if I'm as fast as Markuszower; but the motions are still in writing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Jezidi community is a victim of extreme atrocities including genocide, slavery and sexual violence by IS;]] [[Whereas a number of Jezidian women and their children have been expelled from the community as a result of rape;]] [[having noted that a number of countries (France, Germany, Canada) have set up humanitarian admission programmes for Jezidis and their children;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a temporary humanitarian admission programme to allow a specified number of Jezidic women and their children in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is serious insecurity on buses at Ter Apel and that some bus drivers are even at home because of violence and intimidation;]] [[considers that there should be continuous supervision of buses;]] [[calls on the Government to remind stakeholders (OV Bureau and Qbuzz) of their responsibility towards its employees and passengers and to ensure that safety on buses is improved and ensured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-64]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u116	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a limited number of families were rejected under the 2019 Children's Pardon (the Closure Scheme) because the child was born after the parental asylum procedure had been completed;]] [[noting that other families of which the child was also born after the completion of the parents' asylum procedure were granted a residence permit for the sole reason that, in those cases, a so-called M35-K form was submitted after the child was born;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has acknowledged that the M35-K form is meaningful and, by definition, without legal value, when it is submitted at the time when parents are no longer in an asylum procedure;]] [[Whereas a sensual form without legal value should not be a reason to distinguish between children whose cases are completely identical in legal terms (c.q. equal monks' hoods);]] [[calls on the Government to stop using a sensual form with no legal value as a condition for granting a residence permit to children born after the asylum procedure and, instead, to treat equally the children born after the asylum procedure by granting them a residence permit under that scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u117	Five seconds left. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u118	Oh, that's nice, those five seconds. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u119	Mr. Chairman. I have a short intro. I have already discussed, in the first place, how the problems for the police can improve in the short term in terms of workload. Mrs Bikker also mentioned this. That is why we are tabling this motion together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the basic police teams have been under high pressure for years due to the shortage of capacity, which means that agents do not receive enough work in the neighbourhood;]] [[Considering that it will take time to recruit and train new agents, which means that, despite additional resources, the police expect to face the largest understaffing of the period 2021-2025 in 2022;]] [[Whereas the influx of the 700 fte new agents will not be possible until later, there will also be occasional space within the available resources;]] [[Whereas the workload within the basic teams can be reduced by, for example, the deployment of volunteers or additional intake and service staff and that these staff could be deployed in a shorter period of time;]] [[calls on the Government, as in previous years, to use some of the occasionally released funds from the Hermans motion in order to mitigate the underemployment in the GGP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Werf and Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u120	Then I'll get on with it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas organised crime is a threat to our society;]] [[noting that this threat can only be effectively addressed through policies in which prevention is a key element;]] [[Whereas in the current policy eight municipalities have started to step up the preventive approach by means of occasional means from the broad offensive against undermining crime;]] [[Considers that existing interventions with proven effectiveness, such as You alone determine who you are, Broken Strong, Integral Person-oriented Conduction to Labour and the reintegration officer should be rolled out where possible more widely;]] [[calls on the Government to make available to smaller municipalities existing effective interventions aimed at children and young people, as well as knowledge of best practices in this area, with some of the incidental means against undermining in the Justice and Security budget for 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Werf, Mr Verkuijlen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u121	Fifty-four seconds left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands (DTN) 55, in addition to the continuing threat of jihadism, a terrorist attack can also be imagined from right-wing extremist perspective;]] [[noting that this threat is mainly based on the involvement of young Dutch people in international, online accelerationist networks, whose forms of expression differ greatly from jihadism;]] [[Whereas municipalities play a crucial role in tackling radicalisation, extremism and terrorism, but local policies have long focused on combating jihadism, and awareness of accelerationism and how to deal with it still needs to be strengthened;]] [[calls on the government to ensure awareness among municipalities of the threat from both jihadist and right-wing extremist angles, and to proactively draw the attention of municipalities to the threat of accelerationism, the resources available for it within the reinforcement funds and the possibilities to effectively implement those resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Werf, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. I can just imagine that some people worked very late last night. Of course, we are very grateful to them for that. I'm not filing any motions. I do have a few more questions. First of all, I have a comment. We are extremely pleased with the commitment we saw in responding to our desire to finance the extended reception of single minors. They now receive guidance just like Dutch youth. I think they're gonna need it. They deserve that, too. Moreover, I believe that this will make a lot of municipalities in the Netherlands more willing to provide shelter for this group. I think that's a win-win. We also saw a commitment to remove bumps for asylum seekers staying outside the asylum shelter and thus using an administrative placement or accommodation scheme. Now I know that there was rather the possibility of a self-care arrangement for people who arrange in their own network care. That actually sounded much easier to me than all the arrangements we have now. It might be nice to see if that can come back. In any case, we are getting signals that there are quite a few asylum seekers who have to report to asylum seekers' centres which are very far away from where they are staying. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to do so. As I said in the first term, it would be great if we could clear some beds. We have also talked here a number of times about the relief of Ter Apel. We all know the footage. I think that with the rising corona figures, too, it will be particularly important to ensure that people can keep their distance from each other. In the answer I was not entirely clear whether the alderman would send for such a registration center on "two extra" or "a second." The two answers said that there was just different. It seems to me that perhaps more than one is needed, given the circumstances we are now in, but I would like to hear that from the Secretary of State. Anyway, I wanted to say that I understand that everyone is trying very hard, but that I feel a certain lack of urgency. We're seeing the pressure coming back on. We see what kind of bottleneck Ter Apel really is. So I would like the Secretary of State to assure me that at least one additional login location could open before the end of the year. Then the last point. It's about the housing of status holders. The Secretary of State indicated that there are different arrangements. For example, there was once the temporary scheme encouraging housing license holders. 100 million was earmarked for this purpose, of which only 8 million was ultimately spent. That was because there were so many conditions in that scheme that were unattractive to municipalities. Can you ensure that such arrangements are made in consultation with municipalities, so that they are actually used?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u123	Thank you, Mrs Podt. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll have a very short time to file motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the Moriadeal only 2 children were brought to the Netherlands instead of 50 single children;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State stated that there would be no children coming from "probable countries" in order to avoid having to return to their country of origin after arrival in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that, according to the latest figures, over 2,000 single children still reside in Greece, of which 29% are Afghan;]] [[Whereas a national departure Moratorium for Afghanistan has been in force since the takeover by the Taliban;]] [[calls on the government to honour its promise and to offer a total of 50 single children from Greece a safe home in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the past year there was a wave of supporter violence raging through our country, which required more and more police deployment;]] [[considers that the code is black in the hands of the police, which has put pressure on the performance of the basic tasks of the police;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear how many district agents, MEs and intelligence-gathering agents have been deployed in football riots and football matches and what financial resources were needed for this, and to what extent this has made the budget of the police and military police more difficult than estimated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that supporter violence in paid football matches has increased in recent weeks;]] [[whereas football associations abroad impose penalties on football clubs within a few days after unacceptable behaviour by those who call themselves supporters, while sanctions sometimes take weeks in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the KNVB already applies lick-on-piece policy against amateur footballers and supporters;]] [[calls on the Government to persuade the KNVB to adopt a lick-on-piece policy for the sanctioning of football clubs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 81% of Amsterdam's and 84% of Rotterdam's young women were victims of street harassment last year;]] [[Considering that in 2019 the Minister has already promised to criminalise street harassment, but has still not sent a bill to the Chamber;]] [[Whereas attempts have been made in several municipalities to criminalise street harassment;]] [[calls on the government to send street harassment to the Chamber within the shortest possible period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann, Mr Piri, Mr Kröger, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Simons and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-70]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u125	I know that the commitment has been made, but I would like a statement from the Chamber, because the commitment has already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u126	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kuik, from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u127	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is investing more in a broad offensive against organised crime, including the prevention of young people for whom €82 million has been earmarked;]] [[Considering that the development of this policy does not yet involve tackling criminal exploitation among minors, while an investigation shows that the majority of schools in the Netherlands are increasingly concerned about drug-related criminal exploitation in and around schools;]] [[calls on the Government to make the approach to criminal exploitation an integral part of a broad offensive against organised crime;]] [[calls on the government to pay particular attention to the prevention of criminal exploitation in the further development of resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that organised drug crime seeks to exert all possible influence, including through non-criminal harassment of government staff and officials through legal means and procedures;]] [[Whereas some (drug) criminals have so much money that they can use expensive legal knowledge and have a long life through the deep pockets;]] [[Considering that municipalities, particularly small municipalities, are not always up to this legal violence, allowing for non-criminal harassment, with a waterbed effect as a result of drug criminals continuing their activities in smaller municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of setting up a national legal point of contact for municipalities specialising in the legal dimension of the undermining approach and to inform the Court of Justice thereof this spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-74]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u128	The third. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that organised drug crime often uses threats and intimidation to achieve their goals, not to shy away from actual use of force;]] [[noting that entrepreneurs, journalists, forest rangers, notaries, brokers and others have been affected by this undermining harassment and that there is a need for security;]] [[Whereas it is now possible to provide smart security solutions to endangered persons;]] [[noting that experience is gained with agricultural entrepreneurs by helping them with camera surveillance in the event of a concrete threat;]] [[calls on the Government to give impetus to these security solutions through a pilot from the Safe Enterprise Platform, and to inform the Chamber of this pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u129	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of me too, I would like to thank the directors for their reply and for their support, which has also worked hard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that digitalisation and increasing developments in online activities raise new issues, including in the security domain;]] [[Whereas, in Apeldoorn, Saxion Hogeschool, Utwente and the Police College have initiated a Centre for Security and Digitalization and have since joined more parties for the development and transfer of knowledge on digital security, fraud, detection and awareness;]] [[Considering that issues related to cyber security, digitalisation and data-driven research in the security domain also arise at national level and from the Ministry of JenV;]] [[invites the Government to explore whether it can join the Centre for Security and Digitalisation's initiative to contribute to building knowledge and expertise on national issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u130	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the police to be able to quickly switch and act in the first minutes and hours of a missing person's missing person's emergency situation with acute danger;]] [[Whereas, at present, time may be lost when missing messages are "out of office hours" in order to obtain permission to locate an urgent missing person via his or her mobile phone;]] [[Whereas it is important that the provision of emergency aid should be properly regulated by law and that there is still uncertainty about it at present;]] [[calls on the government to organise the powers in a situation of urgent disappearance with acute danger of life that there will be no or no. as little time as possible is wasted in obtaining permission to track down a victim and to provide emergency assistance;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u131	Mr. Chairman. We talked a lot about the police here tonight, too. I always have to take a look upstairs. Thank you for always being here and looking forward to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u132	Very nice. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u133	Thank you. Thank you to the directors for their reply and also to all the officials who have worked hard. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost half of women in the Netherlands are affected by physical or sexual violence;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a National Coordinator on Violence against Women to address gender-related violence against women,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in some cases, convicted young people do not apply because they assume that they do not;]] [[Whereas particularly the sectors in which young people are interested in working, such as youth work, are subject to stricter vog requirements than most sectors;]] [[considers that a vog should only be awarded to a convicted young person in a responsible manner;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of countering the unjustified assumption that young people convicted of crimes cannot be convicted;]] [[calls on the government to learn from the experiences of, among other things, job coaches when unsuccessfully applying for a vog for convicted young people, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-79]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u135	Then I give the floor to your colleague, Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I've got three motions, and that's why I'm going to start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are procedures for which no subsidised legal aid is granted, such as the questioning of unattended minor suspects and procedures in which data subjects are deemed to be self-reliant;]] [[calls for subsidised legal aid in all cases, irrespective of the substantive or procedural aspects, to be open to the underprivileged and underprivileged;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with the lawyer, the procedures not provided for in the grant of subsidised legal aid but necessary from the point of view of legal protection, and to inform the Court of Justice of the way in which subsidised legal aid can still be granted in such cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas particular attention in the asylum procedure to a number of groups from so-called "safe countries', such as journalists, human rights defenders and lht'ers, means only on paper that the IND in question is "extra alert' to the danger to the individual in the country of origin and that this does not provide a better legal position in practice;]] [[Whereas in the "safe countries" these groups are often victims of human rights violations;]] [[calls on the government to deal with vulnerable groups from "safe countries" now receiving "special attention" on paper in line 4, the general asylum procedure, so that they really get the special attention that their asylum application deserves and prevent people from being wrongly rejected and returned;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Simons, Mr Kathmann and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-81]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u137	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas criminal proceedings are currently pending in Greece against persons suspected of having provided assistance to asylum seekers in need on humanitarian grounds;]] [[Whereas the rescue of people at sea is an obligation under international maritime law and cannot therefore be punishable at the same time;]] [[calls on the Government to work at national, European and international level to recognise the relevant guidance of the European Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for an exception clause for humanitarian assistance as regards the crime of human trafficking in Dutch criminal law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u138	With regard to this last motion. The Secretary of State and I ended up in some kind of word game about human trafficking versus human trafficking. The fact is that there are humanitarian human rights activists and humanitarian staff on trial in Greece. They are suspected of smuggling people, and my question to the Secretary of State is: saving people can never be punishable, can they? That was the question I asked, and I hope to get an answer to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u139	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I would like to thank all three leaders for their response and for standing for the rule of law. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for standing up for our democracy and for upholding it in our home. Thank you. Democracy is fragile and sometimes more vulnerable than we think. That is precisely why it is essential that we have the debate here, that we address each other here if there are any doubts and that, if necessary, we also address each other when we cross a border. In that sense, I do not think yesterday is a good day to think back, but I think it is important as a Chamber that we address each other. Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. Then the contents of these two days. I have two motions. I will read it to you at a somewhat rapid pace. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that police volunteers make an important contribution to police work and increase the involvement of citizens in street police work;]] [[Whereas, for the period 2018-2021, 0.5 million was available annually for training of police volunteers;]] [[Whereas the influx of new police volunteers is lagging behind and the number of 2,700 volunteers is far from reaching the 10% standard;]] [[Whereas, due to understandable lack of capacity, the Police College can provide very limited training for new police volunteers, which constitutes a barrier to the influx of new police volunteers;]] [[Calls on the Government to release 0.6 million for initial education of executive police volunteers by 2022 and to explore the possibility of externally provided training courses in cooperation with the Police College, regular educational institutions, the National Organisation of Police Volunteers and the Trade Unions;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the need for funding and training capacity to grow to the 10% standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Palland and Mr Van der Werf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u141	Then there's the second motion. You won't be surprised, because my point is: don't gamble with our children's future. And please, Minister, whether it's online, during games, or on footballers' shirts, those kids see it. Do something about that! That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that with the entry into force of the Remote Gambling Act, many and often advertise on TV and online;]] [[Whereas gambling advertisements on television and radio window times are used to prevent children from being reached by such advertising;]] [[Considering that these window times do not apply to online gambling advertisements, despite a majority of the Chamber that requested this in 2016;]] [[Calls on the Government to report on how children and young people are currently reached through gambling advertising, in particular online and on television;]] [[Calls for this to be related to the explicit intentions of the Remote Gamblings Act for Children's Protection and the Chamber ruling for the handling of window times for online gaming advertisements, and to report to the Chamber for the Committee debate Gamblings on findings and policy intentions that the Cabinet attaches to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u142	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a commitment to the structural development of the National Coordinator on Anti-Semitism and the continuation of projects. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to a conclusion, at least for my part, of the fifth budget of the Rutte III cabinet. Looks like it's the last budget of the Rutte III cabinet, although you never know. In this sense, I would like to thank the directors very much for their efforts and my colleague, Mr Ceder, will continue to represent the ChristianUnion's narrow-mindedness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u143	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The narrow part has arrived. I have a number of motions. Thank you for the answer and for that answer a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in an investigation into security in azc's, the WODC concluded that the sense of security in the asylum shelter and the extent to which lhbti, converts and religious leavers feel themselves and heard in the guidance depend too much on the location where they are placed;]] [[noting that the WODC recommends clear national frameworks and minimum standards for local implementation;]] [[calls on the government to establish clear national frameworks and minimum standards for local implementation in azc's in order to improve guidance and social security for these vulnerable groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Administrative Court Section in its reflection report on the premium case, concluded that there should be more legal protection where the law is too strict and that the Council of State indicated that it had been in "a self-created legal profession";]] [[Whereas, in addition to the surcharges, the Administrative Court section also mentions foreign affairs as an area in which there may be pressing issues;]] [[points out that it is desirable for the Administrative Court Section to draw up a reflection report on the handling of foreign affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-86]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u145	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas war criminals should not abuse asylum status;]] [[Whereas the charge of war crimes should be based on clear and verifiable facts and indications;]] [[Whereas suspects of war crimes are also entitled to a fair trial;]] [[calls on the Government to prosecute suspects of war crimes itself if persecution in the country of origin is not possible because, according to current human rights reports, the violation of fundamental rights is plausible and there is no guarantee of fair justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u146	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the aftermath of the premium case, substantive criticism was expressed of the implementation, including the absence of hardness clauses;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations by experts from different disciplines into the substantive decision-making of asylum applications by the IND, and to draw lessons from this in order to improve the working methods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u147	These four motions have been tabled. I would like to emphasise that we in the Chamber talk in several ways about improving the implementation organisations. I would like to point out to the Chamber, but also to the Secretary of State, that the IND is really one of them. There too, we need to look at where the law may have been oppressive and poignant and also deserve to be improved as a co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Valstar, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u149	Yes, on the first motion on the lhbti'ers and all kinds of frames and separate azc's. I have a brief question: does Mr Ceder think that this motion will help with the current problems in the azc's or that it will be counterproductive and will only increase the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u150	What we see is that it's already pinching in the acz's. That is why we are in favour of more distribution, more azc's and more funding, but you know that. The people in the azc's are already a vulnerable group, but also inside you have vulnerable groups. Those are the Ihbti's and converts. We, as Christian Union, do not think so alone; the WODC also believes that it is really necessary to set up national frameworks to ensure social security. So I don't think it bites. What I do think is that the current situation isn't fun for anyone. So we're gonna have to get some more air in there, too. I think this is important, precisely because this is a vulnerable group in a vulnerable environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u151	Finally, Mr Valstar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u152	Quite frankly, I think that if we introduce this tomorrow, if we actually impose this, the problem will only get bigger and there will be no reception places, but, more importantly, it will actually cost shelters and it will only go further. My question to Mr Ceder is then as per when he would like it to be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u153	I honestly do not understand the VVD in this question, because what I am asking is to guarantee social security for these vulnerable groups, which means that they are not being harassed or attacked and that we are setting frameworks for it. I honestly don't understand. Maybe we can talk about that later. Why that would bite the regular practice of running an azc. If you can give me some arguments for this later, I would like to take a genuine look at that. In my view, that really does not bite, and I think that we are obliged to provide these vulnerable groups with additional security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank you for answering all the questions and for the substantive debate over the last few days. We talked about many issues here, but they all have one thing in common: they are part of our rule of law. That shows how many pieces of puzzles we have to lay in order to maintain our rule of law. The rule of law remains fragile, including in the Netherlands. Over the last two days, we have talked a lot about how the rule of law guarantees our freedom. I have one more question about that. In our input we asked about the position of the Secretary of State on emergency visas for at least 50 journalists and how she opposed to providing them directly. The written answer to the questions indicated that this competence lies with the Department of Foreign Affairs. That is why I am asking here when the consultation between the Secretary of State and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take place on the provision of these emergency visas and how follow-up and feedback will be given to the Chamber. I am specifically asking this in view of the situation in Belarus and Afghanistan. Emergency visas should be our priority. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about guaranteeing the rule of law. I see opportunities for improvements in this area. At the same time, I am concerned about the second aspect of the rule of law, namely the rule of law which corrects itself. In that line, I have a number of motions. Volt welcomes the fact that the Minister for Legal Protection is proposing more stringent legislation to combat organised crime. But it is precisely when tougher measures are taken that we need to be extra strict when looking at whether the safeguards are maintained. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that undermining crime manifests itself in our society in, among other things, large-scale money laundering and drug production and trafficking;]] [[Whereas it may be useful to draw lessons from the Italian Mafia legislation aimed, inter alia, at increased anti-money laundering powers and the possibility of confiscation;]] [[Whereas the Italian Mafia legislation contains firm measures that may infringe the Dutch Constitution and fundamental rights from human rights treaties to which the Netherlands is bound;]] [[calls on the Government to make a strong assessment of how this relates to the Dutch Constitution and fundamental rights from human rights treaties to which the Netherlands is bound, when examining ways of improving the approach to undermining crime by Italian example,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u156	Mr. Chairman. I see the same concern about the rule of law that corrects itself in legislative proposals relating to the collection of privacy sensitive information. I asked earlier about the balance between security and privacy. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NCTV is increasingly collecting and sharing privacy-sensitive data on citizens in the context of protection of national security;]] [[Whereas there are several legislative proposals in which the government wishes to extend the powers of NCTV in this area, which creates tension over current privacy legislation and fundamental rights;]] [[whereas the independent supervision of NCTV is currently not sufficiently secure;]] [[Whereas the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority have expressed a critical opinion on the processing of the data of the NCTV;]] [[Whereas opinions from key advisory bodies, such as the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority, are not always taken on board;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the opinion of these advisory bodies on the amended legislative proposals is unclear;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether legislative proposals can be re-submitted to these advisory bodies after adaptation to the opinions of key advisory bodies, in order to assess the implementation of the opinions, in order to inform the Chamber as best as possible before voting on a legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is not limited to our borders, but also extends to the European Union and our external borders. Asylum protects and protects asylum; that is part of our rule of law. Pushbacks and raising walls aren't one of them. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the creation of barriers and walls at the European external borders is contrary to international law and infringes the principle of non-refoulement and the Geneva Convention;]] [[noting that 12 European Member States have called for the financing of barriers at the external borders with European funds;]] [[whereas the Netherlands supports the French proposal to release the package approach to the negotiations of the European Asylum and Migration Pact and it is therefore important to set minimum standards;]] [[Whereas European funds should not be used for projects that violate international law;]] [[calls on the Government at European level not to agree to the use of European funds for the financing of walls or barriers at the border, which infringe international law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kröger, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u158	Mr. Chairman. A rule of law also protects the most vulnerable, such as children, asylum seekers and lbti'ers. I am also concerned about this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has not been a definitive plan of approach to ensure a minimum safety standard for lhbti asylum seekers in all azcs since the Green Houses motion adopted in December 2020;]] [[Considering that in 2016 a majority of the Chamber called on the government to provide lhbti asylum seekers and other vulnerable groups with separate, safe reception facilities where it appears that their safety cannot be guaranteed;]] [[Considering that lhbti asylum seekers are an extra vulnerable group within azc's and that research shows that the safety of this group can often not be guaranteed;]] [[Considers that separate units for lhbti asylum seekers, as a demonstrable additional vulnerable group, should be part of the minimum safety standards;]] [[Calls on the Government to include the establishment of lhbti units in the plan of approach to ensure a minimum safety standard for lhbti asylum seekers in all azc's;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the recommendations contained in the WODC report to promote the social security of lhbti asylum seekers and to inform the Court before Q2,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kröger, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. I shall confine myself to tabling three motions, including on behalf of Mr Van der Staaij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aggression and violence against aid workers is a structural social problem;]] [[Whereas emergency workers should be able to carry out their work safely in the interests of everyone's safety;]] [[Considering that the Task Force "Our helpers safely" is committed to strengthening standards in our society, that our aid workers deserve appreciation and that violence against them is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the continuation of the Task Force "Our aid workers safely" and to provide sufficient financial resources to address this problem sustainably,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Palland, Mr Bikker, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Helder, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Ephraim, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kathmann, Mr Azarkan, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u162	Yes, I thought: we must, of course, ensure that we have sufficient support. Thank you to all colleagues! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more people are victims of phishing or other forms of Internet fraud;]] [[Considering that reimbursement to these victims is important, so that they do not go further in financial need;]] [[Whereas offenders are trying to circumvent reimbursement by serving replacement detention or staying under the radar;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber by March 2022 of the possibilities for enforcing damages, including during detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ellian.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u163	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is spending extra money to combat the undermining crime;]] [[Whereas undermining crime is increasingly moving to the outside world;]] [[Whereas the standard of 1 in 5,000 in practice means that villages in outlying areas have to share one district agent, which causes this repression and that the police continue to follow the facts;]] [[calls on the government to discuss solutions with the National Security and Police Consultation on how to increase the number of district agents in the outlying area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u164	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, am glad that I qualified for the Dutch motion-reading championship. Thank you to the rulers for the answer and to you for the chair. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, following several publications of the NRC and the ensuing social unrest, the Minister has ceased the unlawful activities of the NCTV;]] [[noting that NCTV financed the collusive infiltration investigations by a commercial consultancy firm and advised municipalities to use that agency to spy on Dutch Muslims and mosques;]] [[noting that the NCTV's methodology was unlawful and that regional mosques lodged a formal complaint with the CTIVD;]] [[Considering that, according to the Minister of JenV, these communities are essential in the prevention of radicalisation;]] [[calls on the Minister of JenV to apologize to all affected mosques and the Dutch Muslim community for the unlawful act of the NCTV and to come up with a plan of action to restore confidence and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the first stage of the complaint handling within the police organisation more than 90% is handled without the use of the complaints committee;]] [[noting that the purpose of complaint treatment is to restore public confidence in the police, to strengthen the learning capacity of the police and to improve the image of the police;]] [[whereas many citizens have little confidence in the complaint procedure and consider that the current complaint procedure has a high "the butcher's approval level of its own meat";]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the complaint procedure can be made more independent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the injured parents in the supplementing case were not eligible for funded legal assistance and did not have legal aid because they were not eligible for an objection procedure in supplement cases;]] [[noting that the President of the Council stated in the case-law that there was no rule of law in the basis for the victims of the supplement;]] [[noting that the Council held in its case-law that the absence of legal aid was regarded by judges as a deficit in good litigation;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt the Council's recommendation for the case-law and to make and maintain accessible and affordable the legal aid financed during the appeal and appeal phase on supplement cases and other issues relating to security of existence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce binding rules on reasonable suspicions so that powers for controls, surveillance and investigation can only be carried out on the basis of objective criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-97]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-98]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-99]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u167	And finally, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that employers are increasingly asking young people who apply for a job or internship;]] [[noting that many young people do not have sufficient information on how to apply for and obtain a vog;]] [[noting that thousands of VMBO and MBO students do not apply for vog because they think they are not eligible for a vog;]] [[noting that many young people with a judicial past are not by definition rejected and that in only 0.27% of cases an application is rejected;]] [[Whereas young people who do not apply for work are short-lived and restrict their career opportunities;]] [[calls on the Minister to launch an information campaign on how to apply for and obtain a bird for young people, to improve the image of the bird and to increase the preparation of the bird,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u168	Finally, Mr President. We drew a line here yesterday because you were not allowed to speak through the Forum for Democracy. I think that's very sensible. I would like us to do the same when we talk demonisingly about refugees, when people in this house talk about setting up a ministry for de-Islamicisation, when it comes to 'dirty sandboxing countries'. I also think that we are failing in the debate and I would like you to be able to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u169	Thank you. I have indicated that I will have a discussion with all the group chairmen, including you, so that we can discuss it. There is another question from Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u170	Everyone is, of course, concerned with their own motions, but we also often note that we are tabling a lot of motions. Mr Azarkan tabled a motion very similar to my motion on the vog. I have also made a point of this in the debate. It's up to him, but I'd say it's also possible that he wants to go under my motion. Then we'll have another motion less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u171	That's a good idea. I'm gonna take a look at it. I have to say, I didn't get all the motions as well. I'd be happy to check it out with you, or else I'll move it in, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u172	Good. Well, well, well. Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. The motions, Mr. Azarkan. Or have you moved them in yet? I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u173	I see I suddenly have six minutes. I'll be brief. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas if elderly people and people with vulnerable health feel safe at home, in their own homes, they can remain independent for a longer period of time;]] [[noting that it is therefore important that they secure their homes well, but that not everyone has the financial means to do so;]] [[noting that in some municipalities residents of a buying house may be eligible for a subsidy to secure their home according to the Politicaleurmark Safe Living;]] [[noting that this is not the case in every municipality and does not apply to the security of rental housing;]] [[calls on the government to enter into talks with municipalities in order to explore the possibilities for older people and people with vulnerable health to receive a (income-dependent) subsidy to secure their homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u174	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police force has become heavily greedy and that the outflow of the "baby tree generation" has begun;]] [[noting that this should not have been a surprise in view of demographic developments in our country;]] [[Considering that the reinforcement proposed by the cabinet to strengthen the police force by around 1,100 to 1,500 FTEs is no more than the reversal of some of the previous cuts in the police;]] [[noting that there is therefore a major capacity problem in our police force and this is only increasing as a result of demographic developments;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the commitment to report half-yearly on in-, through and out flows, to come forward with a plan of action to resolve the capacity problems in the police, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Kathmann, Mr Azarkan and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u175	Yes, thank you. I'm going over my time, but the advantage of a party with one seat is that my colleagues don't get mad at me. I'm only gonna get mad at myself tomorrow, probably, or during the LNV debate, if I don't have enough time. However, I think this debate is important enough to devote some time. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their answers. Thanks also to their officials and to the messengers in this Chamber, who have also worked very hard for us this evening. Before I put forward any motions, I would like to comment briefly on the ban on fireworks. Unfortunately, that has not been possible in the interruptions anymore, so I am taking my time to do so. I did get some vague answers to a few specific questions. The minister says that the police were consulted on the ban on fireworks, but how come on Wednesday there wasn't any dirt in the air and fireworks seemed to be able to continue, while one day later, after a fire letter from some mayors, everything was suddenly gone? The minister says he's spoken to the police. I'd like to know with whom exactly. Has there been any talk with the police unions, for example? I read in the Volkskrant that the ACP president had quite a few criticisms of the ban. Mr. Chairman. A few facts about last year's fireworks ban you don't hear about. Only the hallelujah stories we read in the media and the Minister's answers. Why are the following facts never shared? Fact. Last year, with the ban, the proportion of treatment on emergency services from injury caused by fireworks increased from 41% to 46%. And fireworks are already forbidden. All you have to do is maintain it. Fact. The number of injuries caused by so-called F1 fireworks, i.e. the pea peas, the children's arrows and the stars, has risen last year. This was because more people turned off this fireworks because the other was no longer allowed to be turned off. Fact. Heavyly illegal fireworks are the cause of most injuries, according to the government last year after the firework ban of 2020/2021. But that type of fireworks is already forbidden. Fact. In the last four years, an average of 3,130 fireworks incidents occurred during the New Year's Night. Last year, with the fireworks ban, there were 3,431. So an increase of almost 10%, while fireworks were forbidden. Fact. In the last four years there were an average of 1,626 reports of nuisance in the neighborhood during the New Year's Night. So that was without a fireworks ban. Last year, with the fireworks ban, there were 2,364. That is an increase of 45%. Fact. In the last four years there have been an average of 1,522 reports of fire and explosions on the New Year's Night. Last year, with the fireworks ban, there were 2,161. That's a 42% increase. Fact. In the last fireworks year, 2019/2020, the percentage of hospitalisations after an emergency call was 11%. Last year, with the fireworks ban, that percentage was 25%. Fact. In the last real fireworks year, 2019/2020, a total of 385 people came to the emergency room. During a weekend of skating in February 2021, 40,000 people came to the emergency room. Of them 1,000 had to be operated on. Question. Can the Minister please explain to me and to the rest of the Netherlands the logic of this year's ban on fireworks? Let's move on to some motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as 'the Committee'),]] [[noting that last year, despite a ban on fireworks, the nuisance increased;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from using the fireworks ban and available capabilities to combat illegal fireworks and other dangerous excesses around New Year's Eve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many serious and society-destructive crimes are committed by perpetrators with a history of violent crimes;]] [[Whereas detention is aimed not only at atonement but also at protecting society;]] [[Whereas society can be better protected if perpetrators are placed outside society for a longer period of time after committing several serious crimes of violence;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for the imposition of long-term detention following three serious violent crimes and the legislative changes needed to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hundreds of police stations and police stations, mainly in rural areas, have been closed in recent decades;]] [[calls on the Minister to work, in long-term visions for the police, to bring back police stations and police posts in rural areas so that the police can return to local communities and thus strengthen rural security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister wishes to spread police training and bring it closer to the residential location of potential police officers;]] [[calls on the Minister to take into account the accessibility of potential recruits in rural regions in the location of new police training courses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following several incidents by the Ministry, a manner of action (action framework) in public order disturbances resulting from animal rights activism and extremistism has been developed for mayors, police and prosecutors (the so-called triangle);]] [[Whereas this framework of action is not yet widely known or drawn to the attention of the public;]] [[calls on the Minister to proactively share the established framework of action with the local triangles and to insist that this be discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-104]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-105]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-106]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-107]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Den Haan, Mr Bishop, Mr Palland, Mr Ephraim and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall briefly reflect on this particular debate, in which it was so nice yesterday to see that so many Members of Parliament and yourself, President, had come to the understanding that it is indeed useful to address people where they cross borders. However, and I agree with Mr Azarkan, those borders sometimes pass and then I see very little action from the Chamber, and sometimes I find it really annoying that I should be the one to comment on them. So I would ask my fellow chamber members to perhaps look a little more closely at what cross-border language means, so that we can also address our directors and other MPs. And I will, of course, explain this further in the discussion with you, Mr President. Then I have some motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a legislative proposal to extend the powers of NCTV;]] [[Noting that by means of the Simons motion adopted, the Chamber (Room 30821, No. 140) stated that the powers of NCTV should not be extended;]] [[Whereas these facts are not compatible;]] [[calls on the future government to refrain from the planned extension of the powers of the NCTV, and to remove the legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Human Rights College and the National Ombudsman noted abuses in emergency care;]] [[noting that these include minors and unfit stays for the winter months;]] [[noting that there are situations in which people have to sleep in reception and asylum seekers' centres on chairs or on the ground;]] [[having noted that the Red Cross has indicated that the reception of refugees is at risk of falling by a "human lower limit," warning against the lack of essential access to medical care and unsafe situations;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the abuses of registration and reception centres, to create environments in which refugees can begin to heal their traumas, while providing appropriate psychological care to those who need it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, even after their 18th year, former unaccompanied minor refugees have to deal with a fragmented and incoherent system of various public authorities, and amv'ers regularly become entangled in the bureaucracy of this difficult-to-navigate system;]] [[Considering that the complexity of the system often means that former amps remain vulnerable to social problems such as poverty, debt and health problems for a longer period of time (until even after their 23rd year of life);]] [[noting that interest groups, such as SAMAH, are themselves trying to address such problems by means of, for example, a help desk where former amps can go for help, questions and support;]] [[Whereas such initiatives, in addition to valuable support to amv'ers, also make an important contribution to monitoring bottlenecks surrounding the integration and participation of amv'ers, and can help to improve this policy;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to strengthen existing independent support points (such as the National Help Desk of SAMAH) where former amv'ers can go for help, questions and support;]] [[to step up the national monitoring of bottlenecks in integration and participation policies for amvs in order to improve the implementation of this policy;]] [[involve the expertise and experience of civil society organisations and foundations from the field of work in shaping national monitoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have the task of assisting single minor foreigners, but public funding will stop as soon as the single minor becomes 18 years of age;]] [[Considering that the Kinderombudsman and the National Ombudsman conclude that in the transition to and first years after adulthood, many single minor foreigners are in trouble, and the existing support, for example from the Wmo, is inadequate from 18 years of age;]] [[Considering that the Kinderombudsman and the National Ombudsman indicate that the absence of care and counselling after 18 years often causes a build-up of problems, which should then be supported again for problems already aggravated at that time;]] [[having noted that municipalities have indicated that they want more money to accompany single minor refugees longer and have also recommended the Children's Ombudsman, the National Ombudsman and interest groups such as SAMAH to continue this guidance after 18 years;]] [[Whereas guidance should not cease until the big five of security of life for the young person has been regulated;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[if the young person so wishes, continue to finance the assistance and care of single minor aliens until the big five of security of life for the young person is settled;]] [[ensure the continuity of counselling after 18 years and the freedom of choice of the young person in care partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ethnic profiling is a violation of the first Article of our Constitution, and that the Council of Europe has indicated that ethnic profiling is a clear expression of discrimination based on ethnicity;]] [[noting that the Marechaussee has decided not to allow ethnicity to be an indicator in profiles or selection decisions;]] [[Whereas this is an important development in the fight against ethnic profiling;]] [[noting that, among other things, the police, Tax Administration, NCTV, UWV and municipalities are still able to make use of ethnicity when drawing up risk profiles;]] [[calls on the Government, following the example of the Royal Marechaussee, to stop making ethnicity an indicator of profiles or selection decisions in the bodies mentioned in the observations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-109]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-110]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-111]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-112]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u179	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds or thousands of people as Dutch citizens were born in the former colony of Suriname and grew up as Dutch citizens, but have been living undocumented in the Netherlands for years now with all the disastrous consequences;]] [[whereas undocumented Surinamese Dutch have deep ties with the Netherlands due to the colonial past and family ties;]] [[Whereas it is not legally possible to allow collective regulation, but the Netherlands, after 400 years of colonialism and slavery, has a moral obligation to provide undocumented Surinamese Dutch born during colonialism with valid residence papers;]] [[calls on the Government to make a humanitarian settlement setting up a general pardon for all Surinamese Dutch who were born as a Dutch citizen in the former Suriname colony but have been living undocumented on Dutch territory for years now,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Piri, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Kröger and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u181	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would almost like to table a motion to do it with less paper. The Minister of Justice would like to have a motion for that, I hear him say. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers of justice for their answers and also for the extremely clear written answers. Even if I didn't agree, it was nice to see that the answers were just clear, just what one does. I like it when there's not too much fog in it. Thank you for a number of commitments. I'd like to receive a good report, especially those abdominal pain conversations. They are very important to see where the judges themselves think: I'm making a decision here, but I don't really like it at all. It turned out to be very common. We've seen in the premium affair that, if you don't do something about it, things go wrong for years. I would like to hear more about the supervisory bill and about the state attorney and the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. For me, the central issue remains the rule of law. I really hope that in the next state committee these three issues will be taken into account, we will hear more about this next week, namely the relationship between civil government, serious crime and class justice. What are you gonna do and what aren't you gonna do? I would like to say that I consider this serious crime to be important, not because it is not sufficiently done or looked at, but because it has so far often been the case that the measures we have taken against serious crime could affect the very small citizen. I will wait tomorrow or the day after tomorrow with excitement for the letter on the execution of the motion on the removals. It is a real shame within an already shameful file that hundreds of children have still been placed out of the house. We want them to be able to return quickly. I would like to thank the police and the law enforcement for their work, but I would also like to wish them a lot of strength in the coming time, when it gets very exciting in this country with something that looks like a code black. Because then they'll have to protect care. That will really be a different task, because citizens who expect to receive protection from the government in the care they cannot get. I do not think we can underestimate how difficult that will be for both the people in the care and the police, the military or the military, who are going to be deployed. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions for resolutions and I am taking a little extra time to do so. The first motion is about the administrative loop. I am very keen to be precise, because the Minister for Legal Protection has made a proper commitment to this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that administrative procedural law has as its main objective the provision of legal protection for citizens against unlawful public acts;]] [[Considering that several legislative changes have taken place since the introduction of the Awb, such as final dispute resolution and the administrative loop, which further complicates fair legal protection for the seeking citizen;]] [[noting that the administrative judge is not entitled to carry out a full review;]] [[noting that there is rightly no obligation to provide legal assistance to lawyers in the administrative procedure......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[noting that it is necessary to strengthen the process position of the citizen from the point of view of equality or arms;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the short term what legal provisions can be included in the AWB in order to strengthen the position of the interested party, including at least the possibilities of:]] [[the inclusion in the Awb of a legal provision allowing citizens to correct their own procedural errors (the administrative loop);]] [[the inclusion of enforceable obligations by citizens with legal sanctions;]] [[make it legally possible for the administrative judge to actively point out to the citizen possible gaps in his (higher) profession and inform him of what he still needs to do to achieve success,]] [[and to include its results in the AWB amendment bill, which will be in public consultation in spring 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bisschop, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kröger, Mr Bikker, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Palland, Mr Den Haan and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u183	Mr. Chairman. The minister said: yes, of course, those parents can go to court and ask for revision. However, according to the Awb, revision can take place by two parties: both the Tax Administration and the parents can request revision. Since things have gone wrong here, I would say to the Council of State and the judges: enter into consultation and then have the Tax Administration, not the parents, submit the request for revision, where the government believes that there has been a failure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for years the Tax Administration has broken at least 13 laws and withheld information in court cases;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Administrative Court on the issue of childcare allowances,]] [[noting that the Administrative Department of the Council of State presented the written statement and apologized;]] [[considers that the judgments of the Administrative Court should not remain in the legal sphere;]] [[noting that Article 8:119 (1) of the Awb provides that "the administrative judge may, at the request of a party, review an irrevocable judgment' under the conditions set out in paragraph 1 (a), (b) and (c) of Article 8:119 Awb;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[order the Tax Administration to submit in due time a review request for all relevant surcharge cases and to state in the requests the fulfilment of all legal conditions, so that the Administrative Court should review;]] [[indicate whether a similar action is appropriate for other tax files (such as FSV or other CAF-related cases);]] [[to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u184	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year the Chamber recognised the ISIS genocide as genocide;]] [[Considering that the Government has returned a number of people who had travelled to ISIS area;]] [[Considering that the Convention on Genocide imposes an obligation to prosecute and punish offenders;]] [[noting that the collection of evidence far from the scene of the crime is difficult;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a specific prosecutor for the prosecution of extravagants to ISIS territory and to make sufficient resources available for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bishop, Mr Ceder, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Den Haan and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u185	The next item is the second term of office. I will be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security to answer a few more questions and give his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u186	Mr. Chairman. I'm going through it quickly, just like your members, and I'm essentially judging the motions. We have, of course, already had a wide-ranging debate and the written reply. Otherwise, we may be in danger of repeating ourselves. The motion in part No. 40 of Mr Helder and Mr Markuszower on tolerance policy is not recommended. The motion in part No. 41 ditto, dissuade. The motion in part No. 42. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 45 on the MIT, dissuade. The motion in part No. 50 on the ban on fireworks, dissuade them. The motion in part No. 52 is also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u187	I'm not gonna ask for it on all the motions that are dissuaded, but we had pretty good reason for that firework ban. Mrs Van der Plas even more well-founded her motion. Would you be able to argue in the motion on the ban on fireworks why you'd advise against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u188	That was stated in a letter to the Chamber last week. I would like to tell you a little about what my verdict is going to be on Mrs van der Plas' motion. It is quite clear: in the cabinet it has been established that the urgent advice came from the care department to re-establish a firework ban this year. On Mrs van der Plas' question, I would now like to say that my colleague from IenW, who is actually talking about this, and I shall be referring to the ban, but I shall be referring to enforcement in the course of next week with a response to all the figures that Mrs van der Plas mentioned and all the questions she asked. There are some other nuances in the trade-off after all. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 53 of Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Kuik. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 54 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 55 also gets judgment room. It even says "to embrace," so that's very judgmental Chamber. At the motion in part No. 56 I have the request to keep these. It's the motion on the neutral appearance of boas. Let me explain this briefly. The mayors are now talking to their municipal councils about proposals on that point. I have said before that this is about the employer's authority, which I am not about. As guardian of the system, I await the outcome of those talks. Through you, Mr President, I would like to make that very clear to those Members of Parliament who have asked questions about this. For me, the safety of the job is paramount. I would like to continue the motion until the spring of 2022 to clarify the plans of the municipalities. Then I'll also say I'll inform the Chamber. I hope it won't be necessary then, but if it is necessary, we can still deal with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u189	I would like to look at Mrs Michon-Derkzen or she the motion in part No. 56 wants to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u190	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I'd like a ruling from the Chamber, so I'm not going to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u191	Then I'll have to discourage the motion. I'm really sorry about that. I must dissuade the motion because I am not dealing with it in the present constellation. It's no different. I understand the contents of the motion. I would like to emphasise that. In this respect, I also support the agreements made within the police on this point. The motion in part No. 57 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 59 by Mr Van Nispen is not recommended. The motion in part No. 63 is also not recommended. The motion in part No. 67 by Mrs Van der Werf and Mrs Bikker will be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u192	I think it is fine that things are moving fast, especially in view of the time, but I would like to have an argument here and there. This applies, for example, to the motion which states that we must protect whistleblowers and not press charges against them. What would be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u193	Then Mr Van Nispen will have to read the whole motion again. It's a stand-up policy that no charges are filed against whistleblowers. Laws and regulations determine who is a whistleblower and lay down that protection. That means it's there for people under legal whistleblower protection. I did not forget your Chamber yesterday or the day before yesterday, but I think I wrote on Tuesday that I would like to anticipate planned new EU legislation in which people who subsequently qualify as whistleblowers are also recognised as such. You can't go to motion to supplement the law and decide that there's always a need to withdraw claims against people who bring out abuses. That doesn't make any sense with the law. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 69 by Mrs van der Werf, Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Azarkan. That motion will be judged by Chamber. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mrs Kathmann's 70, because data such as they are requested here are not kept by the police. That would really create additional administrative burdens. Sometimes I think I'm required to explain myself. Maybe that's more the case when it's not recommended than when it's judged, Chamber. The motion on the KNVB is, as far as I'm concerned, Chamber's judgment. That's the motion in part No. 72. Then I have the motion in part No. 73 by Mrs Kathmann, Ellemeet, Cuckoo, De Haan, Van der Plas and Michon on the sexual crime bill. Without further ado, Room. I have already indicated that I am doing everything I can to send it to the Council of State in the spring of 2022. It's going to the Council of State very quickly now. The sooner it is done, the sooner it can be submitted here. So there's sexual harassment in that. Then the motion to part No. 74 by Mrs Kuik. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 75 on non-criminal harassment of Mrs. Kuik and Bikker is judged Chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs Kuik's 76 on agricultural entrepreneurs and camera surveillance is also judged by the Chamber. The motion in part No. Seventy-seven of Mrs Palland's judges are Chambers. The motion in part No. 78 of Mrs Palland has been judged Chamber. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 84. That's Bikker, Michon-Derkzen, Palland and Van der Werf's motion about the executive police volunteers. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 88 of Mr Ceder's, I must advise against. Very briefly, I would like to say something about this. It's about the trial of war criminals here. The cabinet attaches great importance to combating impunity, and preventing the Netherlands from being a refuge for perpetrators of international crime. Therefore, the IND applies Article 1F of the Refugee Convention to foreigners who have serious reasons to believe that they have committed international crimes. The foreigner concerned always has the opportunity to submit the correctness of 1F to a judge. If extradition is not at issue or is not possible, it can be considered whether criminal proceedings are being carried out in the Netherlands. This is then possible in the Netherlands on the basis of the International Crimes Act. We're just gonna keep that. I have more lyrics, but I'd like to leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Koekoek's 90th report deals with examining ways of improving the approach to undermining crime according to the Italian example. Of course, we have everything to do with that, including Mr Dekker. It was a question of reviewing the Constitution, I must add. That is, in our opinion, Chamber. The motion on the action plan Hands off our aid workers gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u194	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u195	Excuse me. Excuse me. Now I went a little too fast. The motion in part No. 94 on the action plan, hands off our aid workers, is judged Chamber. I don't hear "bingo" anywhere, so I'm going to move on to the next motion. The motion in part No. 96, the motion by Mr Bishop and Mrs Van der Plas on the outskirts, has been judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 97, tabled by Mr Azarkan, on the NCTV, was not recommended. The motion in part No. 98, Mr Azarkan, on the handling of complaints within the police organisation, is also not recommended. I would like to say the following. As I indicated in my letter of 7 September 2021, the complaint treatment is further professionalised. The inspection is investigating. That research will come in spring 2022. I trust that we will certainly continue to discuss it with your Chamber. The motion in part No. 100, on the powers of control, surveillance and investigation, is also not recommended. The motion in part No. 102, tabled by Mrs Den Haan, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Kathmann, to enter into the discussion with the municipalities in order to look at opportunities for the elderly and people with vulnerable health to receive a subsidy to secure their home, is judged Chamber. That's the conversation I'm gonna have. Then the motion to part No. 103, in which the government is asked to report half-yearly on police numbers in, through and out, I have to advise against, because the police have a strategic staff planning. The six-monthly report really reports on all those key figures from the police. There is therefore no need for an additional plan of action. The motion in part No. 104 by Mrs Van der Plas. I hope she's not disappointed after what I said earlier, but I'm going to dissuade her. But I promised that next week, together with my colleague from IenW, I would come forward with a letter, which I will go into. Then the motion to part No. 106 on the Police Academy, presented by Mrs Van der Plas. The police academy is spread over ten locations, so I have to discourage the motion, because further spread will not happen. Apologies, the motion on the Police Academy is the motion in part No. 107.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u196	Can you do the last three again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u197	My bad. The motion in part No. 107 by Mrs Van der Plas was about the new police training in the region. I didn't recommend it. I said something about the motion in part No. 104, on the ban on fireworks, tabled by Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Ephraim. The motion in part No. 106 I miss. How does 70 motions make you miss one? But I see the motion is coming up now. If I make the motion to part No. 106 so read, the real return of police posts, then of course I have said the necessary in the written answer. Then all I can do is dissuade the motion. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am requested, then I will look through you at Mrs Van der Plas, in order to return to the proper strength of the rural police in a long-term view for the police, then I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. The "so that" sentence that's underneath, I'm gonna let you know what it is. That is a conclusion from the author of the motion that I am not taking on board. But if we put it that way, I can leave the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u198	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Can she accept that the Minister takes this into account in his long-term vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u199	In my view, it also simply says "calls on the Minister, in long-term visions, to work for the police to bring back police stations and police stations."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u200	Then I really must dissuade the motion in all honor and virtue, but I would still like to see if I... I understand Mrs van der Plas' point. She wants there to be enough police in the countryside. That is why I made it: calls on the Minister to pay attention to bringing the police to the right strength or strength in long-term visions. love the police in the country. It will also vary from one region to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u201	Let us look at the text. Well, that's where we're gonna end it. I'd like to explain the "so that" to you. We have decided in our motions to explain as much as possible to citizens so that they know what the motion means to them as citizens. Hence the "so that." So you can ignore that further. That's more meant for people who read a motion on the website, so they know why it's being filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u202	Well, I read: so that the police are adequately present in the local community. I just can't agree that it's gone. I have looked at this myself over the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u203	Maybe it's good to take a look at the text. As the text says here, the motion is in any case dissuaded but in the case of the interpretation you have just given, the motion receives judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u204	Yes. The motion in part No. 107, by Mrs Van der Plas, on the locations of police training, I have advised against. Then I come to the motion on part No. 108. That is the motion by Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Den Haan, Mr Bishop, Mrs Palland, Mr Ephraim and Mrs Michon-Derkzen. It's about the framework of action. That's a motion I'm giving Chamber judgment. Then I come to the motion on part No. 109, by Mrs Simons. When Mrs Simons made the motion, I thought: yes, but I am not the future government, so I cannot say anything about it. Then I thought, "I have to ask if I can read it as "the government." Only as "the government" I will discourage the motion. We came forward with such a proposal first at the request of your Chamber. That was a big majority motion. You can say from that bill that it is not what you ordered, but you have declared that as a Chamber controversial. So I have to discourage the motion, because I can't do anything with it right now. I mean, no hard feelings, but that's part of it. That is why I cannot help but dissuade the motion. Hopefully, the petitioner will understand that I cannot speak for the future government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u205	I do understand that. So I will change that. My problem is that a motion has been adopted which states that the extension of the powers of NCTV should not take place, and I am hearing a minister here calling for a motion, for example Mrs Michon-Derkzen's, in the written reply, but forgets that this motion is also there. That's a little bit where it gets tricky with me. I understand that you cannot act on behalf of the future government, but I would be delighted if the motion passed were respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u206	I don't want any misunderstandings about that. As long as I am a outgoing minister, so until a new cabinet is sworn in, let's just say that very formally. Nothing will happen to this bill. The Court has declared this controversial. And what exactly are the motions... I remember Mrs Michon's, but in any case, nothing will happen to the bill until the day there is a new cabinet. Then the new cabinet will have to talk to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u207	That is a very clear statement from the Minister. I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u208	At the request of Mrs Simons, I propose her motion (35925-VI, No. 109). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u209	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 117 I would like to say a few words first. What Mr Omtzigt is asking is very sympathetic to me in itself, but we have a number of prosecutors who... 'We have' I cannot say, because the Public Prosecutor is, of course, autonomous, but in the Netherlands we already have a number of prosecutors dealing with the prosecution of IS crimes. These officers are specifically focused on the prosecution of suspects of terrorist offences. Hopefully Mr Ommzig agrees with me that in recent years, in particular, this has played almost exclusively in the corner of people who have committed crimes on behalf of Daesh or IS, or whatever you want to call it. In that respect, I must not advise her. However, I would also like to say to your Chamber that I have had a report from the NIOD Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies on the added value of a specialised officer for the prosecution of IS fighters following previous requests from your Chamber. That's a 2019 investigation. Then both OM and NIOD said there was no need to appoint a specialized prosecutor besides what was already there to prosecute those ISIS crimes. I don't know the exact location right now, but it's a 2019 investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u210	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. I believe that Mr Ceder also had a question, because he has been waiting for a chance for a while, just like Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u211	The Minister has an interesting reasoning in itself, because he says on the one hand that there are specialised prosecutors in this and on the other hand that we do not need them. The difference between now and 2019 is that we have adopted the Kuik motion and that we have thus recognised it as genocide. That means we have an international legal obligation to prosecute. The second difference is that government policy is. It's not what I advocated, but it's policy to get some women back. In Germany, one has already been convicted of crimes against a Jezidi child who was starved and died at the age of five. That is why I urge the government to do so. The burden of proof is very difficult in such cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u212	Clear. Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u213	That really misses the fact that even before I became a minister, there were officers who were focused on this. I'm so sure, because my very first work visit as a minister was at the state's attorney's office. There I got a presentation from two prosecutors and one of them was an officer focused on terrorist crimes. Also because of the late hour, I understand that Mr Omtzigt does not fully reflect my words. I said officers specializing in terrorist crimes. So they are not, as far as is necessary, purely specialised in IS. The NIOD says that it is not necessary and I was just considering that the majority of things are more in the corner of ISIS at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u214	Mr Ceder may take a moment and then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u215	The Minister has the motion in part No. 88 dissuade. That motion is about 1F policy and prosecuting it where that is not possible. He says: if extradition is not at issue or is not possible, it can be considered whether criminal proceedings can be carried out in the Netherlands. That's exactly what my motion is asking for. What the Minister has just read back is also reflected in yesterday's reply. I changed my motion to that, too. This is a very specific category, which is now not being prosecuted in a democratic rule of law, on the one hand because they cannot be extradited and on the other because they are not being prosecuted in the Netherlands. The Minister states that the Netherlands has that opportunity. I know that, and that is why I call in my motion for a resolution to do so if extradition or prosecution is not possible. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain why my motion, which is an understatement of yesterday's response, is not recommended. And can the Minister help me with the wording or a sentence so that we can find each other? Then we will make it possible to safeguard the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u216	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u217	Here's the part of "I didn't read it, because I thought it was clear: "The autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the principle of opportunity." Yesterday, it is Friday, with Mr Markovic or with Mr Markuszower, excuse me, I had a brief debate. If we were to decide here to say to the Public Prosecutor "you have to do this," that would be a clue. Then I would say that there should be a whole debate ahead of that. For that reason alone, I would advise against the motion. If Mr Ceder says: how would you do this... I would also like to point out the report letter international crimes that your Chamber receives annually. You will see that in recent years, the TIM, the International Crimes Team, has launched a number of such criminal proceedings. The motion could still be amended, in the sense that it is being asked to highlight its importance in the Public Prosecutor's Office. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am only going to give a clue if I receive a very harsh instruction from your Chamber, with apparent reluctance, because I do not agree with that. We have to keep that apart. You have heard me say to Mr Markuszower, through the President, that, as far as I am concerned, we should take that lead out of our rights. I believe that Mr Groothuizen has been mentioned here before, but that was yesterday, so I would also like to mention him again today on an initiative proposal to that effect. You will notice that I say that, as a government, we should not get involved in this too much, perhaps because of the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u218	Before the Minister starts his closing speech: I missed the judgment on the motion in part No. 63. That could be because I was very upset because the Minister had dissuaded the motion on the whistleblowers. But this motion is about police education. For once in that I ask something not very unreasonable. I have identified a number of bottlenecks here. I'm really worried about that. I'm not asking for a bag of money. I ask the Minister to take these issues seriously and to come up with a vision and practical effect. In fact, I cannot imagine that the Minister is not prepared to do that in something as fundamental as our police education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u219	In my letter of 19 November I discussed the quality of police education in detail. It seems to me very good that, if we have a committee debate on the police, I should like to make sure that we respond once again to the points raised by Mr Van Nispen in his motion, following the letter of 19 November. But I would advise against the motion at that point, because this has just been considered and we have actually reported it to your Chamber, including the extra money that has come through the Hermans motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u220	Thank you, Minister. Would you like another word?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u221	Well, that sounds very nice, but you know what that means with the Justice Department. But, Mr President, I would like to thank your Chamber for this extensive debate, in which we have really exchanged a lot of subjects, in a lot of different keys, we can also say that quietly. I would just like to say a few words about the discussion that took place here yesterday and where, of course, we here in Box K, although at some point we seemed to be directly affected by the Code of Criminal Law, were only spectators. I have greatly appreciated that there will be just a debate. Why do I appreciate that? Because it tells the people who are concerned at the moment whether we still have a full democracy and a good rule of law, that we really do have one. There is a great deal of contradiction. There was a few sharp contradictions on me today too, which means that we are moving forward as a whole. I'm really closing up. The Venice Committee has quite rightly criticised the Netherlands, so this cabinet, for the extravagant affair, but has said to the three powers: okay, but at least you are still working on a solid rule of law, because you talk to each other about things and you are also accountable. We all have to keep doing that. It was a bit of a long closing word, but you have it every now and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u222	Thank you, Minister. It should not be taken personally; it sometimes sounds so weird, and then I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still owe Mr Omtzigt two answers. The first is about how things are going with the Surveillance Act. I was wondering, what's this about? I took the motion and I know why it didn't immediately ring a bell to me. This is a subject that lies with the Secretary of State for the Interior. I'll ask him to let you know what's going on with that. The second answer concerns the two authors of the opinion drawn up in the framework of the Tax Administration. I have checked this with the Council of State and it has been reported to me that the two painted names of authors are not the persons employed or who have worked at the Council of State. Mr President, then there are the motions. The motion in part No. 43 over 41a, Italy. I'd advise against it. We have such a regime in the Netherlands, and that is called the Ebi regime. We can learn a lot from Italy, but this adds little. The motion in part No. Forty-four, I'd advise against it, because such an investigation has already been carried out. If Mr Markuszower is interested in this, I would advise him to look into it. Then the motion to part No. 51. I advise against this, because that would de facto mean the end of life imprisonment in the Netherlands. The motion in part No. 60 by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Omtzigt on the Council of State, with reference to the rather extensive discussion we had on this subject in the debate. The motion in part No. 61 on the Hague Children's Abduction Treaty: judgment Chamber. The motion on the limitation period, in part No. 62, I'm not sure. I will, again, because that limitation period also has a function. In a very specific case, we have said very exceptionally that we no longer call on it. But to say "because you did it there, you have to do it there again and do it there and do it there" really takes me a step too far. Moreover, I would like to await the investigation in any case when it comes to domestic adoption. Then the motion to part No. 68 on prevention, youth and the right approach in small municipalities: Court of Justice opinion. Then the motion to part No. 79, on a national coordinator on violence against women. I'd advise against it. Violence does not belong anywhere and if there is one place where two ministries work very well and very closely together to act in a coordinated manner in the area of domestic violence and violence against women, it is there. So I do not see the added value of a national coordinator there. The motion in part No. 80 adds something. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. I do not know if Mr Azarkan's motion still stands. Has it moved in? Not yet? Then you're gonna have to pass judgment on that later. Then the motion to part No. 81, on legal aid. I would like to say a few words about this. We are now working very specifically to see what is needed, including in terms of extending legal aid, to do justice to people who can't really handle it alone, people with a small wallet, and wherever it is too complicated. In fact, in the meantime, we have also made an arrangement for this. What is being asked in this motion is actually much more generic. It says: you have to do it eventually in all cases. I already indicated: if you object, you will be completely tied. So I think that is unwise, and that is why I would advise against the motion in part No. 81. The judgment on the motion in part No. I can leave 85 to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 91 belongs to Mrs. Koekkoek. This is a formal point and is actually about everything that has to do with the legislative process. A standing principle is that the cabinet always has the Council of State as its last advisor. The cabinet then responds to that advice by means of a further report to your Chamber. That is a standing principle and, in my view, a good principle. After that, your Chamber will have to make a judgment on this matter. Now it is said in the motion: all these adjustments or non-modifications, which you have reason to submit in that more detailed report, you will have to submit again to those advisors. This would, for our part, require a completely different organisation of the legislative process. And I don't think it's necessary or useful. I also hear the former chairman of the First Chamber say here that the First Chamber has a role in this too, of course. This is without prejudice to the Court's right to ask for its own opinion if it sees fit to do so. I'll come to the motion in part No. 95, by Mr Bishop. First of all, I am going to remove a misunderstanding, namely the misunderstanding that people can avoid paying a fine or a compensation scheme through replacement detention. That is not the case. Replacement detention or hostageage is used to force people to pay, but with that the damage or penalty remains. This is about a recital in the motion. Having said that, I agree with the operative part. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan, on the same grounds as I indicated in the motion for a resolution, I would advise you not to do so. 81. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan's 101 is about the vog. I can tell you about that: Judge Room. But if there were to be a choice between the two, I would note that Mrs Ellemeet's motion goes a little further and adds a little more. I'll come to the motion in part No. 105. Yesterday I had a nice little debate with Mr Eerdmans on repeated and increased penalties. I now read this motion as follows, or at least that's how I interpret it. Mrs van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans say here: okay, the three strikes and you're out approach does not have to be taken, but we do want to know whether it is repeated, especially in the case of serious crimes of violence, that actually increases the penalty. They suggest that we do some good research on this. And if it does not appear to lead to an increase in punishment, then what should be further regulated should be considered. If I may interpret the motion in this way, then I can get out of my way and leave it to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 113.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u224	It is not my own motion, but I do have a question about the motion in part No. 105. Because, of course, we have to vote on it. I was under the impression that the Minister thought that recidivism is already a ground for judges to get away with. What indication or assumption does the Minister have which would show that this is not the case at the moment, that judges would not consider that right now or that the probation would not give good advice on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u225	I don't have those clues, but that's not stated in this motion either. Here we are asked to do research and identify what possibilities there are. I find that useful in itself. People make mistakes over and over and over again. When I read this motion, I understand that this is not a small shoplifting, but a serious violent crime. I think that society can say at some point: enough is enough. You may say: if you do not use the time in prison to stay on the straight track after the prison period, then the time you need to sit inside becomes longer. I don't think that's crazy at all. I've already talked about the incapacitation effect: if you lock someone up, he can't do any harm outside. Suppose you use that and say: then we will also see if there can be more severe punishment as it happens more often. To what extent does this happen in practice? If not, what could we do to perhaps take that a step further? That's something I could get out of my way with. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 113 is about ethnic profiling. I fully agree with Mrs Simons when it comes to the pain felt by people who work hard, want to make the best of it and get taken out every time. There are few things that make me feel so bad as the stories I hear from young people who say "I'm doing my best here and I'm having trouble with it every time." When I look at what this motion is asking, I find that it is incredibly generic. That's why I'm going to dissuade her. Because if you tell the government that even in serious cases, where there is a significant interest and a justified distinction could be made, your ethnicity or nationality should no longer be considered, then I think we have a problem. Let me give you a few examples. Population survey: the prevalence of diabetes among the Hindu inhabitants in this city is many times higher than among other inhabitants. The municipality uses that to approach precisely this target group to be tested. Two. We do a lot in the field of diversity. Sometimes it is therefore relevant to look at.... that is more in terms of positive discrimination... what you can do. When it comes to nationality: we have many discussions here in this house about withdrawing Dutch citizenship from a dual nationality, but then you have to make it possible to register it. Those are three examples. I think one example might appeal to Mrs Simons more than the other. They'll show that if we took this motion, it wouldn't be possible anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u226	Thank you for the clear answer. I'm supposed to have an intention of doing the right thing. However, we have of course Article 1 of our Constitution, so there is rarely or never, except for those places where it is of medical importance for example... On the contrary, I agree with this Minister very much, and we should certainly do so, as far as I am concerned, even more often, for example in the case of covid and the like, on which I have asked for figures earlier. But this motion explicitly includes police, tax authorities, NCTV and UWV. From local authorities, the Minister says that they could use this to the benefit of others. However, very specifically, there are organisations that I believe, particularly on the basis of the first article of our Constitution, never have a justified basis to weigh ethnicity or nationality. My question is actually: if we do not talk about municipalities, but about the organisations mentioned, can the Minister give the motion a ruling Chamber, especially now that the precedent of the Royal Marechaussee has been created?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u227	I cannot look at the operations of all these large implementing organisations, but of the NCTV, which is covered by my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, I know that nationality or, for example, dual nationality when it comes to people who pose a threat to national security, can be relevant to registration. The judge will allow that, too, and offer that space. At the same time, I feel sorry for the inconvenience. We have, of course, also seen where it is happening in the last few months in a way that it is not possible. I know that my colleague from BZK is taking stock of what needs to be done to keep some of those risky processes under review and to see if it is really justified. I understand that I believe she will come to your Chamber with a letter in December to reflect on that. You might consider holding the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u228	I am going to think about that, but I would very much like to say that the argument concerning the withdrawal of dual nationality is certainly not grounded in me. I think everyone has the same right to be a crook. It is not that we also consider withdrawing their Dutch identity from people who were born in the Netherlands, with native Dutch roots, at the time of doing something very serious, so that argument does not find any basis for me. I'm gonna think about whether or not to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u229	Then the motion to part No. 115, with the handouts around the Awb. I can give him a ruling room. Then the motion to part No. 116. I find it difficult to give them advice, because it gives an order to the Tax Administration. In any case, I will ask my colleague in the Tax Office if she wishes to give advice on this motion. We also see that it is quite complicated when we look at what we all ask the Tax Administration, in terms of compensation, reimbursement etc., etc. I would say emotionally: I see the point of principle, but material, et cetera. Anyway, I'm actually gonna do a little practice for her. I will ask her to let you know in writing what her reaction is to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u230	Then I would like to speak before Tuesday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u231	Yes, it should be possible, and if it isn't, you'll hear it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank everyone for a very good debate on the budget, on some very fundamental things and on the presence during this debate, perhaps minus Mr Van Meijeren of Forum, after last night. Maybe he's busy filing a report today. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u232	Thank you, Minister. Then we go back to cleaning up and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who has a number of questions to answer and then her appreciation of a number of motions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, and I will answer them first. First of all, Mr Valstar's question on when the Court can receive the analysis of the Court's judgment in an Austrian case. I expect it will certainly be possible to inform your room immediately after the turn of the year. Then there was a question from Mrs Podt about making the scheme for the promotion of housing of status holders more useful. The scheme is always in consultation with municipalities. The regulations that Mrs Podt is referring to are always reviewed by me and my colleague in the Interior at the VNG, precisely in view of their usefulness. Then there was a question from Mrs Podt about an additional registration location before the end of the year. I can answer Mrs Podt that I am committed to at least a second registration centre and that I certainly do not exclude a third centre at a later date. I note that getting a second registration centre fully operational is not going to work before the turn of the year. Nevertheless, I am committed to doing this as soon as possible, but there will be a lot to open a real registration centre. Another question from Mrs Podt about the self-care arrangements, namely whether the former self-care arrangements cannot come back. It is true that they once existed. My view is that these have been brought to an end partly because of a number of disadvantages, but I would like to have another look at them. I will inform your Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u234	The Secretary of State says it's not fully operational by the end of the year. Okay, that's fine. But when? We're all trying to get a little more certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u235	I said we'd make every effort to do it as soon as possible. But there have to be people. I.D.'s and registration's gonna be a lot of fun. Really, Mrs Podt can accept from me that I fully recognise the need and the question that has been asked. Because we have to make sure that Ter Apel isn't overrun because it's the only sign-in center. I am committed to getting it done as quickly as possible, but in a logistical sense there is a little more to it than just sticking a sign on the door with "this is a registration centre." That's why we're working hard on it. Yesterday I talked to the director of the IND about it, because he has to work hard to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u236	Mrs Podt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u237	I really understand how hard it's being worked on by everyone. I'm sure you do. But I am curious: are we talking about a matter of weeks or are we talking about a matter of months? What are we gonna see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u238	Getting a second registration centre fully operational will not be possible before the turn of the year. Nevertheless, I am committed to doing so as soon as possible. Maybe we don't have it 100% yet, but as far as I'm concerned: even if we only have it around 75%, I'll put the sign on the door and then we'll get started. So, as far as I am concerned, I say to Mrs Podt as soon as possible, because it is also an issue for me. Well, I just talked about the self-arrangements. Mrs Podt had another question about making work for asylum seekers for whom the hotline is far away. If asylum seekers move to a place outside the azc, they can request the transfer of the notification requirement. The initiative lies with the asylum seeker himself. It is not possible for the COA to take the initiative. Finally, the asylum seeker must provide information about this himself. But that can be done very well. Mrs Koekkoek had another question about visas. Mrs Koekkoek points out from the written answers that visas are subject to the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I will therefore pass on her request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as I say to Mrs Koekkoek through the President. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Markuszower's 46. The motion in part No. I should also advise against 47 of Mr Markuszower. The motion in part No. I should also advise against Mr Markuszower's 48th. You are now aware of our assessment of many of your party's motions to close the borders. The motion in part No. I should also advise against 49 of Mr Markuszower, because the Netherlands adheres to the European agreements on care. The motion in part No. 58 by Mr Valstar, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Unfortunately, 64 of Mr Jasper van Dijk have to be discouraged, because the assessment of the parliamentary questions of 28 October states that the Netherlands does not have a policy of humanitarian admission programmes and the granting of humanitarian visas with the aim of being able to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has had a fixed resettlement quota for years, and we are working with it. The motion in part No. I should also advise Mr Jasper van Dijk on the supervision of buses, because the motion seems to go beyond the agreements we have already made with the carrier. It goes on, because it is not up to the state to talk to transport companies about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u239	I have a brief question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 64. The Secretary of State says we don't have such a program. No, that's exactly the point. That is why we ask the government to set up such a programme. That is what other countries are doing, and I think that is very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u240	Your Chamber knows that for many years, the Netherlands has had a fixed resettlement quota, which provides active protection for refugees who come across in that context. And the Cabinet does not intend to come up with additional humanitarian frameworks for the crossing of persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u241	There is another question from Mr Ceder. On what motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u242	A question to the motion in part No. 58 by Mr Valstar, on PCR tests. He had judgment room. We recognise the situation and the problem. What is of course involved here is that a constitutional weighting should be made for a mandatory PCR test. I was wondering whether you could include this explicitly in the exploration or research, because it is, of course, important for the Chamber to be able to give an opinion on this. So the question is, do you want to take that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u243	I can give the answer "sure."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u244	That motion will be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u245	I know. But at least bear in mind that an exception can be made to the Constitution. That is what the police do when they take blood tests, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u246	We are looking at the perspectives of action to find a solution. But taking a covid test under duress is part of the exploration to come up with solutions, and we take all aspects of it with us. And what Mr Valstar has just said will certainly go along with it. It is very important to examine this thoroughly, but as has been made clear in my answer, my first-term answer, it is a real obstacle at the moment and really very difficult. In the meantime, I had arrived at the 27th motion, that of Mr Jasper van Dijk in part No. 66. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. We have talked about this in the written reply, and also just now. I have discussed this in detail with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Then motion number 31, which in part No. 70 by Mrs Kathmann, Mrs Piri, Mrs Kröger, Mrs Koekoek, Mrs Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Simons and Mr Jasper van Dijk. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The Netherlands carried out the motion as it was. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u247	Before you proceed, a question from Mrs Kathmann, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u248	Can the Minister explain more explicitly what she means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u249	I'm the Secretary of State. Yeah, I get a better position here every time, fantastic. We agreed that we would take over 100 vulnerable people from Greece, including 50 minors and 50 families with children. We worked very hard at that time to see if those 50 minors were there, because that was really the stake. In the end, only two wanted to come to the Netherlands; others still had relatives elsewhere. What we did then is extend it to include families with children, and we also discussed it with your Chamber. And I have to say that a total of 57 minor children came over at the time with those 100 vulnerable people from Moria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u250	Mrs Kathmann, very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u251	Yes. That deal explicitly included those children without a family. They're here now. And they are no longer safe countries, because Afghanistan is no longer safe. So the bears the Secretary of State throws on the road are off. And it would be really nice if that deal were just kept, because this motion doesn't ask for anything new; this is just something that has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u252	We carried out the motion, with the agreement of the Chamber, as it could be done at that time, namely: two single minors, because at that time there were no more than those who were willing to come to the Netherlands, and 57 underage children. This has been discussed and agreed with your room. So the motion was carried out, or at least the appointment for the Moria deal. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. Then the motion to part No. 82 by Mrs Kröger and Mrs Koekkoek, among others. It concerns particular attention for a number of groups from safe countries. I'm gonna have to dissuade him, 'cause... Yeah, if there's gonna be a reason, I can give it to you. The motion in part No. 83 by Mrs Kröger and Mrs Koekkoek, because this is what Greek legislation is about. You still want to hear the motivation; I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u253	We saw it happen at the motion in part no. 82.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u254	I noticed it myself! In general terms, each application for asylum is assessed on individual grounds. The specific position and individual account of the applicant shall be taken into account. Within the context of the safe countries of origin, "increased attention" means that in these cases the IND is particularly alert to the possibility that the designation of a safe country of origin cannot be contested in the individual case and therefore a case may not be dealt with in the accelerated procedure in track 2 but in the general or extended asylum procedure in track 4. However, I believe that it is in fact detrimental to the system that it should no longer be determined individually but should be chosen as a standard for a longer procedure. That's what the motion requires: standard. We do it individually. That is why the motion in part No. 82 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u255	I will not open an entire debate at this late hour. We have put questions to the House about a very specific case of a young Georgian woman who is in danger of being expelled. In that case, "extra attention" means nothing at all in practice. So the question is: if someone threatens to be sent to a safe country, what kind of legal status does "extra attention" have? And can't these people be carefully assessed in Track 4?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u256	I have just explained that each application is assessed individually. This is the case throughout the asylum procedure. On the basis of that individual assessment, the procedure will then be examined. The same applies to Ihbti and safe countries. That is the procedure used by the IND. I'm in favour of that. Then the motion to part No. 83. I must advise against this, because this is about Greek legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u257	I explicitly asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u258	Yes, and I will answer that question. Because this concerns the motion, which I must discourage. The question was whether saving people could be an exception clause and whether we would like to include it in Dutch legislation. You also asked if we would urge other countries and at European level to declare that non-humanitarian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u259	That's the motion. But I asked the question whether the Secretary of State can confirm that saving people can never be punishable. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u260	Saving people at sea is a duty based on the law of the sea. We agree on that. You're asking if this could never be a criminal offence. I can't answer that question categorically. This will always depend on the circumstances of the case. I am therefore not prepared to do what you said in the motion. That's why I'm deceiving that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u261	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u262	Then the motion to part No. Mr Ceder, on safety in azc's for lhbti. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 87) by Mr Ceder, on the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State and on its reflection. That's a speech-out. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I must advise against this motion, because I note that the human dimension and services within the alien chain are not new themes. The perspective and importance of the stranger are part of the practice. Each case is assessed individually. Further steps have now been taken in the Ministry's Directorate General Migration and in the migration chain with regard to the critical review of foreign policy, legislation and its implementation. This concerns the entire migration chain. Your Chamber was informed of this in July 2021. Within our asylum system, the judge is the par excellence of the party that can independently review the content of asylum decisions. I do not want to interfere with this point of view, nor do I want to dedicate this task to the inspection. By the way, the inspection itself determines what it is investigating. It shall be independent in that regard. For those reasons, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u263	Mr Ceder, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u264	I am holding the motion, also because I misread it, but I would like to point out that yesterday the Secretary of State indicated that she would come back to the report on specific cases submitted at the beginning of this year and that there might be a reflection on that. So I would like to tell you that you promised yesterday that you will return to that at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u265	The question was yesterday Mr Ceder should correct me if I say it wrong or the Council of State could reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u266	No, I'm talking about the report that came out of my head in April, I say, with some sort of black book. Yesterday you indicated that you would return to the content of these matters in January or at least at the beginning of the year. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u267	Yeah, JenV and the IND are responding to that. That's also indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u268	At the request of Mr Ceder, I propose his motion (35925-VI, No. 89). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u269	The motion in part No. Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kröger, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann spoke about the barriers and the walls at the European external borders. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The same motion was also tabled in the debate on the European Council. The cabinet didn't advise her then, and I'm doing it again. The motion in part No. Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kröger, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann spoke about the motion which had been adopted before, about the lhbti asylum seekers in all the azc's. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. It has been asked for earlier and a number of concrete steps, including a number of minimum standards, have been mentioned in written answers to your Chamber on 5 March. I have taken note of the WODC report and agree with you that lhbti asylum seekers are a vulnerable group. Therefore, COA intends to create minimum standards in 2022 in consultation with relevant interest organisations. Wherever possible, the COA already looks at whether lhbti asylum seekers, if they need it, can be placed together. It also seeks to assign its own room to lhbti asylum seekers if needed. That is not possible at any location at the moment, but it is being worked hard. That is why I must discourage the motion, because it is actually a policy. Then the motion to part No. Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Kröger, on abuses at emergency shelter. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment. There is ambition from this motion. I recognize this as the objective of my policy. That's why I'm giving the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 111, Mr Simons, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Kröger, deal with minors, even after their 18th years. I dissuade the motion, which is based on long-term guidance from former amvs, until beyond the age of 21. The cabinet has once realised the funds for 2022 for the 18 to 21 age group. In doing so, the cabinet has clear guidance, similar to that envisaged for other 18 to 21-year-olds, along the usual route of Nidos, as is the case in youth care. The motion in part No. I must also advise against 112 of Mr Simons and Mr Koekkoek. I have just said that the cabinet has occasionally made funds available for reception. Structural funding for a longer period is up to a new cabinet. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 114 members Simons, Koekkoek, Piri, Gijs van Dijk, Kröger and Den Haan deal with thousands of people born as a Dutch citizen in the former colony Suriname. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion is addressed to all missionary directors. This was answered in writing yesterday and I will repeat the answer. The independence of Suriname in 1975 determined which persons remained a national of the Netherlands and which persons acquired Surinamese nationality. For those who obtained Surinamese nationality, this means that they need a residence permit for long-term stay in the Netherlands, similar to other foreigners. Initially there was a flexible transitional arrangement for Surinamese. It lasted five years. After that, there was no longer a more flexible policy, except for admission for medical reasons. After a long period of independence, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there is no longer any reason to treat Suriname nationals differently from other nationals of countries outside the European Union. Suriname is a safe country, to which people can return. For that reason, there is no basis for the offer of a general's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u270	Obviously, I do not agree with this appreciation. If it wasn't almost 1:30 in the night, perhaps I would have said a few words about it with the President's permission. For now, I'm going to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u271	At the request of Mrs Simons, I propose her motion (35925-VI, No. 114). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u272	This was the last motion I had to pass judgment on. I would also like to thank you and Members for the debate we have had here on an important issue such as asylum and migration, but also not to mention trafficking in human beings and prostitution. I have greatly appreciated your contact with your Chamber. I am also impressed by the way you led yesterday that very difficult debate that took place here, with that nasty period in between. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u273	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u274	Mr President, thank you for allowing this. Mrs Palland asks to note that she has tabled the motion on item No. Ninety-six also sign in. I think it's the most convenient way to report that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u275	We're gonna take care of that. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the three directors for their careful and comprehensive response. I would like to thank the Members of the House, the people in the public gallery, there is one more delegation and our supporters. Thanks also to the messengers and the chamber keepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-25-tweedekamer-12.u276	We're going to vote on the motions next Tuesday. We will vote on the amendments and budgets in the week of 7 December 2021. Have a good night. Good night.
