ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws related to strengthening the criminal approach to undermining crime (strengthening criminal approach to undermining crime), Section 35564. We have nine speakers from the Chamber. There is a completely wrong development, because many of the participants have just increased their speaking time: one minute more, two more minutes. And it was my intention to look also in the direction of the Minister, to make it nice and concise tonight, so that we can go home at a Christian time. But, yeah, we're all excited. Mr Van Nispen said: it has been postponed for so long, I got all fresh, new ideas. Well, of course we should never do that. That is also a lesson for the Registry, to quickly book things in, otherwise people will think too much. Anyway, I'm gonna do my best to keep it short and pointy. If that's what you're trying to do... Take a critical look at your speech, I would say: perhaps an interruption you have practiced in front of the mirror can be avoided. Mr Sneller has already been deleted. Mr Eerdmans will also be extra brief and concise. That's how we're gonna keep it short tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u2	We have nine speakers from the Chamber, as I said. The first speaker is Mrs Michon of the VVD Group. She's got 12 minutes, but I'm sure she's gonna do her best to keep it a little shorter. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have big shoes to fill here tonight, big shoes to fill, because I am of course used to having my colleague Dilan Yeşilgöz stand here and speak on behalf of the VVD on safety. I would also like to congratulate her once again from this place. In fact, I would like to congratulate the Minister on such a fantastic colleague in the cabinet. I will try tonight to bring her good work on this bill to a successful conclusion. We are talking tonight about a part of the legislative agenda undermining. The whole package has a strong focus on tackling the illicit drug industry, starting from disrupting a criminal process and tackling the earning model. I don't suppose anyone can argue with that. This bill deals with the part of threat. I am therefore very pleased that threats to directors, toga carriers and politicians are being punished more severely. This is really necessary for the protection of our democratic rule of law. A quarter of the mayors, I read, are threatened. A quarter of the mayors! You can hardly imagine people putting their finger on this job. I would therefore like to ask the Minister in this way: can he also ensure that we do not trivialize this? Because threat always starts with a simple message or maybe a small shot online, and that ends in a serious threat. And let the employer ask for attention in cases where this can be done, or the dome, for example the Dutch Society of Mayors. Moreover, I did not see that the association responded to this bill. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what he thinks about this. And along this path I would also like to call on all: even if it is a sense of threat, report it, so that we can get to it as soon as possible. One important group is forgotten in this bill, and these are the journalists. As far as I am concerned, journalists are one of the foundations of a functioning democratic rule of law with their independent and critical news. As well as those others, the representatives of the judiciary, the legislative and executive powers. A group of journalists are under heavy security because they're not sure of their lives. They can't just sit on a terrace or with their families on the street. Their colleagues are in anonymous vans, because journalists are now free to be threatened, beaten and spit on. Your equipment is set on fire. If you take a press photo of a fire, you'll be in a car and already upside down in the ditch. And even if you're outside a divine service, you run the chance of getting beat up or hit by a car. That is why I come together with Mr Sneller of D66 with an amendment to give this group the same position in the law as we have done for politicians, directors and toga carriers. And I hope for broad support in the rest of this Chamber. Part of this law deals with the handling of facilitators, which is a difficult word, for example, when it comes to drug production. My group is very pleased that we are extending this law to include the availability and transport of chemicals. So the pathetic gentleman or lady who didn't know what was in his van, we're gonna take this as well. I am very pleased with the safety net that is now in place to make the raw materials which are not already on a European list and which are not legally known, punishable by a ministerial regulation. I would therefore ask the Minister to continue to stress at European level that this European list of banned chemicals is being adapted more quickly, because the Dutch system is only a safety net, because it is slow. We cannot use this inertia in dealing with this serious crime. The second point with those facilitators... I'm gonna do it to myself, aren't I? It is the collection of enforcement costs. As far as my group is concerned, that is also a good proposal. The costs the state incurs, for example for rolling up hemp farms or destroying illegal fireworks, we tell on the perpetrator. He may also be an errand boy who didn't know what he was doing, but that must be punished. I would like to ask the Minister whether this also applies to weapons being seized, because I do not see that in the documents. On this point, I also have a question for the Minister in response to the Council of State's response. On the one hand, it states that the little boy is indeed caught and that it is often difficult to recover costs, but on the other hand that we should use this for the category where there are high costs of destruction. So how does that relate to each other? I hope that, regardless of the cost to the State, we will see these types of crimes, illegal fireworks and hemp farms as a serious threat to the environment and to public health, and that we will at all times try to recover the costs incurred by the State from the perpetrator. Moreover, I think it is a good move by this Minister to give the judge the opportunity, in line with the Council of State, to moderate that claim on the basis of the ability to bear. Then another part of this law. That is criminalising the illegal stay at a port, airport or yard for intruders. I have asked written questions with my colleague Yeşilgöz about drugs in the port of Rotterdam. That was in the news a month ago. This was precisely about workers in the port of Rotterdam who engage in criminal activities besides their regular work. Do I understand correctly, through the chairman, I ask the Minister, that this really sees the criminal intruders, not the employees? Then the next point of this law. That is that the SEO, the criminal execution investigation, will be extended so that, after authorisation by a judge commissioner, we can investigate more about the ability of a convicted person to find out how the fine or compensation can be collected. In the questions of the VVD, it was specified whether this also sees on foreign property. The Minister responded positively, but do I understand that this enlargement will make it easier to involve foreign assets? Or did we already and still do that? So how does this enlargement view the possibility of involving foreign assets? Finally, Mr President, the subject of doxing. It's a new term for me, too. Doxing is the collection, distribution or publication of personal data for the purpose of scaring those concerned. My group wants this to be criminalised, because of its preventive effect, in order to detect and deal with the perpetrators, and in particular to protect the police, who have a lot to do with this, but also journalists. With the penalty I have indicated in my amendment, I would like to align myself with the penalty for threats. Here too, I hope for broad support from the Chamber, because we must not let it happen that people who stand for our freedom and for our free values are not sure of their own freedom. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Spacious in time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yeah, perfect, perfect. Mr Van Nispen has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u5	I haven't been practicing this interruption in front of the mirror, so it's gonna go all wrong. However, I have a question about the content of Mrs Michon-Derkzen's amendment. I have sympathy for the proposal. I also know the stories of the agents who live in fear because their data has been revealed and published. So I'm just sympathetic to that. I have the following question to ask Mrs Michon because perhaps the preparation was done by Mrs Yeşilgöz. Because of the submission of this amendment, which is actually a new proposal to this bill, it could not, of course, go to the Council of State, at least we are not aware of any opinion on it. What has the VVD Group done to see whether this is a good and well thought-out legal proposal on all sides? Is there any contradiction organised? Has advice been requested from the law, the judiciary, etc.? They could, for example, have seen whether this crime can be proved, to name but a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u6	It is true that I am taking over from Mr Yeşilgöz. You're right to say that. This has been discussed with police and journalists, those for whom we are doing it, and indeed, as far as I know, not with ZM, the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u7	You tabled two amendments, didn't you? What amendment was this question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u8	11.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u9	The amendment in part No. 11. Thank you. Was that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u10	I have a very brief follow-up question. I understand that. I also understand that we're doing this for cops and journalists. But since it's about legislation and because it's about a new sentence, I think it would be very good... Well, let me speak for myself: I am very curious to see what the Minister says about it, because we, too, must of course be able to judge whether a new sentence in our Penal Code is well thought out and whether or not we can support it in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. Mrs Bikker may also have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u12	Like Mr Van Nispen, I am very much in agreement with the words on how bad doxing is. In this sense, there is every sympathy for the amendment. At the same time, it's a little strange about this bill. That is why I am asking the question, because this is an important element that sometimes just poisons the social debate, or would not fit in with a wider debate, in which we are talking about those aspects, about what happens to policemen and others whose names are simply mentioned to set up the arrows. Wouldn't it also be better for society's consciousness if we banned this as a society and didn't just add it to a debate here as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u13	It is a fair question, but I think that we are doing an act here by trying to criminalise it through this amendment. As a result, as a Chamber, we set the standard that we do not accept this. Of course, it deserves a social debate. That debate has been going on for a long time, and it will continue to be. As Mr Van Nispen rightly said, the question is also whether the judiciary can do well with this. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. He knows the amendment; he has received it before. I think, on the contrary, that we should set a standard here as a Chamber and say: we think this is so serious that we do not only want to talk about this, but also want to do something about it. We must say that this is a criminal offence in our view, and it must be included as a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u14	I understand very well that you want to make this a criminal offence and that you want to set a standard. I'm not questioning that either. But I do wonder if it is wise to include this in this bill, which actually has a different theme. It's good to know about something weird that you're adding, the advice and the conversation properly. That is why I have doubts about this amendment, which I will give you in advance, while I would like to support the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u15	Clear. In this context, I would specifically ask the Minister for his opinion on this amendment, which he will give, and in particular on the underlying objective which my group is pursuing with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u16	Fine, thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law regulates a number of points, such as heavier penalties, more cost stories on offenders and better investigation into the property of a criminal. This law therefore sees the criminal side of undermining crime, especially on the tough, repressive side. That is partly fine, but there is hardly any mention of prevention in this legislative proposal. I often miss that in the cabinet approach to undermining crime. Asked about the lack of preventive measures, the Minister denied this, because he proudly said that at the moment 8 municipalities have received occasional resources to strengthen their preventive approach to undermining in vulnerable neighbourhoods. 8 of the 350 municipalities we have in the Netherlands have received funds from the Minister for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 to invest in preventive measures, in order to prevent young people and young adults in particular from entering organised crime in socially and economically weaker neighbourhoods. And yes, that is very much needed; it must be a top priority to ensure that young people do not slip and fall prey to the heavy boys. But can the Minister outline what has been done about that money? Does he really think this is enough in those eight municipalities? Why are we talking about occasional and not structural money? Does the Minister think it's all resolved after 2022? Is he prepared to make structural funds for this as soon as possible? Because prevention is better than cure. So why not make a full effort to prevent crime? Can the Minister reflect on the fact that the number of youth workers has not increased since 2009? Is he willing to invest in that too? As far as we are concerned, the current prevention policy can be strengthened by combining police forces, OM, DJI, probation and youth work into a multidisciplinary monitoring team, an idea that comes from probation. That team can then examine which small criminals would make sense to apply intensive probation surveillance at an early stage in order to prevent them from becoming hardened criminals. I'd like a reaction to that. When you talk about prevention, of course you should also talk about the district cop, our eyes and ears in the neighborhoods. Today it is no longer in the neighborhood, because he is too busy with emergency aid. The Minister doesn't have to take that from me, as his own Justice and Security Inspectorate wrote in September 2020: agents barely have time to contact citizens and businesses in their area. As far as the SP is concerned, the agent in the district must finally be able to do his job back to normal and, of course, we mean the agents in the countryside, because the offices in the outskirts are completely cut off. We also need to talk about this when we talk about tackling organised crime, because otherwise this approach is simply not complete. I'd like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Then I come to the proposed heavier penalties. The cabinet wants to increase the maximum penalty for threat and add a new penalty-aggravating ground, namely a threat to a driver, to criminal law. Article 285 states that the penalty increase applies if there is a threat against, among others, ministers, mayors, judges and lawyers. But can the Minister clarify why, for example, this article does not include aid workers as agents? And why are officials or journalists who are threatened not included? Indeed, a number of amendments have already been tabled on this subject. That is why the question to the Minister is: why did he choose this scope and what would he propose to do against the proposals of my colleagues? I understand them very well for reasons of substance, but I am also curious to see what has prevented the Minister from not including them in his proposal. The Minister hopes that these measures will stabilise or reduce the number of threats. I hope so too, of course, but what exactly is this hope or expectation based on? Would the Minister clarify that? I am particularly asking for this because the Minister states that he does not intend to intensify the investigation or prosecution. I wonder: if the chance of getting caught doesn't go up, what will it matter to a criminal if he risks a maximum of two or three years in prison for threatening another citizen? I mean by that: if someone is already so hardened or perhaps insane to threaten a mayor or a judge, will they be deterred by a slightly higher sentence? If we really want to scare off criminals, I think we should do something about it. Does the Minister agree with me? And what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to ensure that benefactors are caught in the collar earlier and more often and will be brought to justice? Is the capacity of the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary increased proportionally and, if not, why not? In fact, I have the same question about the proposal to criminalise the illegal residence of goods in a private place situated in a port or airport for the distribution, storage and transhipment of goods. This too is understandable, but the Minister does not say here that there will be additional capacity to control airports, seaports and rail sites more. So here too the question of whether the Minister can respond to this. Let us now turn to the precursors, i.e. the substances used in the illicit manufacture of drugs. The Minister wants the import, export and possession of precursors to be punished more severely. That's understandable. The SP, together with the PVV in the past, has also called for more attention to be paid to banning precursors. We have said: make a safety net provision. But they didn't choose it. The Minister only comes up with a proposal for a rapid ban on chemicals, which are new and have no legal application. But the problem is that some substances that are needed for new designer drugs do indeed have a legal application. And that doesn't really change this proposal. Does the Minister see this problem and how does he deal with it? Wouldn't the safety net clause, which the SP and PVV have repeatedly proposed, have been a better solution? In other words, an additional criminal ban on non-registered substances, which, in view of the specific facts and circumstances under which they were found, can reasonably be assumed to be intended for no other purpose than the illicit production of drugs. That's how we've dealt with it in the arms legislation. Let me give you an example. If a detective on his clogs, or rather on his boots, senses that all those vaporizing barrels in a warehouse are not meant to unclog sinks, then he can't do much right now. That is a bit the situation in practice, which led us to propose that safety net provision. I regret that it was not chosen, because I really think that would have been a better idea. However, how will the detour proposed by the government, which is different from our proposal, be monitored? It is expected that the prohibition of precursors in forensic detection will lead to a wider range of substances to be identified after seizure whether or not it is a prohibited drug precursor. The Minister then says that the police will receive extra money for that analysis, but that is a one-off sum. What does the police really need in the long term, because it is structural costs that the police have to bear for this? Can the Minister clarify that, more work but not more money for the police? Or, for example, the NFI: that's where the work is already running over the shoes and they can't handle all kinds of things. If that's wise, I'll ask the Minister. Then there is the financial aspect of crime. I think it is a sensible proposal that better consideration should be given to the ability of a convicted person to enforce sanctions and measures, so that fines, compensation measures or confiscations can also be effectively implemented. But I have serious doubts about the proposal to recover the costs of undoing the consequences of criminal acts on the environment and public health from the offender. This is about, for example, illegally stored fireworks that have to be destroyed, or drug waste that has been dumped and disposed of somewhere. Although the latter is not covered by this scheme. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that municipalities themselves should continue to pay for this and that there is still no structural money for this from the national government? But the Minister also saw the amendment. That measure cost story is actually a very fundamental point and the question is whether this does not mean asking for its own contribution to the criminal proceedings. This discussion of principle has taken place before. That own contribution has rightly been abandoned. After all, it is the government that takes care of the costs of the criminal proceedings and that also applies to the implementation of measures and penalties. The main point is that the SP believes that criminal profits should be taken away, because crime should not pay. But this isn't about rich criminals whose crime money is being taken away. This concerns all people whose fireworks, if any, are taken away from weapons or drugs, for example, and must be destroyed. Those aren't necessarily the most wealthy criminals. Not often, I guess. The lawyer calls this proposal a trend break. Is that how the Minister sees it? Doesn't it deserve a fundamental rethink of whether or not to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u18	The Minister is already responding from Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u19	I hear it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u20	He's already started his first term. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u21	I understand some of Mr Van Nispen's concerns about this point. He writes in his amendment, and he repeats that it is the government that takes care of the costs of the criminal proceedings and that the same applies to the implementation of measures and penalties. I understand that, and I think that is a fundamental question, but that is not this proposal, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u22	That is how I understood the proposal, but if Mr Sneller can convince me that I am totally wrong, then I am very curious about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u23	Well, "totally wrong"... In my lecture, it is rather the story of the cost of restoring the situation as it was before the crime. It is not the payment for the measure imposed or the penalty imposed, nor is it the payment for the costs of the criminal proceedings. Because I wouldn't want to go on that road either. In my opinion, that cost story is only about getting it back to its original state, as it were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yes, the restoration of the original condition, I see that point. However, I think that is very close to paying for the costs of the criminal proceedings. Of course, the execution phase is also part of that. If you let someone take the fall for the cost of seizure and destruction, then I can imagine anything we're furious with here with people who have fireworks or weapons or drugs or whatever. But that anger doesn't necessarily have to lead to a proposal to charge someone for those costs. That is a fundamental discussion. What I think is that it's justified to take criminal profits from someone. I always suggest that I have done so in recent years and I will continue to do so in order to exploit criminal profits to the last penny. Crime can't pay off. But apart from the principled aspect, I fear that this proposal does not affect the rich boys, but sometimes also those who have been forced into a certain situation or who did not have the mental capacity to think carefully about what they were doing. Sometimes we get them into even deeper trouble. And I think that this proposal may also cost more money than it brings. It doesn't do much with the justice that I think we're looking for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u25	Those are two other points, which I understand separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u26	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u27	But that's not this point. If I do not support this amendment, it does not mean that I do not share the fact that someone is not allowed to contribute to the implementation of the measure or punishment. But it's a fundamental difference for me. You pay your own contribution to prison, or you have to pay for destroying that illegal fireworks that are still there because of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u28	I can see that there's a difference. I just think that's an extension of each other. The fact that the government is now saying: the cost of the criminal trial, of the entire investigation phase, of being in prison, but then also of destroying certain objects, is an extension for me. Again... I see all kinds of colleagues jumping up, so I am very curious about the questions. So it's not my concern that someone who's done something wrong shouldn't have to be on the blisters. Right, but I think you should do that by taking crime money. That feels like justice to me. That does not necessarily require some kind of extra punishment from a, I think, kind of toughness of: look at us doing society a favor. 'Cause I don't think there's any question of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u29	I hear Mr Van Nispen say that it is often small boys who are, in fact, even worse hit than they might have been in life. But what does he think of the Minister's proposal taken over from the Council of State, which correctly says: relate the capacity to enforce this sentence? It is therefore not the case that someone without money will actually bear all these costs, but it will have a deterrent effect, because the State, as I read, has lost 5.8 million per year for the roll-up of hemp farms alone. How does Mr Van Nispen assess the Minister's commitment to applying this measure on the basis of capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u30	That is, of course, an important aspect, and it is a justified nuance that Mrs Michon brings here. In the end, I think it's up to the judge to deliver customization. This includes carrying capacity, although we know that the principle of standing in accordance with Article 24 criminal law is applied very differently in practice. So it is far from being the way we would like it to be. That's a fact, too. However, that is indeed a debate which we will be happy to have next week in the debate on criminal law. That's a nuance. Yeah, it's customization for the judge. It'd be totally bad if it wasn't, but that doesn't make me think it's a good proposal. Whether or not it has a deterrent effect remains to be seen. I do not know of many studies in which science has shown that these kinds of proposals really act as a deterrent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u31	I cannot quite follow Mr Van Nispen, because it almost seems as if it is pathetic for those who, for example, have started a hemp farm that they have to pay the costs if it is destroyed. But on the other hand, society does pay for that. So the society of people who work hard for their money and abide by the law has to pay for the criminal behavior of someone who gets caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm sorry, but this doesn't do me much good. I am seriously trying to explain here that, in my view, this is a principle, that according to the lawyer, this is a trend break, that I do not feel any pity for people who go wrong. In fact, I have suggested more than the CDA that people take their crime money to the last penny, for more financial detectives and better cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. Yes, I can also see the objection of this bill that we will not meet the big boys. We can differ on that, but this is the kind of misplaced toughness I was talking about. We are talking about legislation here. I think we should take sensible decisions here, and therefore I have serious reservations as to whether this proposal is well thought out. Then I come to the financial aspect, because both VVD and CDA started to do so. I get that. Yeah, it costs society a lot of money. All crime costs society a lot of money. That's why we have to take the crime money from criminals. However, the introduction of this part of the Minister's proposal alone costs EUR 1.75 million, while the question is still very much as to whether this will be achieved. Then we can all say 'yes, we don't care', but then it costs the taxpayer even more money. It would adorn VVD and CDA to have an eye for that as well. That was actually the question I would have liked to ask in my speech, so that all saves time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u33	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u34	On the other hand, why is this proposed? If we go back to the core, then it must be about justice. That means criminals can't get rich from crime. So they need to be picked and they deserve to be punished. In my view, this proposal not only allows people to be picked up and punished, but also to impose an additional penalty, which is a kind of additional fine, possibly in terms of carrying capacity, if the judiciary succeeds in doing so, because it never has the data to look at it properly, in terms of the costs that the government has had to incur. I do not see the justification for this, so that is why the amendment. If we then increase the possibilities of taking money from criminals or forcing them to pay for cleaning up or destroying prohibited goods, then there is also another side of the matter. That's not because these people are pathetic, but the Association of Dutch Municipalities has drawn attention to this. There are examples of people who, under threat from others, are forced to have a hemp plantation. I know just those examples, also from the lawyer's point of view. The Association of Dutch Municipalities warns about the possible negative consequences of these measures, for example that people cannot pay the costs and get into trouble. Then the financial and behavioural consequences for these perpetrators, such as more social problems and more oppressive behaviour, reach the municipalities. I would ask the Minister, in the event that my amendment does not reach the point, whether there is an eye for it, what financial impact it is likely to have and whether municipalities, which are calling attention to it, will be compensated for it. That was the financial focus of this cabinet. I have already said what financial emphasis I would like to place, namely more financial detectives and more cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. I already know why that hasn't worked out so far. That is mainly because there are insufficient financial detectives. I come to my final point, Mr President. The criminal justice chain has been cut for years, and we are now reaping the bitter fruits of it. Just to get back to operational strength, the police need an extra 600 million. So we are not talking about additional tasks, but simply about being able to carry out the normal tasks properly. And then we haven't even talked about the D.A.'s office yet. If more criminals come into the picture and are caught, then link it to local justice that is fast, visible and effective for society. Can the Minister reflect on this in detail again? Why is so little done on all these points, not even with this proposal, and why is all this being pushed forward to a new cabinet? The problems are now there and the basis for investing in the criminal justice chain is also now, if I have looked at all the electoral programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Sneller from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. I was pretty quick to scrape. Do you know that expression: mopping with the tap open? That's the case. The floor stays wet and the water rises above your ankles. Then it is not illogical to look for new mops and also to keep unplugging the drain well well, but it might be more effective to take a look at that crane as well. I had to think about that image when I was studying the pieces of the bill we're discussing tonight. It is clear that the illegal drug circuit is causing major problems: murders, violence, extortion, black money, environmental damage and health damage. Anyway, the endless misery is known. But what are the symptoms and what are the causes? Have the Single Convention and the war on drugs worked or are the consequences of the approach worse than those of the drugs themselves? Has this approach not also aggravated the damage caused by these drugs, in health damage, in human lives and in euros? The General Court concluded in its investigation of the State-wide Operation Understanding on Quality of Evaluation Policy last month: "The question of whether policy in its current form should be continued or revised is hardly ever asked and answered." This is problematic, as is the case in drug policy. Because much more explicitly, we should ask ourselves whether it is not time for a more realistic drug policy and that we recognise that the dominant-repressive approach is a wholesome path and that a different approach is needed to tackle and reduce the health damage of drugs, without stigmatisation and with more regulation, information and assistance. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to look more seriously at the crane, because I think it is open wide. In the rest of my speech, I will look at the additional resources and assistance he is asking for in the legislative proposal to tackle the soaking wet floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller spoke about the war on drugs. It has never been strong in the Netherlands, because we have a cumbersome system. We've still regulated business, we still allow the coffeeshops. I believe that this is something that has led to much more drug crime. So if Mr Sneller is talking about the war on drugs, we should really get started on it. Then we must take that side too, otherwise Mr Sneller's comparison will not be correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u38	That may still be in Mrs Kuik's own term, but is she going to tell me when we have tolerated hard drugs here and have allowed them all to thrive because of a regulated approach, as she calls it? At least I wasn't born by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u39	D66 keeps saying it all has to be possible. That group does the same in the Committee on Health. By saying that, we normalize drugs and lower thresholds for young people to go around with drugs, because "it is also normal to start using." That is very bad, and I believe that we need to tackle this side very hard in order to be able to deal effectively with the criminals and the networks. Otherwise, the policy is ambiguous, including for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u40	There is no question of ambiguity. Mrs Kuik's failure to regulate this kind of thing makes prevention and information impossible. In my view, prevention and information could prevent a great deal of damage to health, especially for those vulnerable young people. In my view, that is the difference in principle. And let us at least regulate weed cultivation properly, and indeed do not opt for that half-hearted policy of today, whereby the criminal circuit is completely inundated at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u41	It's becoming a slightly different discussion. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u42	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u43	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's why I'd like to go back to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u44	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u45	I believe that many of the measures we are taking here are serious crime, where money is actually being made from hard drugs, with the import of, for example, cocaine, synthetic drugs. It makes criminals very rich. So far, I have always understood that D66, except for a few pills, would like to legalize soft drugs. But does Mr Sneller really mean that he would also want to legalize the things that make heavy criminals rich now? Would that, in his view, be a real alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u46	Firstly, I see a number of elements in the legislative proposal that are indeed about growing pot. It is not for nothing that Mr Van Nispen has just referred to this. Contrary to what Mrs Bikker says, it makes a lot of money. And there's a lot of crime there, too. So I don't see that this bill wouldn't be about those gross criminals who also make their money in pot growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u47	At least I'll hear that D66 still makes a distinction. Hard drugs are drugs that you have to tackle, because their effects on health are really very severe. That is a gain for me in this debate. I would also like to ask Mr Sneller the following. The Netherlands is world leader in spreading weed. If we were to change this in the Netherlands, what would that mean, according to Mr Sneller, worldwide? And how could we solve this with his utopian idea, assuming that if we release it here, they're not gonna ask us for anything in the rest of Europe, and there's still no money to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u48	I would not want to deprive Mrs Bikker of her profits in this debate, but what she said before is not quite the case. Because the question is also: what are hard drugs? I still think mushrooms are on the hard drugs list when they don't belong there. That was not the CAM recommendation, et cetera at the time. So let's also continue the discussion of what belongs on which list and whether something is a hard drug. I am also very pleased that Mrs Bikker wants to hang out with me and then regulate it internationally. Indeed, we need more room in the Single Treaty to see if we can do something here. Of course, as Mrs Bikker also knows, there are countries that are beyond us when it comes to regulating pot growing properly. Those are countries that weren't expected when I was born, like the United States. There, of course, it is now better regulated in many states than in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u49	We have a committee debate next week on drugs. I shall then be happy to continue the debate. It is not yet a conversation, because in the United States I see the most harmful consequences for young people. I don't feel like getting into that... Mr Sneller is not yet so rich; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u50	I wasn't going to; I'm budgeting carefully. But in the United States, a bit harder has been tried to feed that war on drugs, and the consequences are more disastrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u52	We will resume this debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u53	You can indeed have the discussion wider or it helps against floods to open the crane, instead of trying to turn off the crane. We'd like to have that discussion at another time. I think that proposals to open the crane as far as possible is a very special approach to water pollution, but that is actually what Mr Sneller...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u54	It is a pity that Mr Van der Staaij...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr Van der Staaij has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u56	The bill says that this criminal approach is even more serious. My question is how Mr Sneller responds to the well-known report on the situation in Amsterdam and to take stock of the situation. That report states that, in fact, the approach to this very serious drug-related crime has been given a relatively low priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u57	About what? Moreover, I am sorry that Mr Van der Staaij has misunderstood the metaphor. I know him as a better listener, but okay. I would like to listen again to Mr Van der Staaij explaining what he means by'relatively little attention'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u58	The report De backder van Amsterdam gave a lot of discussion a few years ago. In fact, it was said that we are way too laconical with the whole criminal approach to what is going on here with this serious, organized drug crime. In other words, for a moment, the idea of making more work of regulation rather than all this repression was, but the signal was precisely that it was also the background to this bill that we did not actually seriously engage in the fight against the serious, organized drug crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u59	I believe that measures need to be taken to tackle serious crime, this undermining. But I think that the final solution, Mr Van der Staaij, has heard that at the beginning of my speech, will be fundamentally another, if you really want to resolve it. That doesn't mean you can't reduce it now while keeping it all illegal. But it is precisely by making the distinction clearer and breaking it up that I think you can tackle the crime that we want to tackle together more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u60	Finally. Isn't it rather the sixties fairy tales than a serious, scientifically based approach when you say that by regulation you can get rid of all organized crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u61	No, I think that the initiatives in Canada and the United States that I mentioned just now also show that this is not the case and that you can indeed create a closed coffeeshop chain that also reduces crime. Then there's the increase in the penalty rate on threat. I will go through it a little faster, Mr President, because some fine concepts have already been explained and proposals have already been made. The maximum sentence goes from two to three years. To be clear: that is all condemnations of threats, regardless of motive or background, so not only when it is related to organised crime. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. I was somewhat surprised, however, to hear the Minister's views on this point, that he writes that punishment is no longer sufficient, whereas neither the prosecutor nor a judge has ever said that it was not sufficient. How does he look at that himself? I fully agree with what the VVD said about journalists and our joint amendment. That saves a lot. Then the precursors. These should prevent cooks from producing their designer drugs in this inventive market. I understand very well that the Minister does not want to wait until there is an urgent procedure at European level, but in the consultation version he himself proposed a general administrative measure as a basis and now he wants a ministerial arrangement to settle this. My question is how much time it will save. Does that outweigh the lack of parliamentary involvement in any AMvB? How quickly does he want to be able to act when he finds a new precursor or a pre-precursor? Especially since the advisory committee he wants to set up has no legal basis, no established decision-making procedure and no evaluation, I think it goes rather far. In any case, I find the assessment clause in this legislation rather lean. In fact, it only looks at the cost story, whereas I do not think that this is in the spirit of the integrated balancing framework that is being applied to its department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u62	Don't look at me so terrified, I say through the chairman. Are you talking about democratic control on that list? Are you saying that for me, the difference between AMvB and ministerial arrangement is important because of our role as Chamber? Or is it about the speed with which these substances are punishable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u63	What I would like to know from the Minister is how quickly he wants to be able to act. Is it a matter of days or weeks? For example, we also had this discussion at the temporary corona law. What kind of emergency is really needed? In this case, there is a committee that has to decide on this. For the Opium Act you have a veil and you have rather crystallized procedures. Here we are going to do something quite new, which is then dealt with through a technical committee as if it were all very simple. That doesn't even have a legal basis. They'll just have to see how they manage that decision-making internally. That's actually how the Minister explains it. So I want to know whether this need for speed outweighs the fact that we are not hearing from it anymore and that this regulation is not being evaluated either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u64	Agreed. Do I understand why you are saying: take the quickest possible way and so that we can hear from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u65	That would be ideal, but I understand perfectly well that these are two conflicting interests. If you put in a front, it'll give you another four weeks of delay. I just want to know if it is really necessary for it to be a ministerial arrangement. Do you really have to do it that fast? In the case of the temporary corona law, for example, we are in some cases convinced by the cabinet that it is really necessary to act very quickly and that we can be less involved as a parliament. In this case, I am not sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u66	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u67	I'm asking this because I can imagine that you'll get a list of those chemicals here. I think that my colleagues in the Chamber are capable of a great deal, but when I see what the explanatory statement is about, I do not feel that we in the Chamber can appreciate these chemicals at all. There are all these abbreviations that I have never heard before. I wonder what the democratic ability to find something of that as a Chamber adds to such a technical point as a list of prohibited substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u68	I understand that very well, but then I would have expected that we would have been given a more substantive argument, such as 'there is a committee and these people are in it', 'the decision-making is so arranged and this is the legal basis', 'if one of the people actually says that there is legal use, then I inform the Chamber' and 'the committee's opinions become public'. Well, there are all kinds of ways of implementing that control without Parliament necessarily being involved. There are, of course, more technical things where we can hear experts and where people do have the opportunity to draw our attention, so that at least there is an additional control step. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the lack of evaluation. In my opinion, there is still a little more to be done on the basis of this law. For example, the Minister says that he does not expect an increase in the use of other drugs, but he does not say how he will then monitor it. He says he's expecting about the same amount of waste, but he doesn't say why he's expecting this and how he's going to monitor it. So I do have some questions about that. Then the breach of the ports. That's what they called it. The Minister writes that it is punishable because it serves to commit serious offences. At the same time, the description of the crime is not subjective. There's no motive in the description of the crime. My question is: is that right, and is it, therefore, illegal residence, regardless of the intention, even if the Minister writes that residence serves a specific purpose? Mr Van Nispen already asked: how often does it happen that someone is staying there, but that it cannot lead to a conviction? Then there's the cost story. I think it is a logical idea in itself that the polluter pays. I do have the same question as Mr Van Nispen said: how do the errand boys, although they sometimes make very good money, relate to the big boys behind them? Does this measure contribute to this, or should we do so in another way? I would like to be assured by the Minister that this is not the sliding scale described by Mr Van Nispen to the criminal trial. If it is indeed aimed at recovery, which is my lecture, then of course the question is why it is aimed only at these crimes. Then why don't you do this with, for example, an art theft, where a very expensive painting also needs to be well preserved back to the original owner, which also means that justice is hunted at a cost? A number of scientists already asked that question in the NJB. The cost is rather high. The costs of society are also high, as Mrs Michon said, but the costs of introduction and structural costs were very high for me. I'd like to hear more about that. How does that weigh up against each other? And what will this measure be evaluated in the near future? That stays in the middle as well. Mr. Chairman. Then the Law Damocles. We're talking about tackling drug crime. A few years ago, the Damocles Act was introduced to close drug houses. There, too, we see as a warning the great consequences that this can have and how unjust that is. A mother is not prosecuted by justice, but by the mayor. She's being evicted with her kids. As a result, she is blacklisted by the housing corporation and can no longer get a home. That while the only blame that hits her is that her ex-husband, without her knowing herself, had left drugs in her house when she delivered her children. There are several municipal ombudsmen who say that this is not an isolated incident and that they see it more often. These days in Zeeland it is decided to intensify the use of this law and to do it even harder and even wider. I think it is also important that we, as legislators, take a closer look at whether that is the way we intended it, because at the time it was mainly intended for the extremes. My question to the Minister is whether he recognizes that it has gone a little too far and is not just being used to restore public order. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. D66 will continue to argue for better control of the open crane. But until a majority in this Chamber, which seemed to be far away, is there, I will at least continue to be constructively critical about the most effective mop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u69	That's good. A suit of our hearts, too, that last one. I would like to give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of the JA group21. He also wants more speaking time. What's going on with you guys? I was able to preside all day and finish the previous debate so that you could start a bit earlier, but all the time savings will evaporate again thanks to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u70	You must be able to enjoy us longer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have a very good announcement for you, and not only do you have a speech of your own, but you are also the warm-up act of a maiden speech by Mrs Kathmann, which we are about to listen to. I hadn't reported that yet. After Mrs Kathmann I am going to suspend for a moment, because I saw flowers and group leaders coming in. Then I'm gonna suspend this for a while. Mr. Eerdmans has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u72	The tension is increasing. It will be a nice Rotterdam warm-up for Mrs Kathmann, as we are used to. Minister, Chairman and colleagues. Important subject: undermining. Police, Customs, law, OM, politics, garage companies, catering, contractors, notaries, hairdressers, it's all sectors and branches that have to do with undermining. In other words, how the underworld enters the upper world. So it's very good that we're talking about this huge problem. Pieter Tops calculated it. In 2017, 18 billion euros of criminal money were squandered. At the same time, we believe that this also destroys the foundations of the rule of law that we know. We have now become, like it or not, the epicentre of drug trafficking, hard drug trafficking, crime and the false romance of freedom, joy that used to hang over drug policy in the Netherlands. That romance is way behind us, I think. A murdered lawyer, in hiding mayors, torture containers, we're talking about that now. It is therefore a good thing that this issue has absolute top priority of all of us, especially of justice, not only in words, but also by adding powers and instruments where necessary. Then we go to the concrete proposals, such as increasing the penalty for threats from two to three years. In the meantime, more things have been said about it. We also think that JA21 has a good reasoning behind this, but this selection of professional groups has something arbitrary. Individual civil servants, port workers, farmers or catering entrepreneurs also face threats in practice. They are, I think, a lot more defenseless for drug criminals than a mayor, to name a profession. That is why my group would have preferred to see a further increase in penalties across the board than the three years it has now become. The four years proposed by the VVD, as I read in the written consultation, would have been a better alternative. The hard drugs industry is increasingly adapting to our new rules and is able to react very quickly. It is very good that we should respond to this by banning the transport or possession of chemicals, chemicals, precursors. Certainly it is not a panacea, but all are certainly a step towards shortening the life cycle of new chemicals for designer drugs, as the cabinet states in the memo. We also found SP and PVV to have said useful things about this. We also support the protection of the infrastructure vulnerable to undermining, such as ports, airports, railway emplacements and so on. Mr. Chairman. It is all a drop in the ocean, if we are honest, given the huge scale of this problem, especially drug smuggling. Take the Rotterdam harbour alone, where it is no longer necessary to climb illegally over fences. An investigation by Customs itself, for two and a half months, shows that people could move freely on the port site. So it comes not only from outside but also from inside. The question is what is the use of a bill against intruders when criminals can easily get onto the premises legally. How's the secretary gonna act on this? I'd like a response. The Zeehaven Police also found that criminals migrated to Antwerp during the period during which that control took place. That is, of course, a good thing. Then it makes sense, if you tighten things up at that point. Then we might be able to use more permanent controls. We are considering tabling a motion on this subject, but first we would like a response from the Minister on permanent controls. Then there's the cost story. A useful measure, we think. You see those synthetic drug labs in Brabant and Limburg. We read that the costs of dumping drug waste, which mostly affects the southern provinces, are not covered by this measure. Why not? I'll ask the Minister. In the report of the written consultation, I read that the Minister considers it sufficient that municipalities and individuals can work on this through the civil courts or the administrative courts. But why not go through the state detectives, I wondered. Why not give the D.A. the power to recover those costs themselves? Why give municipalities money to clean up the drug waste, but not use the legal opportunity to recover the costs of police and prosecutors on these perpetrators? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. I come within the desired five-minute time limit, but I'm not there yet; this is a cliffhanger. JA21 is a strong supporter of picking convicts. In addition to punishment, we also consider the balding of criminals who put that money in their pockets to be very good. But then I would like to draw attention to two issues. We all know that criminals, especially drug criminals, are guided by the desire for materialism. That means you can hit them very hard by depriving them of that ability. But also by appearances. Of course, we often see this in our city of Rotterdam. People without jobs but with youth pimples, we always say, who drive a giant car, a BMW of one and a half tons. We think they have some explaining to do. These are the so-called vigor actions, known from the big city, popularly called "pater controls." Can we not intensify it, I ask the Minister. Wouldn't that be very good? Roll out those actions all over the country. Just show me why you're driving a car like that, where you get that money, the reverse evidence. Then it is very often called against that it is ethnic profiling, but that has nothing to do with it. These actions, such as those taking place in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, are about appearances. I know that the Minister has a good eye for the city of Rotterdam and also for Amsterdam, so he will certainly have an opinion on it. What do you think of that? Finally, money laundering, also something that we must strongly oppose. By now we know that the shopping streets, even in the big cities, are not only shopping streets, but unfortunately in practice also money laundering streets. These are unsavory streets with a lot of call shops, money exchange offices, shishalounges, hairdressing shops without chairs, in short: things that don't add up, people with very dark business and weird business operations. We want to do something about that, because we cannot accept that these criminal corporations dominate our streets. We have also seen many actions against this; national actions of the Public Prosecutor, the Tax Office, the Labour Inspectorate, the Chamber of Commerce, everything is connected with it. I saw that again in Amsterdam. Is the Minister prepared to step up such actions nationwide, to do so much more often and to dismantle the money-laundering streets? Is he prepared to step up this sector-by-sector? I have a motion for this in my back pocket. The question is how the Minister looks at this, otherwise I would very much like to hear the opinion of the Chamber. Mr President, I will conclude. I'll have a drink of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u73	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u74	You're coming with me so easily. I'll talk about it for a while. No, I am really finishing, because it is also your time and I do not want to stop all Mrs Kathmann's congratulations. Finally, in the fight against undermining crime, the measures we are discussing are, I think, a modest move. It's gonna take a lot more than that. I think everyone who's here recognizes that. However, this remains a good tightening-up in a number of important areas. JA21 will therefore provide its support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u75	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you. Well, then we are now maneuvering to the provisional parliamentary highlight of this evening. I even hear "of the year" here! Well, I'll leave that on your behalf, but the Minister is very positive about what we're about to get, and that's Mrs Kathmann's maiden speech. We're gonna enjoy that for the next ten minutes. I'll lower the chair for her by way of service. The floor is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yeah, that's a long time, isn't it? That's nice. And no interruptions. Mr President, thank you. I walk through my city a lot, through Rotterdam. That's actually because my bike was stolen a little too often. So it's bitter necessity, but I've really started to love it, because you just see the world much better when you walk. Yesterday I walked home from Central Station. Then you're a little mumbling and pondering, like: what am I supposed to say; I'm allowed to speak for the first time in parliament as a representative of the people. In Rotterdam we have buildings with those beautiful lyrics on them, which can also inspire you. My eye was on a text by Erasmus: "The most important condition for happiness is that you want to be what you are." And then I thought: ai, if anything does not apply to the House of Representatives at the moment, then it is this statement. Because we are in the biggest crisis ever: the climate crisis. We are in a pandemic and we are in very great socio-economic misery, of which young, old, entrepreneur and actor are literally sick, even though they have no corona. In the meantime, here we are, a little bit about what this country once was: social, progressive, frontrunner. But that is the postcard of the Netherlands. That's from the old days. We managed things a little too much instead of running things. We have lost our social, progressive and free face. And that also makes sense, because we have really failed to invest in people. As a result, a quarter of our 15-year-olds now have so little control over the language that they can't actually participate in the basics. Our country is unsafe, because although we are full of security, we leave it to invest in agents. We live in a country where finding an affordable house is like winning the lottery. And do you remember, the first gay marriage, the Delta Works, the welfare state? The whole world was watching. We were the example. At the moment, society really craves more of that. Where we have to start, it seems difficult to determine, but it is not, because that is when listening and, above all, when using the knowledge in society and, above all, when building up. That's incredibly important. And then: investing, but really investing, in the cork that drives society. So don't clap for care workers, for police people or for people who work hard in education. It's okay, because it's fine, but provide more colleagues, provide that higher salary. My sons are desperate for solutions, too. They walk with me a lot. 'Cause, yeah, what are you gonna do with a mom without a bike? Go! Then you'll have to take a walk, too. They're gonna get a lot out of that. At least they notice a lot. My youngest son's name is Kes. He's 9 years old. We live in Spangen, Rotterdam-West. He had to make a powerpoint presentation about his neighborhood. I was a little freaked out. The scope was as follows. "We live in a strange neighborhood. Our neighborhood is always dirty. There's a lot of weird people out there screaming weird things, grabbed in trash cans looking for food. And if I go outside and play, I'm either getting yelled at or fireworks are thrown at me." When I read that, of course, I thought of moving. Your mother's heart is breaking. I would like to make a small correction: Kes is really not able to pull out of that neighborhood with seven tractor horses, and neither am I. But more importantly, Kes is convinced that his mother here is going to do something to improve that neighborhood. Because his mother taught him that change begins here, that any proposal made in the House of Representatives can be an improvement of the Netherlands or of the neighborhood in which Kes lives. Until three months ago I was alderman in Rotterdam. Very often I get the question: what the hell inspired you to leave that post, to become a popular representative in The Hague at this time? The answer is this: as an alderman, but also as a city council member in Rotterdam and as a foundation of Stichting Jarige Job, I learned very well that politics can make people's lives, but can also really break. I want to make them. At the moment a lot of Dutch people are broken. And as alderman, I didn't have any tools to help with that repair, because often my entire toolbox was actually cut out from The Hague. That's why I wanted to go to The Hague. That's why I wanted to come here, to put those toolboxes back together with you, so that from our neighborhoods, from our villages and neighborhoods, we can repair the country, and maybe make it more beautiful and, as Erasmus says, we can create those conditions for happiness, so that we are again that country that we want to be. And dear Maas, Tijn and Kes, dear boys, our neighborhood needs to be repaired, too, right there in Spangen. But so do many people who live in Eindhoven, and people in Heerlen-Noord, Leeuwarden and Schiedam. Because it's really not normal, guys, that the street of your school was dropped off twice: once by an explosive, once by a shooting. And that mommy had to call because Grandma walked you home from school at 4:00 in the afternoon, and then someone just got shot in the head on that route. A criminal reckoning. It's not normal for a toddler to take a stray bullet in Amsterdam-Zuidoost. It's just not normal. And what's not normal at all is that feeling safe in this country has also become a privilege, like a lot of basic things, for those who have it right. Indeed, I say it out loud: even security is unevenly divided in the country. And where there's inequality, at least you'll find me on your route. So it is very good that we are talking today about the criminal approach to undermining. That's a start, but we're definitely gonna talk about how we're sweeping undermining crime out of our neighborhoods and neighborhoods. But then we'll have to start at the most unsafe neighborhoods. Because without security, no freedom. And everyone's entitled to that regardless of your zip code. Three things are at the top of the PvdA when we talk about undermining: that is to protect the rule of law, that is to break that model of organised crime, but that is also to offer perspective to anyone who is attracted to organised crime. We are therefore very pleased that the government is coming forward with additional legislation today. And we also support the government in that, but I do have a number of questions, and I can keep them brief, because I think most of them have already been asked. As other colleagues have said, but perhaps not entirely on its Rotterdams: from our people, you don't touch them. And there is now a very nice series, that at least we are going to punish more seriously the threat of politicians, directors and groomers. But it has been asked before, also by Mr Van Nispen: why this series? Why not expand, as proposed by the VVD, with journalists, but also with civil servants, for example? I remember when I was an alderman: we have district janitors, district managers, and also those who deal with threats. Why aren't they in that series? So I would actually like to hear from the Minister a support from those directors, toga carriers and politicians, who are now explicitly mentioned. Then there's the measure and the cost story. I think that Mr Van Nispen, as well as my colleague from D66, have already said enough about this. But I am curious as a Member of Parliament, because we are talking a lot about the cost of how that system works. And the PvdA also finds: the polluter pays; crime should not pay. But there is also a risk in these social costs, whether they will work. I read that we are actually going to evaluate this after five years, so I am very curious to see if we can simply bring forward that evaluation so that we can also look at the effectiveness of this law earlier. And then there is my last question, which is actually a question that my colleagues Kicken and Moorlag have asked before. What's it about? We know, because the district attorney has called on the bell about that, that there is increased pressure on fishermen to smuggle goods. Just as well said: the majority of fishermen have nothing to do with crime at all, but the signs are that some people are being lured to smuggle cocaine, for example. There was then the question of whether the Minister might see something in making a Bibob test possible for applicants for fishing licences. At that time, it seemed that the Minister was simply going to do so quickly, but there has never been any news of that. So the question is, when is that going to happen? Otherwise we may consider a motion, but it is always good to wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u79	The latter is always good. Thank you very much. A beautiful maiden speech, as a maiden speech should be, with a bit of passion as well. No, you mustn't run away. You must stay here. Yes, you may stand here; I had that in mind for you. Spanging can be proud of you tonight! I'm just gonna suspend for a second. I'm the first to congratulate you, and that's a great honor for me. You're facing a golden future, and I hope you'll have a lot of fun, because we shouldn't be working too hard. Congratulations, and perhaps there are others who would like to congratulate you. I'm suspending the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u80	The minister has also regained his emotions. That's always nice. Then we will listen to Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr. Chairman. When I first heard Mrs Kathmann, I remembered the words: "They exist! Members of parliament who have inspiration, vision and compassion!" Those were the words Mrs Kathmann used on Twitter in the maiden speech of a political group member of hers! But often these compliments also show what values you think are important. That goes all the way here, because the inspiration, vision and compassion are pretty good. Compliments, again. Mr. Chairman. Then to tonight's topic. I had another look at some newspaper reports of recent times: "Cokemafia strikes for the fourteenth time," "Gelder's fruit region has been under the spell of attacks for months after finding a package of cocaine between the fruits," "Woman killed in liquidation on the street in Amstelveen." Those are just a few headlines from the past period showing the reality of the subject we are discussing tonight. This is not just a subject for certain neighbourhoods that only police and other investigative officers have to deal with. No, we see that the underworld is increasingly moving to the street, where you and I think we can move safely. More grip, more targeted fight against undermining crime is needed. Against this background, the SGP Group welcomes this bill, not as the panacea against all the ailments in this area, but as part of a toolbox of many laws and measures to tackle this phenomenon of organised crime further. Mr. Chairman. They are, as it turned out tonight, different parts that come together in this bill. I have a number of specific questions about this, first of all on the fight against raw materials. That is what these precursors are really about for the illicit manufacture of hard drugs. With regard to detection and control, we think it is a positive development that the government has introduced a ban on the import and export of these raw materials in the legislative proposal. Only, the point was just made by Mr Van Nispen, I thought, who asked if you were quite there with that. Because it is about raw materials that are illegal in any case, but when it comes to the sink remover that is legal, and if it is being resorted to, then this tightening up of criminal law is still of no use. Isn't the risk that the underworld will also look at the loopholes in the laws if you have a tightening-up at this point, is also being looked at and the legal raw materials that you can also use to make drugs? So isn't there a need for that broader safety net clause? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the measure of punishment for threat. The effective and integrity of mayors, toga carriers and other persons held with authority is essential for the proper functioning of public administration. So the penalty increase for these people is fine. But we were wondering: doesn't this also apply to aid workers, such as cops and detectives? Does this not also affect public authority and democratic rule of law? We have the amendment in respect of item No. 10 to add police and extraordinary investigative officers. Mr. Chairman. The third part is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u82	Sorry, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u83	It's a short question. The Minister must, of course, respond perfectly to this, but I also raised the question of how we see this definition. The Minister has made a certain proposal for mayors, lawyers, etc. Journalists are added from the Chamber. Police officers and boas are added. I think all this is understandable and I am looking forward to the answer. But what do we think of municipal officials, for example, to give an example? Where in Mr Van der Staaij's view could or should this demarcation end? Does he have any idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u84	That's a fair question. I also checked whether there is any legal systematic logic for how you define that circle exactly, and I found that rather difficult. For example, if you look at insult, it is very broad: public authority. You also have the obstruction of aid workers. That's another legal term, with a certain range. So I have not found a very clear answer to that for myself either. So you cannot say from a legal systematic point of view: it must be so and not otherwise. So my honest answer is that there's something random in it. But from the point of view of public authority and the democratic rule of law, we were sure that those who are very intensely involved in it and who are, or may be, visible should also be included in the scope. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of the obligation to pay the cost of destroying seized drugs and illegal fireworks. That's a legitimate part of it, too. We believe that injustice should not pay off. Those who commit crimes, criminals, must bear the costs they incur, including indirectly. Also support for that part of the bill. I've been more focused: what kind of problems do I have to deal with? I also hear, for example, about problems of dumping drug waste in natural areas or on agricultural land. You can see that there are subsidy schemes, which are also relatively limited in scope, to finance the cost of cleaning up drug dumping. But I also hear from practice that clean-up costs for drug dumping can soon amount to €25,000, while a duped farmer with a corn field in which drug waste has been dumped is summoned to clean up the waste as soon as possible. Can the Minister indicate whether the use of the removal from traffic to recover the costs of destruction could be increased by the cost of disposal of drug waste? Doesn't it make sense to take a good look at that too? What about stories and paying for the disposal of drug waste? Mr. Chairman. From the point of view of practice, I spoke to a green boa, an investigator, who is doing everything possible to keep the nature reserve in which he operates free from undermining crime. Despite its great commitment, this area often has to do with drug dumping in popular places, even in such a forest area. It then stands out that you may hang up a camera for the wild, but that you may not hang up a camera to record drug dumping in popular places. In fact, if you accidentally see it on camera, you can't really use it, because that camera can't be hung for that. That's a complicated story, isn't it? I'd think, if that could just come into the picture that way, why wouldn't you make it possible for that to also serve as evidence? I understand that there is also a lot of bureaucracy attached to these green boas in order to be able to act on the basis of the Opium Act, because they are not really meant for that, although they sometimes have a lot to do with it. That always requires, in addition, the time-consuming deployment of police. I do not know whether the Minister has been keen on this in his preparation for this debate, but I would ask him to look again at these facts and questions and come back to that: are there any gaps that could still be filled in? Mr. Chairman. That was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, of course, to Mrs Kathmann. How beautiful to hear her heart, her Rotterdam heart, speak. I have a grandmother from Rotterdam and I remember how proud she was when we drove through Rotterdam by bus. We came through Spangen and she said: it has changed a bit here, but The Castle is still there. And she looked proud of it. I wish Mrs Kathmann a lot of fun here in The Hague, but I'm sure she always walks through Rotterdam with a happy spirit. I hope we can hang out well together. Then there's the bill, Mr. Chairman. A bit in contrast with Mrs Kathmann's contribution I have here: the Netherlands is beautiful. And I really do. For example, if you look at the landscape, you see wide rivers slowly passing through infinitely lowland. That's just great. This room also speaks of this; it will get used to when we get to B67, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u87	Get your chest wet!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u88	That's right. So we're gonna enjoy it for a while. Those rivers come from the North Sea. There are our ports and that makes us have a good infrastructure, both physically and digitally. Our entrepreneurial spirit, our eye for commercial opportunities, makes the Netherlands, combined with the kind of country it is, a beautiful country. But that infrastructure not only works for tulip bulbs, cheese or high-quality equipment. Unfortunately, it also works for drug trafficking. Add to this trade climate the tolerance to drugs or the low penalty for the most serious drug criminals, and you unfortunately have the ingredients to become a global player in international drug trafficking, which a small country can unfortunately also be big in. It eats away at our society. Because in our vulnerable neighbourhoods, in our environment and in our rule of law, we notice the consequences, with the absolute low point of the murder of a lawyer, Derk Wiersum. And that is precisely why the Christian Union wants to do everything in its power to detect and deal with perpetrators of this serious crime, to do business and to deal with it, so that the Taghis of this world are persecuted and punished for their actions. That is why this law is once again a step in disrupting the undermining, because the Netherlands must become less attractive to serious criminals. These are especially good proposals, which disrupt, disrupt and raise the bar a little higher to get to work in the Netherlands. But they're mostly about actions. The criminals in the proverbial workplace are being dealt with, but does this, in addition to frustrating those acts, also lead to additional cases in which the drug lords are being dealt with and not just the errand boys? That's where my hesitation lies. How do we ensure that the gang's main bosses are also dealt with? I'd like a response from the Minister. And that is why, Mr President, before I go into the various measures of the law, one more measure that I have missed so far. That's the increase in penalties for the really serious drug criminals, the bosses. And no, I do not mean the drug runner or the dealer in the centre of Rotterdam, Amsterdam or anywhere else, but rather the bosses who are coming to the Netherlands from Latin America, for example, because the chances of getting caught and the penalty are low here. The Pact for the Rule of Law also points to this. In June 2019, the Minister announced an investigation. In December 2020, the Minister indicated that the investigation plan would still come to the Chamber. I still miss that idea, and I really miss the outcome and most of all the urgency on this point. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I'll get to the bill myself. First of all, the issue of the threat. I welcome the increase in the penalty rate for threats from two to three years. The examples given by the Minister speak to the imagination. I still have a hesitation. Because, yes, there is a choice for a penalty-aggravating ground for threats to mayors, council members or, for example, lawyers. That's good. But somewhere these threats are also the result of powers in the fight against drugs that mayors and municipalities have been given more and more. This accumulation of powers is not necessarily wrong for the Christian Union in itself, but more and more it puts the mayor in a role that goes beyond the guarding of public order. I ask the Minister: when does he reflect on these relations and on that development? The same is true of the position of boas or other civil servants who are increasingly engaged in the administrative fight against undermining, but are also increasingly moving towards police tasks, including the threat that this poses. At what point does the Minister reflect on these relations and how does he see these developments? Then, Mr President, the fight against precursors. Because that too is positive as far as the Christian Union is concerned: combating precursors for the production of hard drugs. However, we can see here again that it has a most disruptive effect, following developments and then anticipating a ministerial arrangement as soon as possible. We would very much like to ban psychoactive substances more quickly as a group, so we no longer have to deal with 4-MMC, 5-MMC, 2-MMC, or so on. It is very good that the cabinet therefore announces today that 3-MMC will be included in the Opium Act, but I still do not understand why a fundamental legislative change is being delayed. What does the Minister care now to make all these laws and regulations and to refer them to the Chambers? Mr. Chairman. Turning now to the article before us, this only applies to substances which have no known legal purpose. Abuse of nitrous oxide or, for example, sink remover cannot be restricted. Now there is no need to limit sink unhinder in small stock, but if you have the whole shopping cart full, you have a very big problem at home. Can the Minister explain why such products should not, of course under conditions, be covered by this law? And last but not least, I'm gonna be on the machines like stamp machines or pill chips. Mr President, I understand so many things. These are childlikely easy to order on the sites where you can also buy your 3-MMC or your other synthetic drugs. The minister says: we visit companies that do this and explain to them that they are at risk of criminal prosecution. But how many times has there actually been prosecution of companies that clearly trade equipment intended for the trade and distribution of drugs? In my view, the third measure raises a very important point: our ports and transport points. This concerns not only Rotterdam, but also smaller ports, such as those of Vlissingen and Moerdijk and all North Sea ports in Belgium and Germany. Together with shipping companies and security companies and with the transport sector, a broad strengthening of drug trafficking in ports will have to be achieved. Because it stands or falls on people who, under duress or urge, turn a blind eye or actively cooperate. The Zeehaven police in Rotterdam just recently sounded the alarm and said: we have to shut the place down, now it's open. There's an assignment there. I ask the Minister to come up with a broad approach with our southern and eastern neighbours, with the large and small ports, from Antwerp to Hamburg, and with the shipping companies, to come up with joint measures to raise the dikes. On the specific article, I have one more question. It is not the primary purpose of the article, but it also sees human trafficking. Now I have the picture we were talking about this morning in the committee debate, that of Vietnamese minors being smuggled to England by container. And I'm thinking about the drama in Essex. Can the Minister exclude that people who are victims of human trafficking or who have fallen into the hands of smugglers of human beings are covered by this sentence and can he rule out the possibility of a threshold being set for them to flee, to ask for help or to report it? Mr. Chairman. Fourthly, the cost story. I understand the Minister's wish, but I agree with Mr Van Nispen's question, particularly because the legal text states that the level of the payment obligation is important. Only if it is of significant importance can the judge-supervisor impose the measure. But what is "significant importance"? When I look at the legal text, I see that word only occurs in the case of punitive sanctions, in the case of the fine. It has been very clearly argued that this article of law is repairing. Is there the same consideration when it comes to the question of what that is of considerable interest to the court? Or is it another one? I'd like to hear the Minister on that. I'll come to a conclusion. The police are positive about this law. This is an important signal, but the police also indicate that these measures will cost additional capacity. Is there an additional capacity, not only in the port of Rotterdam, but also in surrounding municipalities or smaller port municipalities, for example? If not, what is at the expense of this? Finally. An amendment has been tabled that is a little strange about the bill. It's about doxing. That's what we care about. Because publishing addresses of people who are committed to an important public cause is a poisoning of the social debate and of society. At the same time, criminalising such a thing involves a debate here in the Chamber, with preparation and consultation. That's how we go through the Chambers. That is why I have doubts about this amendment, but I would particularly like to ask the Minister to deal with the text of the amendment in detail. I mean above all: on the scope. There's something in it about purpose. I wonder what that means and whether it is enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Kuik from the group of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I must of course congratulate my colleague Kathmann on her maiden speech, on an interesting and large subject. I myself had my maiden speech about invasive exotic vectors; mosquitoes. Now we're talking about precursors. So congratulations. I look forward to working together. Mr. Chairman. The bill we're discussing is part of an approach to undermining crime that just came on steam. The need for this approach is great. We see that good people who make fair money and who abide by the law are terrorized by criminals who, through nothing and no one to respect, make a lot of money, live a luxurious life and can buy with money or with intimidation power. I am thinking, for example, of farmers who are threatened if they do not allow plantations and the dangers of drug labs in residential areas. And Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned the fierce example of the journalist Mick van Wely: the umpteenth attack on employees of a fruit company in Hedel. There houses are shot at and set on fire to sow fear. So we are not talking about incidents here, but about a structural problem of undermining in the Netherlands. It is our duty to tackle this mafia effectively, for a fair and just rule of law, for our society and for the good guys. This requires a delta plan undermining with a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to organised drug crime in our country. This should involve all relevant parties, from police to banks and from municipalities to businesses, in a joint multi-annual approach focusing on repression and prevention. In recent years there has been investment in detection and steps have been taken in terms of instruments. Addressing organised crime requires a long-term and stable government policy. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is a good example of the continuing strengthening of legislation in this area. I do have some specific questions about this. Mr. Chairman. In order to tackle the underworld effectively, it is good to look at both the cause of this form of crime and its consequences. The bill does something about both. And the uncomfortable truth is, of course, that our country has become a hub of the international drug trade, something that is made up of money. So the cause is quite simple. That's money. The CDA therefore believes that it is important that criminal assets are visibly taken away and that the possibilities for detachable assets and assets are increased. And that is what this legislation is helping to do. Society is now paying for the costs. Mrs Michon also mentioned it: cleaning up hemp farms cost society 5.8 million in 2018! So it is important that we take that money away and use it for what it costs society. It also makes it easier to turn the picture around to young people, because the risk is now that young people are being seduced by criminals and given the idea: why should I actually do honest work as courses or a newspaper district like me with the circulation of drugs directly those new sneakers and perhaps get more? We see that the standardisation of drugs also lowers that threshold. How do we prevent our young people from falling into a trap there? So I am really thinking of the preventive side: combating the standardisation of drugs and using it to identify and prevent the recruitment of young people by criminals. The huge profits that drug trafficking can make are leading people to the wrong path, with the values and standards no longer being those of the rule of law but those of the Mafia. The money earned in the underworld seeks a way to the upper world and threats are often part of the business model. We see that mayors, counselors, lawyers and judges are threatened, especially when they arrive at the criminal's earning model. The CDA therefore fully supports the increase in penalties on this point. It is unacceptable that people who carry out their duties in order to protect the rule of law should be threatened. It is an undermining and an attack, not only on the minister but on the whole society. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Nispen's question: why was this group chosen as an exception? Couldn't that group be wider? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Then there is the part of the bill that deals with the so-called precursors, chemicals used to make drugs. In the cat-and-mouse game that is the detection of synthetic drug trafficking, flexible laws and regulations are of great importance. So, of course, we are very pleased with this bill. However, in order to make the net final, it is important that we also introduce the same flexibility in legislation on designer drugs. So it is very good that we are now banning this relatively new drug 3-MMC, but that is what the CDA wants to see more widely in the legislation. We must also tackle these new psychoactive substances in order to prevent us from following the facts every time, because the criminals have just made the composition of a pill something else. I am also thinking of nitrous oxide, something that has gone completely out of control and which I mentioned in a committee of VWS with Secretary of State Blokhuis in 2019. He kept coming back and saying, "Yeah, we're working on it." And then I read in a letter from the Secretary of State and the Minister that the bill was postponed at the end of March. In the meantime, this bad business is rampant. Also today: a Zwollenaar arrested with 78 bottles of nitrous oxide in his car. Because of this shit, which seems low-threshold and innocent, young people suffer neurological damage. Why does the bill lead to such additional efforts on the part of the enforcement partners that it is not desirable to introduce it, whereas the bill we are discussing today does not do so? I can't explain that. Let's talk about the precursors and the punishment. So that's the stuff that criminals produce for making drugs. I see that preparatory actions as referred to in Article 10a of the Opium Act have a lower maximum sentence than the production of drugs. I do not think that is logical or desirable. The social damage in the production of precursors is no less. In addition, the intent of the drug criminal in preparatory actions is the same as in the actual production of drugs. In fact, therefore, there is no difference between the production of precursors and the production of drugs. Then I would say: let us move on to clear legislation. Mr. Chairman. I had already prepared an amendment, but then I was told by a lawyer that this does not fit in with the legal system. That may sound a bit formalistic to my ears, but I also think it is important that we deal with careful legislation here. So I fear that this is something of the longer breath, but I would ask the Minister what is needed to see how we can put that legal technique more into the service of more unambiguous legislation when it comes to the measure of punishment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the prevention of the misuse of infrastructure objects. Against organised crime, an organised government is of great importance with private parties. In this case, I would like to focus on the port of Rotterdam. In addition to the problems of Customs, which is of a different order, there is also an enormous number of public and private organisations working in the port of Rotterdam. The list of consultations is huge. I ask the Minister what efforts are being made to better connect language and worlds and thus to speed up the fight against undermining. To what extent can data be shared between public and private organisations? After all, the Minister must agree with me that this is crucial in the fight against organised crime. (NL) Mr President, finally, the part of the bill that should be more harsh on intruders. Preventing "abuse of vulnerable infrastructure objects," as the bill calls it, introduces a new criminalisation. My question to the Minister is what this will do with the chance of intruders. A fine sentence is of course important, but criminals are also, of course, deterred by a high chance of getting caught. What are the chances of intruders and what is the Minister going to do to increase them? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u91	Fine. Thank you. We are now going to listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom Group. I think the Minister can answer immediately afterwards. Right? I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA. Good luck here in the Lower House. Mrs Kathmann spoke today about Rotterdam. In my opinion, an Erasmus University study from Rotterdam says that 40% of young people have reported that they have used more drugs this year than the year before. That seems to me to be a good bridge to the debate, which I am doing today on behalf of the PVV instead of Lilian Helder. Mr. Chairman. I remember it very well. Four years ago, when the CDA returned to the Ministry of Justice and Security, the great Grapperhaus, Minister Grapperhaus, was pushed forward with drum roll. The so-called undermining would be dealt with very hard. What exactly is undermining, by the way, no one knows. It's not an independent crime. It's not in the Criminal Code. It is part of the Hague trickbox, introducing a difficult, multi-interpretable concept so that it can be disguised what a mess of successful VVD and CDA ministers have made of the tough fight against crime. But the gentlemen and ladies rulers mean by that difficult word to say that the underworld and the upperworld are intertwined. They mean to say that the underworld in the Netherlands now has its own prisons, which has just been said, including torture containers. They mean to say that lawyers who act for witnesses against the mafia can be shot to death and that misdemeanours of innocent men and women are being committed in the Netherlands of the CDA and the VVD. Tant piss. Too bad. It's part of the game. They mean to say that coke and pills are easier to obtain anywhere in the Netherlands than, for example, a corona prick. They mean to say that the mob gangs are as powerful as they are rich by now. And they're hugely rich. They mean to say that the tough criminals have so much firepower that they have the power of an army. The Dutch drug policy is a celebration for the average drug dealer and drug user of the Netherlands. The Minister of Justice and Security is the master of that party. I would therefore not be surprised if Minister Grapperhaus was appointed honorary member of every motorcycle gang in the Netherlands. I'm sure he was made Honorary Chairman of the Mocromafia. The penoze raises the glass on him. The weak policy of this cabinet is at the heart of the hard-earned criminal's earning model. Over the past decades, the Netherlands had become the world's champion of drug imports, but in recent years, the Netherlands has also become one of the largest drug exporting countries among several VVD and CDA ministers. We are now champion export, no more cheese or cozy and beautiful Dutch flowers, no, of xtc, speed, MDMA and that sort of thing. Those are our top export products now. The turnover of the speed and xtc trade is greater than the turnover of Philips and Albert Heijn. VVD and CDA Justice Ministers have turned the Netherlands into a country where all possible drugs from countries like Colombia and Mexico enter, a country where relatively more drug labs are built than homes. The Rutte Cabinets have made the drug industry one of the strongest growing sectors. Organised crime, the core of which is drug trafficking, has become completely out of control under this cabinet. Terrorist organisations and therefore terrorist attacks are financed by the drug trafficking that is also running through our country. Our open border policy, which means that everyone can really enter our country and that no one has to go out and go out, has made the Netherlands a true hub of the drug industry. I see Minister Grapperhaus laughing, but of course it's all to cry. What he is saying now is always something the Minister knows very well. The ease with which an average drug criminal now has an international network is phenomenal. Mohammed here in the Netherlands simply calls or apps about the global logistics drug transports with his brother Ahmed in Morocco and his cousin Mahmoud in Spain. The Dutch State, i.e. the taxpayer, finances those networks. The total budget of Justice and Security is about 12.6 billion, but the turnover of the drug industry in the Netherlands is a multiple of these. It's four times the size. The figure just mentioned by Mr Eerdmans is only about synthetic drugs, all those pills and so on. If you add up the cocaine and the cannabis, it's over 40 billion. The question is, what would have happened if we hadn't put a minister in this ministry for four years? Would that have made a difference? Asking the question has already answered it, and the Minister knows it secretly. But even though he knows this, the remedy he proposes to curb the enormous problems of this huge crime is not sufficient. This year, the cabinet intends to make EUR 141 million available for the fight against the criminal underworld. In the following years, this will be EUR 150 million in structural terms. Of course, that is nothing compared to the tens of billions that drug criminals earn and convert. 150 million euros is a joke to them. It's easy for the guys in those criminal gangs to spend on lunch. And what is the Minister coming to the Chamber today? With a feather-light mini-law, a ridiculous little law in the light of the big problem outlined above. This cabinet has lost the game against the underworld and the drug industry. That's not just what we see from the PVV. The police themselves also say this. I quote Jan Struijs, President of the Police Union: "Hard and organized crime has gotten way out of hand. We still do not have enough answers to combat this. I think this is a very worrying development." This bill is a joke for the big drug criminals. It does not change the weak current policy of the Netherlands. You can hear criminals up to Bogota or Bogotá from which country you come to laugh. What's being proposed today? It has already been said, but I will repeat it anyway. It becomes criminal if you stay illegally on and give you access to a private place for distribution located in a port or airport, with, and now it comes, the not at all dissuasive penalty limit of two years. A maximum of two years, and then the judge has to impose it. Of course, those weak judges in the Netherlands never do that. They're always gonna be below that limit. Two years, isn't that something? That doesn't sound like anyone's going back there, does it? You'll just be sitting for a year and a few more months. The penalty for threat goes from a maximum of two to a maximum of three years. Maximum again. Judges don't always or usually don't impose it. It's for crying. Three years for a hell of a threat. Customs officers, authorities, agents and their families are threatened by unscrupulous drug criminals, and the minister comes up with a lick vest. The court may, but that is not at all necessary, order that a convicted sum be reimbursed which has been charged to the State for the destruction of objects which pose a serious threat to the environment or to public health. But what kind of deterrent is this supposed to be? Compare that with the billions that are earned from drug crime and put against it the low chance of getting caught, the low penalties and the small amount they may have to pay back. It's nothing, not terrifying. A new article is inserted which prohibits the import of a chemical designated by AMvB. The intention is to prevent components of these designer drugs prematurely. Nice thinking. However, the amendment of the Opium Act to place the components of designer drugs independently as a substance on the list of prohibited substances is once again awaited and is not part of this bill. It is the PVV that managed to enforce this in 2012 through an adopted motion, but despite the many times rappelling and pressing, this is still not settled almost ten years after that. All these measures are, of course, complete, but absolutely ridiculous when you put them in addition to the plans of the extreme left-wing mayor of Amsterdam. Last week, it announced that it would not raise the number of searches, but would bring them down. And the underworld continues unabated. No one looks crazy when a hand grenade is found. The drug mafia is ruthless and relentless, as it turned out last weekend when an armed drug commando near the Antwerp mayor Bart de Wever was intercepted by the police. What does the Minister have to do? In every neighborhood, a police station has to be set up and there must be at least 10,000 officers to increase the chances of getting caught. The Minister really needs to introduce very severe minimum penalties. So don't give the judges the chance to punish low, but they force them to punish hard and very high with punishments that the drug mafia will cry over and not, like now, laugh at. For extortion of a mayor, you're not going to jail for a maximum of three years, but for at least 30 years. Not 3 years, but 30 years! Lock down ruthless criminals for decades, if not for life. Let a punishment really be a punishment. Terror and retribution must be at the heart of the matter. Stop! I'll ask the Minister. Stop importing more lucky seekers. We already have our hands full with the current mocromafia. And: double-national criminals must be deprived of Dutch nationality in order to be able to expel them from the country. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to the points I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u93	Thank you. That was a good bouncer at the end of the first term. So much for the first term of office. The Minister is asking for a period of reflection until 8.30 p.m., but I think that is a little short. Shall we make it 8:35? Okay, here's the deal. At 8:35 p.m., we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u94	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr President, thank you. Now I wanted to congratulate the person who made her maiden speech, and I also wanted to say something nice to her. But, yes, Mrs Kathmann probably anticipated very different words from me. At least she's not in the room right now. However, should she come back to the Chamber again, I shall briefly interrupt my speech improvisingly, in order to convey those congratulations. Because we're not in life to congratulate an empty chair. Mr. Chairman. It's really nice that we're discussing this bill today. This is about the criminal approach to undermining crime; let that be clear. It is nice to explain to Mr Markuszower that undermining crime is organised crime that mixes with the ordinary world of citizens and neighbourhoods for the purpose of criminal activities. I also use words like this because everyone knows exactly what it's about. I'm about to tell you a little bit more about it. But, Mr President, I see that Mrs Kathmann has just entered the Chamber and I would like to go back to her first. Because, of course, I'm going to put a little perspective on the many congratulations that have come to her. Because, yes, it was a maiden speech, but I barely survived a committee debate this afternoon to which Mrs Kathmann already made a sharp contribution. So she was able to practice her eloquence on me this afternoon, and I was impressed by it. But I would like to emphasise that congratulation, which I am a little more relative on the one hand, on the other hand, because it was an inspired argument. It was an argument about the questions: what do we see around us in society, and what do I want to do to help what I see? I'll tell you as broad as I can. I think, Mr President, that you, the other Members and I are in this Chamber today. I hope, of course, that Mrs Kathmann's son will ultimately give us some satisfaction. We'll have to wait and we'll know later. This also applies, let me say, to the'special judgments' which sometimes happen to us in a week. And it also applies to the legislation we are working on here. It's focused on the future. That is also the future of, I can say very dramatically, our children, and grandchildren in my case. But I can also just say: the future of our neighborhoods. In other words, and now I come back to our citizens and neighborhoods, who are really under a lot of pressure from this undermining crime. For the first time in the last election, I would like to stress the importance of the Members of Parliament who have been elected for the first time: have a look at each other in a few of those neighbourhoods, all over the country. Then you will see that the organized criminals are mainly looking for these places, whether they are in the outer area or in the inner area, and that they are also looking for those people, whether they are citizens or people who have a certain function and are therefore interesting to criminals, so the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods that are vulnerable. That is also one of the elements of undermining. I was thinking: I am still thinking about it, also because of Mr Markuszower's question as to what exactly undermining crime is. Mr. Chairman. One of the elements of undermining is the threat to those working in public administration or who play a key role in the functioning of our rule of law. Threats, for example, try to influence mayors or make their functioning impossible. And ordinary citizens are increasingly confronted with threats in everyday life. Society as a whole is also increasingly confronted with the consequences of this type of crime on our living environment. Indeed, criminals make a great deal of money in the trade, transit and production of drugs. I will say a few words about the crane and the mop later, not now but when I answer the questions. But we will talk about this later, at the beginning of June, in a special debate on this subject. Criminals are making a lot of money, and we're paying for the cost of cleaning up the life-threatening mess that's left. Unless that painting that Mr.Van Nispen referred to is leaking heavy white spirit: it is of course an art theft that then leads to a painting being transported back to the museum if it has been traced and that does not lead to the same special costs as cleaning up drug waste, from a pot plantation or from illegal fireworks. Mr. Chairman. Businesses engaged in the transhipment of goods are also faced with undermining crime. Support forces from these organized gangs are entering container terminals in ports and airports to collect and secure the drugs. That explains the part about the intruders. All this kind of activity confronts citizens and neighbourhoods in their ordinary lives and basically suppresses them. Criminals nest themselves between them and use ordinary neighborhoods to practice their illegal activities. There are a number of points that need to be dealt with in a repressive and tough manner. I will say a few words about this in the light of a number of questions raised by Mr Van Nispen in particular, namely that prevention is also needed, as will, of course, be taken away. But those aren't the bill we're talking about tonight. Tonight's really about these criminal acts. Of course, the starting point is and will continue to be the disruption of the criminal process. This also means that various forms of facilitating crime are punished more severely, that the perpetrators of criminal offences, for example, which pollute the living environment, should themselves bear the costs of disposing of those dangerous substances. Mr. Chairman. All in all, we are discussing five different measures this evening: the increase in penalties for threats and an additional increase in penalties for threats to mayors and other directors and toga carriers; the criminalisation of possession or transport of precursors for hard drugs; the criminalisation of criminal intruders in a restricted area, a container terminal in a port, airport or railway emplacement; the introduction of the measure cost story in the Opium Act, the Law on Economic Crimes and the Arms and Ammunitions Act; the application of the criminal execution investigation as a payment of a fine, compensation measure or forfeiture is not possible. I would like to thank all Members for their input, also earlier in the written round. I can see that there is broad support for the proposal, but I am also addressing some of the critical comments that have been made. I will come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Van Nispen's point in general. He asked me to reflect extensively on that after all. Of course, we also need to do a little more tonight, but I will reflect on that now anyway. There are going to be a few other discussions on drugs and on the police, in which this can be discussed in more detail. Mr Van Nispen knows that I have invested well in the police force, with 291 million at the beginning of the cabinet and another 80 million out of the 150 million from the BOTOC funds in the context of the undermining. Mr President, if I may speak immediately about the comparison made by Mr Markuszower. I have said it on several occasions: if we specifically target extra funds for a particular area of justice and security, then you cannot say: you are only doing 80 million, while those criminals earn about billion; you are doing far too little. Because, of course, we already have a very well-functioning judicial system and a very good police system. To put it in a very simple language: we do not need to buy the fast Audi's again. I am not going to go into that in detail, but I just want to point out that you cannot therefore compare these two amounts. However, I agree with Mr Markuszower and others that, in the event of this disturbance, we must also make enormous efforts to take away assets. We are going to talk about this in another context, but a piece of it is, of course, also in what we are discussing tonight. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to this on 10 June, but the occupation of financial detectives is currently in order. We can certainly discuss that in more detail on June 10th, when we talk about the police. I come to the first of those five topics: the increase in the penalty for threat. Mr Sneller rightly asked the question: how are you looking at the fact that the penalty is not enough, but that the prosecution and the ZM have not said so before? For the people who watch: ZM is the sitting magistrate. The point is that this is also how we qualify the societal impact of threat. I also had a debate with your Chamber sometime in the first year of my presidency, in which I pointed out that the threat originally came into our legislation as a fairly single crime, but that it has become increasingly a business model of organised crime. That is precisely why we see that the impact can be so much greater. As a society, you must also say: we must balance the punishment with that. Mr Van Nispen asked what the hope or expectation is that this increase will have effect. The unsubs risk a considerably higher sentence. The maximum sentence goes up from two to three years. So that's one and a half times higher. In the case of those officials, authorities or gowns, it is even four years. I'll get back to you on that. That's a double. Precisely where we see that in the business model for this kind of business people are tempted and used for those who are still a very big sword of Damocles. That really is a clear signal that if you do that fact, that fact is unacceptable and you get a hell of a punishment. That is why I come back to the first point: it is also the signal that we qualify it as very serious in this social development. Mrs Michon raised the issue and the concern that threats should not be played down. I think that my proposals are precisely what I do not mean by unkindly expressing the opposite. We are also doing more than just the repression when it comes to threats and aggression. Several specific measures have been developed to improve the protection of the profession of workers with a public role, such as police officers. I would like to mention the Safe Public Task programme, which is coordinated by the Minister of BZK and was developed by the former Minister of BZK, but also by Safe Working in Care, which was developed under the leadership of the then Minister of VWS. These measures have been developed to protect workers with such a public task. In addition, perpetrators of aggression and acts of violence are being treated harder, in accordance with the clear national agreements drawn up in 2010. Recently, under my ministry, the obstruction of aid workers as a separate criminal offence has been included in the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u96	I am committed to correcting this right from my point of view, because then I have not been clear. I do not want to detract from all the good efforts of the cabinet on this, but I was referring to "gagling" the victims. I called on you, as well as us in the Chamber, to give the signal to those groups not to deal lightly with, for example, not even a threat, but a slight harassment that could degenerate into a threat. I would like to call on the target group, the people concerned, not to trivialize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u97	I think Mrs. Michon and I are really on the same page. That is why I refer to all these projects. I endorse that. For example, the Press project has been set up for journalists, which has created a very low-threshold hotline and courses to make people recognise this well and to show them how to handle it. With the protocol aggression and violence against journalists, a harder offender approach is used repressively by means of a lick-on-piece policy and a higher penalty requirement of +200%. I also think that Mrs Mikhail Mikhail I may be mistaken; it may have been Mr Sneller, but it was one of the two Members who referred to that really shocking matter of the shovel that drove a photojournalist into a ditch. The guy was in his car with his girlfriend. It's really shocking what happened there. I am not going to say anything about that, of course, because that is now an individual criminal case. But in those situations, in this case involving journalists, you must demonstrate very clearly that this is unacceptable. That's what the police do. She's betting on it. In addition, special attention is paid to the resilience of farmers and employees of farms, ports and processing companies in ports. I would also advise your Chamber to pay another visit to one of the smaller ports, such as Vlissingen, through the permanent Committee of the Chambers. I do not know if I can say from Vlissingen that it is a smaller port, but I mean: slightly smaller than Rotterdam. There is a great deal of commitment to these kinds of things, such as resilience for the workers of the companies that have to process or implement the products that come ashore. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an important point: the question of why we have chosen the scope of the special penalty increase ground. Uche, uche. Mr President, I was tested negative this morning. I'd already had a shot. This was just a little pause cough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u98	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u99	Thank you. You weren't happy with a negative test in the past, but you are these days. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Nispen mainly asked about this scope. I think it would be a good idea to give some thought to the special grounds for increasing penalties when it comes to a particular group of officials, authorities and grooms. These are people who are central to and have an essential function for the proper functioning of public administration and for independent justice. Criminals are targeting those individuals whose effective and effective functioning is essential for the proper functioning of public administration through intimidation and threats. Threat I've already said it becomes part of the business model; so not just simply say it to someone: if you don't do what I want, and so on. Several prosecutors and lawyers have been seriously threatened. The most terrible low point we had on September 18th 2019; the murder of the lawyer Derk Wiersum. This has led to the structural release of EUR 55 million per year in the justice and security domain for additional surveillance and security for the guardians of our rule of law. On the one hand, you can say: that is a good thing. On the other hand, it is sad that we have to spend so much money just to ensure the security of people who are simply our rule of law. Sad. Journalists also contribute to the democratic nature of the rule of law, because they play a controlling role in relation to public administration, but also in relation to the three powers. That is why I mentioned all the measures that have been taken for them in recent years to combat aggression and violence. When I was Minister for a few months, there was also this truly absurd attack on the building of Panorama and shortly afterwards on the Telegraaf building. They showed how incredibly violent these criminal organizations are. In the original bill, I said that we are really focusing on the people who are at the heart of these toga functions and in that board. But when I look at social development, I say, as one of the older people in this room, in terms of age, that it is not comparable to 20, 25 years ago, when we see what has been going on in the last few years of aggression and violence against journalists. That's what I really want to say here. That is shocking, and that also makes me understand the amendment tabled by Mr Sneller. I think that some of the sharpeners in keeping our criminal justice system in the mathematics are perhaps going to give me another critical look at the fact that I will at least leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. I'll get to that later. Journalists must be able to identify abuses in our society and expose them unimpeded. In the meantime, I really think it should be very clear that threatening and intimidating them also means undermining that central position in our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Soon, when discussing the amendments, I will go into a little more detail about the amendment on police officers and boas. Mr Van der Staaij is being made equally difficult for life, but I am telling you, Mr President, I would like to remind you that it is complicated. If anyone here is sympathetic to this amendment, that is me. According to this amendment, we must also put this additional increase on the threat to police officers, who are always taking that step forward and who are always approachable as a maintainer and aid provider, not only in the case of corona, but also in the case of serious crime. There is a complicated matter, and we will have to deal with the amendments later, because an important difference between a journalist or a lawyer on the one hand and a police officer on the other is, of course, that a policeman has a public order function and that the police have the weapons monopoly. I shall come back to the amendments later, but I do think that is a point that we should have discussed here as a Chamber and I as a representative of the government. Mr. Chairman. The threat. I have already said that I will at least leave the opinion on Mr Sneller's amendment to the Chamber, but at the end, if I go through the amendments, I will confirm it formally. Mr. Chairman. The precursors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr Van Nispen on the previous point, I think. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u101	Yes, Mr President, there is a danger that I may seem very impatient, because the Minister will come back to the amendment, but I believe that we are now discussing the scope of that article and the professions in which it increases and which do not. I am not concerned with a mathematical approach or with the criticism that the legal system is completely correct. Preferably, by the way. First of all, it is a question of why the threat of a mayor or a minister or the President of the House of Representatives would lead to a higher sentence, but not that of a random person on the street. The Minister has already said something about that, and you can find something about that. Now the journalist is added to that. There are good reasons for that. If I listen to the minister carefully, the policeman doesn't seem to be added to that. But then there is the question of the municipal official. What about the notary? Why a lawyer, but not a notary? I do need a more detailed explanation of this by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u102	At the risk of disappointing Mr Van Nispen, and I do not like to say that the reasoning is very focused. I'm gonna have to say it again. It is a question of having a central position in a position which is essential for public administration or independent justice. Judges and fellow judges are of course visible as such. So are lawyers. And so are prosecutors. Sander Dekker, my colleague for Legal Protection, and I, after that terrible murder of 18 September 2019, held talks with a number of courts with the three toga professions. And there you saw that visible function in the rule of law, which in my youth meant as a lawyer: you wore a gown to indicate that you played a role in society. But apparently that role in society for those criminals has just become that person. These are people who are at the heart of justice and who are essential. However, let us stress that, if there is a threat to a public service, how can I put it: ordinary civil servant in a district planning department of a municipality, there can also be all kinds of more serious criminal circumstances, which can also lead to an increase in the sentence. For me, however, in drawing up this regulation, it has been important to put the role and the person at the heart of it, and its essential importance. I also remember from my own memory that in the 1990s a divorce lawyer was shot in the courthouse in Germany. I don't know if Mr Van Nispen remembers that. I found that extremely shocking. Then the reaction of the chairman of the German counter was as I just said, so I don't have those words of my own: apparently the justitive doesn't see us in a role anymore, but he just sees a person there. Then you, I think, are very vulnerable. You're in a multiple room. Mr Van Nispen recognizes that; he knows that. And then, apparently, for these serious criminals, you are no longer just a judge who performs his profession exquisitely. We have, internationally measured, a very high judicial authority, and also nationally measured, by the way, but you are doing something that these criminals do not like. I have expressed this here. And that is why I understand what you are saying, and you can say that 'you did not think of it at first', so the copyright is for Mr Sneller, for the point of the journalists, because it is also about the role, and not so much about the person or should be, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u103	The Minister really explains in an excellent way the importance of these people in the rule of law. I understand. I also fully support the seriousness of the problem. But for me that is not yet a completely thorough answer to the question: why the lawyer, and why not the notary? Why the mayor, but not, for example, the partner of the mayor, if he is threatened with the intention of letting that mayor do something or not do something? Then why not the highest official in the ministry? Do you understand? I understand that there may always be a grey area, but I do not yet see quite clearly why we are adding journalists to it. Once again, there is no misunderstanding, I really do sympathise with that, but I also sympathise with Mr Van der Staaij's amendment to add the police officers and the boas. And if someone comes up with an amendment to add the municipal official to it because of that important role, then I could also express sympathy for it. So I'm just trying to really understand. Then where is the demarcation, and how should we possibly judge all those sympathetic amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u104	But I have also made it very clear through that effect in that multiple chamber that it is about the people who play that visible role. And I, of course, occasionally meet with crime journalists; very brave people, because they are just visible with their name and everything. 40 years ago or something like that, in 1975 that's 46 years anyway, that was very rare and it was more half amateurish that such a person was threatened. Now we see, I repeat, that it belongs to the business model to threaten the people who play that visible role. That's why I tend to that point of those policemen. But I would like to discuss this in greater detail later on in the amendment. That is the essential point for me. Moreover, as far as officials are concerned, Mr President, you and your Chamber, and especially Mr Van Nispen, are familiar with my position: we are the visible people, not our officials. And that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u105	Finally, Mr President. Again, I agree with the Minister. He is now saying that the situation of threatening crime journalists is so bad and that these people play such an important role. I agree with the Minister on that, too. I really hope it doesn't happen, but suppose that in a few years' time the highest officials and notaries will also be threatened. Then that could be a reason in the Minister's reasoning for amending the law and adding them to it. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u106	I understand, but the world is developing. By the way, that's so special. In the days after the attack on Panorama I visited Panorama and De Telegraaf. That attack also hit two sheets, one of which was about gardening and one about fashion, I say. I'm not at home as much as you can see. It wasn't even the crime reporters. I can see some of them looking surprised right now, but they were in the same building. So let's say one thing very clearly. In fact, I think the following applies to this too. Those professions have a very visible position. The horrible murder of Derk Wiersum showed that, too. The mayor of Woensdrecht was also confronted with this in November. He is also someone who, because of this central function, essential position and visibility, has a vulnerability to himself and to the rule of law. Of that, I believe that it deserves a qualified penalty in the event of a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u107	Maybe a bit of a point of order. The Minister starts to react, but says: it will come later with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u108	I'm gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u109	Because there are different parts, it may be practical to finish each part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u110	What's the railroad book? Where are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u111	We're a whole end, you might say. That's another relative term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u112	But in terms of subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u113	I have just heard from Mr Sneller that I am on block one of fifteen! But no, Mr President, we still have a few more issues to discuss. But if that is easier, I would like to do Mr Van der Staaij's amendment now. I think that Mr Van der Staaij's amendment is something I have thought about for a long time; you must be clear that there is therefore a substantial difference in the instrumentalisation of a lawyer on the one hand and a police officer on the other. But I do think that this is also a professional group that is very visible and takes a step forward. That is one of the key features, I say every year at the speech at the Police College at the opening of the year. In that sense, I will also leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. Mr. Chairman. Then I can quickly do the precursors. Mrs Michon-Derkzen asked whether I could continue to stress that the list of banned precursors is being rapidly expanded. Yeah, I really want to solemnly pledge to her that I will. It's being inventoryd right now. We're the two of us. I will be active in this. Mr Sneller asked: is it really necessary to ban precursors under ministerial rules, and is the need to be quick enough to pass the Chamber? Well, we need to get them off the legal market as soon as possible. That increases the criminal risk. A ministerial arrangement can really be achieved a few months faster than an AMvB. This is an important time-saving step. I understand that Mr Sneller says: I want to see a clear responsibility. I hereby undertake to forward to your Chamber at least once a year the expert group's reports, on which a decision to prohibit them is based. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij asked about the safety net clause. We discussed this at length a year or three ago. The approach of the Arms and Ammunitions Act is not good enough for such a ban on suspicious chemicals to be threatened with sanctions, because it must be foreseeable in the event of criminalisation whether or not a person is a criminal offence. In the case of a safety net determination for precursors, which would be similar to that in the Wwm, it is not the object, the weapon, which is intended and suitable for the injury, but a substance that can be used for the production of drugs. However, such a substance cannot be distinguished as regards its appearance from other substances which cannot be used for such purposes. The ban is then too undetermined. This may lead to uncertainty as to the scope of the sentence. That is why a wider safety net clause along the line of the Arms and Ammunitions Act has been waived. A national list of prohibited substances has been chosen in order to be able to impose lighter requirements on the perpetrator's intent. That is the model of the lists at the Opium Act. A precursor ban, which I would like to stress, is of course helping to shorten the life cycle of certain drug precursors. There is no denying that these drug criminals will not simply cease their criminal activities after a pre-emptive ban. They will look for other banned precursors, but they are constantly being put under pressure to adapt their methods. This is also part of the process of disruption, which is part of countering undermining. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I'm moving on quickly. Mr Van Nispen asked: does the police only get a one-off sum and is the NFI equipped for the extra work? All implementing parties have been asked whether the bill is enforceable and, if so, at what additional cost. That's what police and NFI have been asked to do. The police have indicated that they can implement the law if additional analytical equipment is provided for the Rural Facility Support Decommissioning, the LFO. That claim has been honored. The NFI has indicated that it is expected to be able to implement the law within the current financial frameworks. Mr Van der Staaij asked: are we there with the proposed ban on precursors? I hope I have answered that question by now. In order to combat the abuse of substances that have legal application, the EU has drawn up a number of regulations. We've discussed this with each other before. The aim is to prevent chemicals used by the regular industry from falling into the hands of drug criminals. If substances are not yet regulated under the Treaties, the EU can still do so. It happens all the time. This should also be the subject of regular consultations. I have already told Mrs Michon-Derkzen that I will be committed to this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik wondered what would be needed to put the legal technique more into service of more clarity with regard to the measure of punishment. That is a difficult question; a good question, but a difficult one. It suggests a contradiction between the legal technique and the clearness of the measure of punishment, but the point is that the measure of punishment is closely related to the legal system. The level of punishment for the production of precursors is lower than that for the production of drugs, because precursors as such have not been prohibited so far. However, possession is punishable when it comes to the preparation of drug offences. Because it is a matter of preparing a criminal offence and not of committing it, the preparatory act is subject to a slightly lower penalty than of committing the drug offence. That is what, according to the legal system, we call "a clear measure of punishment." Whether penalties for offences involving precursors and drugs as such are sufficiently high is also a question for which more political consideration is needed. That is what we should discuss with each other on 2 June, 2 June, in the debate on drugs in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u114	I have the next question. The purpose of the criminals is, of course, the same: to get to the drugs an sich. Hence my question. Those pre-emptive acts with these precursors are the same as the actual drugs, aren't they? Shouldn't we be even? Because it's the same endgame for those criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u115	I've just explained why that is. I have to think a little about "a cow is an animal, but an animal is not a cow," but that's not him. A precursor isn't the drug yet, the drug. I would like to make the following proposal: we can discuss this further on 2 June, in the debate on drugs, as far as I am concerned. Then the next topic: the criminal intruders. Mrs Michon rightly had a question about that. The criminalisation is a closed place, criminal intruders entering closed sites to extract narcotics and other illegal goods from containers. It is therefore not a question of the employees of the companies concerned, in so far as those persons are not illegally present on the premises and are there with their employer's permission. Mr Sneller asked: is this about staying in the ports, regardless of the intention? Illegal residence in a private place in a port, airport or railway emplacement is punishable. It is then a crime, for which intent is required for the stay at the closed place. But the unsub's motive for the illegal residence is not a condition for the criminality. But we all know from our youth the "forbidden access Article 461 W. v. Sr.," at least, that was so in my youth. It's not about why I came into that off-limits area, what my motive is. The point is this: if I got there on purpose, when I knew it was forbidden, then that intention is present. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Nispen asked: will there be more capacity for controlling illegal residence in ports? On 14 May, I informed your Chamber that I supported the local plans for the undermining approach in the port of Rotterdam and at Schiphol Airport with almost EUR 7 million. This strengthens the approach of exhalers. 225 cameras have also been installed in the port of Rotterdam. In addition, the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team, you know, will start with six operational routes in the coming month. This includes in particular the approach of those logistics facilitators. Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked about the measure of the cost story. I hope I can get through it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u116	There is a question from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u117	I'm just trying to figure out how to get in here illegally. I referred to the issue of the legal presence on a port site, which was the subject of the customs investigation. We are talking about a law-abiding, chauffeur or security guard who has been there for legal reasons, but who has been in the picture before for drug smuggling. What do we do with that? So these are not illegal intruders, but people who are simply legally on the ground and are very clearly a danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u118	That is a very valid point. Of course, we have been talking about this with Schiphol, Rotterdam and Vlissingen in recent years. We know the saying of the weakest link. It is very often about people who are either in a private or otherwise vulnerable position, or people who succumb once to the pressure, because it seems very attractive. There is an enormous amount of commitment to the ex ante resilience, i.e. prevention. That is also what extra money has been made available for. I also said that I recently went to Vlissingen to see how that worked out in practice. Furthermore, a person who is legally involved in the import and/or transit of drugs in this way is simply punishable. But this is about criminalising the crime of trespassing. It would be a little crazy if someone who could be legal would go out there and climb in illegally, so they won't be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u119	I sometimes think: why don't we make the port of Rotterdam a safe area like Schiphol? I mean that anyone who is behind the gates, behind the counter, is screened and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u120	But it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u121	Well, is that right? That didn't come out of this investigation, because the research I showed indicated that after two and a half months of screening what's out there, it turned out that there's a lot of stuff going around that you think: rather not, with that past. So I would like to give you: permanent control of that from what you are doing in Vlissingen and other port areas, because it is no good anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u122	I must, of course, be honest in saying that I cannot guarantee that the rules that apply to screening are always 100% applied, because of course there can also be someone who is vulnerable to screening. But you will also see, of course, the point that first of all it is important that you ensure that people do not end up in that situation, or that you at least recognize the signals from their colleagues. Of course, it sounds awful, but in recent years we have invested extra money to be able to report signals at work if you think: this colleague is acting strangely. Mr Markuszower advocates, for example, having 10,000 extra policemen. This is really not feasible in a society of the size of the Netherlands. This cabinet has already created more than 3,000 FTE in the police department. It takes a great deal of effort to get those 3,500 people trained and in front of the exit of people who are retiring. So that's already a task. Apart from those two things: in the end the solution cannot be found in the 24/7-like standing there. The solution is to find that at the front you screen people well and train them well. You have to explain what the risks and the like are and take the people into it. You're gonna have to make arrangements for yourself, too. Let me give you a very simple, small example. A large fruit trading company in Vlissingen didn't let his people go off the premises with company cars or company clothes with prints, because they said: someone can follow them home and then they know where they live and that kind of thing more. They'll be more vulnerable to criminals. These are all measures that are being developed to keep these companies away from them as much as possible. Then there's the question about the cost story. Does the measure also apply to weapons? Yes, the cost story measure also applies to weapons. Then there is Mrs Michon-Derkzen's question. The Council of State says that the little boys are caught, but also that it must be used for high destruction costs. The cost of destruction is recovered from people convicted of a criminal offence. People who are facilitating also play a fundamental role in the undermining of crime. I also believe that Mrs Kuik pointed that out. Of course, it is more just for people to pay for the costs of disposal and destruction themselves than for society to pay for it. If the cost of applying the measure exceeds the cost of destroying it, it is unlikely that the Public Prosecutor will do so. However, this does not mean that the cost story measure will only be claimed if the cost of destruction is high. The starting point is that the cost of destroying the property should not be passed on to the community, but should be borne as much as possible by those convicted of committing a criminal offence. This should also apply if these costs are relatively low. I want to say two things very clearly. First, it is up to the court to determine whether costs can indeed be passed on. I have taken on board from the opinion of the Council of State that the judge can take into account the role and personal situation of the suspect concerned. The costs are thus recovered from people convicted of a criminal offence. Mr. Chairman. I follow Mr Van Nispen's discussion of principle as far as the costs of the criminal proceedings are concerned. I'll endorse that immediately. It would be very contrary to my sense of justice, although there are also companies where that is the case. But these are legal systems where Mr Van Nispen and I are not comfortable. However, I do not think that you should pass on costs related to the criminal proceedings or the execution of penalties and the like to the convicted person. That must come from the general means, and that is simply what I can refer to as criminal proceedings, a principle of society. In doing so, you must also respect the principles of the Maat report, because that is precisely what is linked to the "causer pays" principle. That is, if the group of persons clearly requires the government to do much more than should have been normal, it may be reasonable to pass some of the costs on to those persons. The report says a number of things that are actually contained in this bill, because this is about the story of the cost of destroying harmful substances or means. They must be destroyed because they pose a serious threat to the environment and to public health. With all honor and virtue, but therefore the example of the painting that has to be driven back to the museum is not covered by this arrangement. Unless it's a very ugly painting, but then...! There are no costs related to anything life-threatening for the environment or public health, for example the cost of destruction or compensation. So I want to make that very clear. It's just in the legal text, but I really want it recorded in the Acts. It is a measure of repair. The primary legal basis for the cost story measure is restoration of law. I would like to point out that a regulation of this kind is not new, since Article 8c of the Law on Economic Crime already provides for the possibility of performing what has been unlawfully omitted, the nullification of what has been unlawfully carried out and the performance of services to make amends. In other words, until recovery. So this kind of thing already exists in the law, but I really want to stress that it is not a question of costs in relation to the criminal proceedings or anything like that. It is only life-threatening substances that need to be destroyed or disposed of. In addition, the court can mitigate, simply on the basis of the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u123	I expressly do not stand here for the popularity prize tonight, because the easy story would be to let this topic go. But I still think it's important, if only for the history of law. I think there are questions of principle, because some of the Minister's reasoning comes close to 'it is because it is'. We are talking about the destruction of dangerous goods, but in view of the principle of repairability, so the restoration of the previous situation, I think that the analogy with a painting is appropriate. I know the Minister didn't write that down. But from the point of view of the legal system, have you considered the nature of such a repairable measure? You can stop the argument that it is fairer and more just if society does not have to pay for the costs that someone has caused themselves, for the criminal proceedings or for the days that someone is in detention for example. One of the minister's predecessors has tried to introduce this. In this respect, I do not find it sufficiently clear why this can be done in principle, while the other, according to the Minister, is absolutely out of the question. The analogy with the painting of course also concerns the repairability character. For example, the Justice Department should keep a stolen painting and give it back later. Well, keeping a painting is also a cost. There too I see not so much the distinction between why it is justified to pass on the costs of fireworks from a young person who has them illegally, but not from the art robber. It escapes me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u124	Very briefly, it focuses on substances or substances that pose a serious threat to the environment and/or to public health. Those are things that, in any case, are destroyed or destroyed. must be removed. This is often costly for society. We're not talking about someone who has a couple of illegal flares at home. I'm going back to the beginning. December 2017, when the police seized tens of thousands of kilos of illegal fireworks, including really heavy, dangerous fireworks. That's where the police had started to be very intensively engaged just from 2015, 2016. That is fireworks that are indeed dangerous. It costs a lot to store it temporarily and then destroy it. Drug waste that is dumped somewhere: that too simply costs a lot and it is very dangerous for the environment and public health. I agree with Mr Van Nispen that you need to look at proportionality here. But storing a painting... I have also been to the Rijksdomainen, where for years a whole collection of paintings has been hanging from a convicted criminal. Those paintings cannot be auctioned or sold for all kinds of legal reasons or whatever. That's not covered by this bill. I think everyone agrees, even if we have to send them back to a museum later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u125	I may have been a little impatient in replying to the Minister, but that's because the Minister is going to explain how bad it is with the drugs and with the fireworks and you name it all. But I don't dispute that at all. I was just hoping that the Minister... I realize I'm asking a complicated question and that it's late and that I'm coming up with all these basic issues. But if the lawyer points out to us that there is a deviation from the general principle that the costs incurred in implementing measures are borne by the State, and that this proposal is therefore a trend break, then I think it is important to consider the legal treatment here. Then the Minister says how bad the problem of drug waste is and why it is justified or not, but I do not think that is an answer to my question. I regret that, because I believe that we should also talk about the legal system and the principle. Then the Minister simply did not convince me on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u126	I would like to respond to that. Above all, we should not worry about the late evening, because I still think it is a good thing that we are having a sharp debate on this. I'll do it with all the sharpness I've been given. Whether the lawyer who calls it a "trend break" is equally verse two, but I would point out that we have said the following in relation to a small part of the matters that are on the way from the government and where indeed matters need to be removed or destroyed which I shall return to again... represent a serious danger to the environment and public health; and then it is also limited to three categories in the law. Of this, I say: the costs involved, which are often disproportionate, which add only more to the damage to society, must be able to reasonably tell the person who did it. In reasonable terms, because the judge has a test to say: this is a gentleman or a lady who is totally incapable of doing anything with it in terms of income and wealth, so I do not do so, or I do so for a very small part, or we find that the test of serious danger to the environment or public health has not been met. That's a really high bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u127	I appreciate Mr Van Nispen's search for consistency, because the Minister is talking about the particular nature of the costs, he is talking about the level of costs and he is talking about the fact that it is dangerous or, as he now puts it, a little more legally. I'm still looking a little bit for what the compelling argument is to do it this way in this law, especially in the last wording: the life-threatening substances or stuff or things that are disastrous for society. But then they are hemp farms too, whereas these lights can sometimes simply be auctioned, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u128	I'm sorry, the lights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u129	The lights, the lamps used in a hemp farm, which domains could, so to speak, simply be sold to growers of legal items but are not in any case life-threatening as a lamp, and the plants, which are allowed to be sold again in regulated coffee shops, would not meet the high bar set by the Minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u130	Well, we're gonna take an advance on other things, because I don't think the police in this society can in any way start trading narcotics themselves, so that seems to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u131	But this isn't what I suggested, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u132	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u133	Well, I don't know. Shall I finish, Mr. Chairman? Once again, I shall come back to this: the substances must be destroyed because they pose a serious threat to the environment and to public health. That's the criterion. First, the Public Prosecutor's Office will decide whether such a claim is made here. Then it's still up to the judge to check that out. As far as the lamps you are talking about are concerned, I would like to say to the Acts that I can imagine the judge saying: well, the destruction of lamps that might not have been necessary does not seem to me to be a cost that can be recovered, also because I do not see what the serious danger would be to the environment or to public health. I do understand Mr Sneller's critical reservations on this point. I really want to stress that it is not motivated to be able to do an extra repressive act against people convicted of a criminal offence. That is why the bar is high, as you can see in the drafting of the bill and in the explanatory statement, and that is why the court has added the reasonableness test. Then you may look at me that it was not originally in it, but I thought that was a justified point of criticism from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u134	But then I can conclude that the general motivation behind this is the high cost to society, but that the burden of proof and the specific argument for this demarcation lie in the threat to the environment and health rather than in the costs in individual cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u135	I think the essential point is that we are talking about substances that need to be destroyed. I also keep saying "removed" because it may also be that destruction on the ground is not even on the agenda and then you have to take it somewhere else. I hardly dare to repeat it, but that is the central point of the serious danger to the environment and public health. Mr Sneller mentioned these lamps as an example, but there are also other things in the context of a criminal activity, also a weed plantation, of which you can say: it is, of course, nonsense to cover these costs. Then the fireworks. I really want to emphasise that. Originally this is from December 2017, when I got the reports on what the police were confiscating. There's just some really dangerous stuff in there, sometimes the bomb squad has to come along and dismantle it. You also wonder what people's fun is to buy all that, but that's for another debate. Mr. Chairman. I think that's the point of the cost story, but I'm not quite there yet. Mr Van Nispen asked whether it was true that municipalities themselves were responsible for the cost of disposing of drug waste. Unfortunately, there is often no known suspect on whom you can recover costs. If the perpetrators are in the picture, municipalities and private individuals can apply to the civil court to recover the costs from that causer. The government is structuralally addressing the municipalities in the costs they incur for the disposal of drug waste through the subsidy scheme for drug waste dumping, for which, between 2019 and 2024, 1 million per year has been structurally released from my budget, that of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Kathmann had a story about the evaluation, which is now taking place after five years. It has been taken from the model in Instructions for regulation. In the event of a shorter period than five years, it should be borne in mind that this period is too short for a real evaluation because in practice you often have not gained enough experience with that law. This measure will really require the efforts of the authorities responsible for implementing it. I think it would be realistic to propose a period of five years there. Then there is enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mrs Kathmann on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u137	Thanks for the answer. Clear. Is there a lighter instrument than a full evaluation that would allow you to look at the effectiveness of that law in the interim?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u138	I don't think it's any problem, of course. It's easy to say by a outgoing minister to say that after three years my ministry will at least report on what experience has been gained up to then. The observation now is that that will not be enough to draw definitive conclusions from that, but that will at least give an interim picture of how things are going and whether it really seems to work as we intended it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u139	I had also asked a few questions about the evaluation clause. The first question was: why only evaluate that cost story, while, as the Minister himself said in his introduction, at least five things are regulated in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u140	Right. I'm gonna have to think about that. If that's all right with you, I'll come back to that. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u141	Excellent. I have a second question. The explanatory statement on that evaluation clause makes it clear that it is a question of achieving its objective. Perhaps the Minister could also reflect on that, even heard the debate on the cost story? Should there not be other aspects involved in this evaluation? Should we not also look at the logic of other aspects? How'd it work out? How often has this moderation been applied? Shouldn't this evaluation include a number of such questions, which we will be able to see again in at least three or five years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u142	I can certainly agree with that. I do not think it should be the case that we are just going to see if it has been used or something like that. We also need to see how this works. This evening we are talking about the repressive side of the fight against undermining crime. It is therefore particularly important that we look at whether this is a measure which also clearly has the effect of deterrents. For a government with a Justice budget of 12 billion will not fall directly from this, although in some cases, for example with fireworks, costs are very high. I've just pointed out the few million dollars in the cost of drug dumping. In particular, you are looking at whether it really helps; I do not think that Mr Sneller needs to explain. So let us say above all that in this mid-term review, which I have already mentioned with Mrs Kathmann, the open question is: what has this arrangement brought into practice in all respects? So what are the results? And what has not put the scheme into practice? Then let's open our eyes to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to that SEO. This will therefore be extended and can also extend to criminal assets located abroad. That's what I'm telling Mrs. Michon-Derkzen. In the context of an SEO, an application for legal aid may be addressed to another country to carry out investigative activities in order to detect assets in that country. And when the assets are outside the EU, they are dependent on those applicable conventions and the legislation in the country in question. And the D.A. will then depend on the possibilities abroad to use means of tracking the assets in the execution phase. Mrs Bikker asked when there was a significant commitment. This can, of course, vary from one case to another. The Judge Commissioner will have to assess whether there is a remaining payment obligation of significant importance. When considering the use of an SEO, many factors play a role, for example the level of the payment obligation imposed, the remaining obligation and also the part that has already been fulfilled. This will also be the subject of ordinary case law. Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the amendments that I have not yet discussed, I would like to touch on a few things that have been said about drugs. I will answer the questions on this, although we will also discuss them in a committee debate on 2 June, as I said. I therefore hope that we will be able to discuss in greater detail the issue raised by Mr Sneller on the crane and the mop. I say that separately from the question whether Mr Van der Staaij has picked up the metaphor in his own 'Staaljaanse' way, or whether it was in a 'Snellerian' way. What I do want to say is that Dutch drugs policy has for many years had a balanced approach between the aspects of public health and that of safety. For this reason, this cabinet has also started work on the so-called 'weed experiment', which is now at the stage of the selection of growers. Each means is assessed on the risks by a different committee of experts. Following the opinion of that committee, it is placed on one of the opium legislative lists. For the legalisation of hard drugs, I go back to the debate I had with your Chamber on September 11, 2019. At that time, I stressed that there can be no legalisation of hard drugs. For, 1: the list I resources have a high risk to the individual and society. 2. The illegal industry will not disappear by legalising hard drugs only in the Netherlands, because a very large part of the market for the painfully produced or imported drugs in the Netherlands is abroad. 3. We are members of a number of international conventions. The UN Committee on Drugs in Vienna, at least during my presidency, confirmed unanimously in its biennial conference that, also for reasons of high risk to individuals and society, this cannot be the case. I would like to stress once again that these are not just countries such as the United States, but also countries such as China and Russia. I do not know how many countries in the world are in there and there is no legalisation of resources anywhere in the world. Whether there really is a successful legalisation of cannabis in the long term, I would like to talk more about this on 2 June. That does not go away, as I emphasise here, that I have still committed myself as a minister, although this cabinet is now decommissioned, to carrying out that weed experiment further. But with regard to hard drugs, as Minister, I have always said: legalisation is zero option. In any case, this means that we must realise that we have a hard, very hard sociopathic organized crime that we as a society will have to fight. The term "war on drugs" is not my term. I also think that there is a great difference between the United States and the Netherlands, or at least there was. We in the Netherlands are doing everything we can to help people who have fallen into an addiction problem and not to isolate, condemn or have to put them in a cold turkey. That is one very important point. Another essential point is that we in the Netherlands do not have so much to do with my ministry as a system of social security and social safety nets, which also makes every effort to prevent people from slipping all the way to the bottom in that respect. That does not mean that organised crime undermines the neighbourhoods and the citizens who are vulnerable. That is where we have to work with the crane. Once again, I would very much like to discuss this with the people who are there. That will be discussed by almost everyone here on 2 June. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna wait a second, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u144	I thought I'd wait for the Minister to finish his run, but that took a little longer. My question was about the previous point, the SEO and the extent of the significant importance that the judge has to look at before he can impose the obligation. The Minister says, "That's up to case law." The law speaks of considerable importance and I simply miss a definition, something of frameworks, something of a scope. When is a payment obligation of significant importance? Does that see the amount up to date? Does that see for a principled reason because you think someone should be obliged to do something anyway? Actually, I think it's a little vague, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u145	It is very good that Mrs Bikker says that, because that brings me to one of my favourite hobbies in my previous life, namely the vague standard of law. It is true that this is a vague standard. Why is that? If you are going to define in law what "significant importance" is, then... We have seen the misery that has been caused by legislation or regulation without any hardness clauses. Let's not talk about that anymore. If it's not possible for the judge to make an assessment according to the circumstances, then you're stuck. What do I mean by a "virgin standard"? Let me say that for those who think that is unclear. For example, reasonableness and fairness is a standard that allows the judge to weigh all circumstances. That is why I have also mentioned them: the level of the commitment imposed, the remaining commitment, the part already paid, but also other personal circumstances of the persons concerned. The judge must be able to weigh whether he considers that there is a residual payment obligation of significant importance in that case. That's because I have a lot of confidence in our judge and in his consistent ability to make judgements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u146	This is a joyous day, because we agree on vague standards and on how good judges are. It is, of course, wonderful that the judge should be allowed to make that assessment and also to look at the question of when something is pinching. But it just stays vague. There can still be a significant interest when it comes to a very small claim that you assign because it is important that someone should at least pay something. It could really be anything now. The judge can therefore come to a rather strict explanation, because the minister has not really given any frameworks for what it means. I would therefore ask him to clarify that. The same applies to those personal circumstances. I think it's very vague. The Minister said earlier that this also occurs in other areas of criminal law. Can he at least tell us what the framework is for this, and can he also look at the case law? For that will be more clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u147	No, I just want to give the judge the room for judgment as much as possible. I would like to reassure Mrs Bikker in this respect that the word'significant' is in any case a decision that it should not be monetary for a small amount. But I'm going to give you an example. The reaction I'm getting now, I'm meeting at home, too, Mr. Chairman. So I'm used to it. Let me give you an example. Let us say that there is a remaining commitment of €100,000. The payment obligation was 4 million, but the judge-in-chief notes that this is someone who has taken full responsibility for it and who has made others take the fall for it in the meantime. Then the judge in that case can say: I think that this is a substantial amount, even though it is only €1 at €40 that should still be paid. I think we should give the judge that freedom of judgment. Once again, I would have liked to have noted here for the Acts that it should not be about amounts that are really negligible. I have also said that it must be an amount that is also justified in the light of the story. The costs of the claim must also be proportionate to the amount claimed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u148	Then I note that the Minister says, on the one hand, that it must be proportionate to what is being done, but, on the other hand, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u149	No, I'm not saying that. That's exactly why I set that example. At that €1 at €40 you can say: that man or woman has already paid off a lot of that amount. But €100,000 can represent a significant interest in the circumstances of the case. We should not want to fill that in the Chamber and me as legislator. Once again, I did say that this is not a small monetary amount, in the sense of a few hundred euros. Of course, there must be some substantiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u150	A new attempt, Mr President, at least to clarify it. It must be a sum of some substantiality. Beautiful word. I assume that we will be able to achieve something above the hundreds of euros. But it must also be proportionate to the costs of the claim. I do not read this in the legal text, but I do hear it in the answer given by the Minister to the personal circumstances...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u151	They have to be able to weigh in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u152	...of whoever it was. You did mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u153	That's what I named. I did so just now to Mr Van Nispen. I repeat that three times in my actions, so to speak through the Acts, by making the appeal to the judge: the judge must really take a good look at those personal circumstances. It's not about pushing down a very small squeezer in a case. Those people are very often in vulnerable positions; we have just talked about that with the climbers. It is precisely by not filling in such a standard as a significant interest, but by mentioning a few circumstances, that I want to give the judge the room to include his sense of reasonableness. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a few things. Mr Eerdmans asked: is the Minister prepared to step up national action on money laundering? Yes. They're already intensifying. That is another debate, but on the basis of Mr Hoekstra's and myself's plan of action of 30 June 2019, a large number of additional measures have been taken both on a chain-wide and on a sector-by-sector basis. The progress reports send colleague Hoekstra and I to your Chamber periodically. In some time, there will be another one, in which it will be discussed. I know the polish approach from Rotterdam well. I spoke about this with Mayor Aboutaleb and his then Head of Unit Pauw, who is now active in Amsterdam. The decision on such an approach lies in our police system at the local triangle. Together with Mr Dekker, I have previously promised your Chamber that I will bring all such best practices to the attention of the municipalities. I will also discuss this in the many contacts with the triangles. I have written a number of letters to your Chamber about, for example, preventive search. I have indicated that this is legally permitted under the ECHR, provided that certain conditions are met. Let me just give you an example. Ultimately, it is up to the local triangles to determine how they shape these kinds of things in enforcement. Mr. Chairman. The introduction costs and structural costs of the bill are high, says Mr Sneller. These costs can largely be met within existing budgets. Specifically for the measures and the cost story, although benefits and charges are difficult to estimate in advance, this component is expected to be cost-neutral. Now I also come to an earlier point that I had to look up. Sorry about that, Mr. Chairman. That is: why the evaluation for the cost story, but not for the other things? This has been included in view of the uncertainty, including with regard to benefits and charges. Once again, I have stressed that it is not so much a question of making the government rich, but we should also look at this measure to see if we are not putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u154	Let's talk about the banger checks. The minister says they're in the hands of the local triangles. Of course, he has the biggest right of the fish market in Groningen, as Minister Remkes used to say. Will it help the Minister if we adopt a motion to intensify this phenomenon? Does that help him? I still do not see much enthusiasm, but it would be a good thing if you could take such an assignment in the pants towards that triangle and tell the triangle that a request has been made from national politics to extend the patron controls. They help a lot, they help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u155	I live in Amsterdam. In fact, I would go home tonight on the moped and call the mayor and say: I have here the Eerdmans motion saying that this approach needs to be stepped up. Then the mayor, whether from Amsterdam, Haarlem or from any municipality, quite rightly says: friendly friend, that is beautiful, but I am the local authority. I would like to emphasise the following, and I have seen it every week in the corona epidemic when we discussed the measures. I think it is a great system that we have that local security responsibility, so that the local triangle can actually use what is most appropriate locally. It's the kind of motion... of course I don't want to ruin your life...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u156	Our lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u157	It doesn't do you much good. I think that's real, and that's how it works under state law: it's the local triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u158	About the cost. It's a lot of money. I think it is very good that real costs are estimated for implementation and that it is earmarked for this purpose, no misunderstanding. But there is instantly 1.1 million extra per year for the collection processes at the CJIB, for maintaining and arranging the process of collection. I thought that was a big amount of money. Then there is the issue of evaluation. I understand that the cost story is a special category within this bill, but we were talking, for example, about a ministerial arrangement versus an AMvB for precursors. With that list I need to hear after a few years if it works and if there are many sounds that there have been things on that list that do turn out to have a legal use. I would have liked to have evaluated these signals after a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u159	At the risk of sounding too accommodating: I can imagine. Allow me, in the second term, to take a more specific approach to these precursors. As regards the criminality of climbers or the threat that is now qualified, we say, in principle, that we are now going to set up our criminal justice system in this way. Mr Van Nispen also pointed out that, in three or five years' time, we might feel socially that the emphasis has shifted to other groups. Then we'll have to have that discussion. Then we would have to project the entire criminal justice system on the wall every three years and stuff like that. We will not do so, but it can be said at some point by the Cabinet or by the Chamber that criminal law needs to be changed, because that is no longer in line with social development. I take that of those precursors into my head, because I do understand that this is a technical point, where it is useful to evaluate it. In the second term, I will make a concrete commitment to this, Mr President. We have talked about the structural costs of introduction. Then the psychoactive substances. I'd like to speed up on those NPS, the new psychoactive substances. The Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and I have looked into it and said that we cannot cover the structural burden within the current budget of Justice and Security. That is really something for the office that is now in office to decide on. If you do that, you're going to add a whole new list to the Opium Act; not just one substance but different dust groups. Then you really have to do a lot of structural extra in enforcement practice. I would certainly like to say to Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik that we really need to see how we can make funds available for this, because I think this is a very worrying development. The same goes for Mr Van Nispen's question about the money given to eight municipalities to deter young people in disadvantaged areas. Mr Van Nispen knows, because I shared this with your Chamber in previous debates, that last year Corona drew a strong line from the plans I had drawn up for the structural approach to undermining. There was also 100 million for prevention from Justice and Security, alongside what other departments do. As a result of the epidemic, I had to conclude that money would not be available. I think this is also a point. We are talking about repression tonight, but much more needs to be done in the front, in prevention. Then you also come out of the discussion about whether or not the crane and the mop. Of course, it's about the damage caused by drugs and all that, but it's about taking young people away from a trail where they're going to do the wrong things. Let's be very clear about that. Children in Kanaleneiland, Utrecht, should already be protected by youth workers at the age of 9 or 10 from recruitment by gangs. Everyone knows how incredibly gloomy it would be if we didn't put a lot of effort into this now and in the years to come. I have already said something about the growth of the number of youth workers. The Damocles Act, following Mr Sneller's remark. When making a decision, the mayors shall consider whether the adverse effects on the persons concerned are not disproportionate. The WODC is investigating the application and consequences of the new Article 13b of the Opium Act. This research is expected to be completed by the end of the summer. As soon as it's there, I'll send the piece of a policy response to your Chamber. On Mr Van der Staaij's point about drug dumping in nature, I can come back to the debate on tackling undermining crime on 16 June. Mrs Bikker has asked how many times have been prosecuted by companies offering equipment that is clearly made available for the production of drugs. There is no separate registration of the prosecutions for preparatory acts that see the sale of such equipment. Then nitrous oxide. It is desirable to ban nitrous oxide. I would like to say that to Mrs Kuik immediately. Again, the structural costs of maintaining them are high. Given the regularity with which the police encounter nitrous oxide, the enforcement of a ban, according to the police, will entail an additional cost of around EUR 20 million. That also has to do with the fact that a cylinder cannot just be left in the police car and that kind of thing. It cannot be ruled out that these costs could become structurally lower and could go towards the 10 million, but it is really a structural increase. We must also have the means to do so. If a motion is being tabled for this, I would really argue, somewhat preluded on that, that we should hold that motion until we can discuss it with each other after a formation. By "we," I mean the functional "we." Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bikker asked about the research design. The investigation into the locational climate for drug criminals has been deported to the WODC. It's being carried out externally. It begins now and will be sent to your Chamber as foreseen in spring 2022. I will inform your Chamber shortly about the investigation questions that have been deported. Then I come to the amendments. Mr Van Nispen's amendment to item No. 7 is about dropping costs. I'm not going to recommend that amendment. You understand why. In any case, I have promised Mrs Kathmann that there will be a mid-term report that can be regarded as an evaluation without being a proper legal evaluation, so that the Chamber can discuss this earlier. Perhaps that could lead Mr Van Nispen to other thoughts. Then there is Mr Sneller's amendment on the journalist or publicist. I have already said that I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. As for the Acts, I consider that the same definition has been followed here as in the proposal for a directive on source protection. This is important for the legislative consistency. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's amendment. I've already discussed that, and I've given Chamber judgment. I come to Mrs Michon-Derkzen's amendment, which is actually about criminalising doxing. I'm starting by saying that I think that doxing is really criminal. That is what we need to work on in our criminal law, and I would like to make that very clear. I therefore appreciate this from Mrs Michon-Derkzen. I would also like to congratulate her predecessor as a spokesperson, my new colleague Dilan Yeşilgöz, an outstanding Member of Parliament, who has come up with this. I am in favour of it, but I do think that we should put it together legally as legislative power. And by putting 'legally' together, I mean the wordings, but I also mean in the consultation involving those parties who are mainly involved in practice: OM, case law, legal profession. That is simply in a rule of law, I think, really important - apart from the fact that we are also asking the Council of State for advice, and all further consultations. But I really think we should do that. I would not be able to give it an opinion as an amendment, Chamber, if I may put it so nicely. So I'm actually saying that I would have to dissuade it, and I'm having a lot of trouble with that, because at the same time I think we need to do something with this. I would actually like to come back to your Chamber in the very near future with a concrete legislative proposal on this point, so I shall just say with perhaps some legal fine grinding but very much in line with today's amendment put forward by the VVD. So I would like to come up with a legislative proposal that can be consulted before the summer recess 2021. It is also in line with the intention I made last week in response to questions from various Members of D66. I think that if we just pay a little more attention and time to this at the front, we can actually satisfy ourselves that this is going to be a very careful legislative proposal, because this is really disgusting to society. I really say "disgusting," and I said that in response to D66's questions about Vizier on the Left. And I say it again here, and Mr Wouter Koolmees said it yesterday. I think it's a disgusting phenomenon, so we need to get to work on it quickly. So I'd like to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u160	It's been dissuaded now, isn't it, the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u161	Yes, as an amendment, I must advise against it. Anyway, I'll leave it to the VVD in what way one might...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u162	Yeah, but it's just dissuaded. That's what I wanted to hear. Was that your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u163	Yeah, that's my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u164	Then why don't we just suspend for five minutes? Then we'll come back with the second term of the Chamber. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u165	There is time for a small, pointy second term. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Michon first. The question is to turn in the motions on paper in the same order as the one in which you order them, otherwise it will be chaotic. That's gonna be quite a challenge, Mrs. Michon, because you have 34, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u166	Exactly. And that in three minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u167	Well, two minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my questions. I have received an answer to all the questions I have asked in the first term. It's clear to me. As far as I am concerned, we are simply moving away from this law as soon as possible, to actually disrupt the criminal process and ensure that we break the earning model. That is what this law provides for. Mr. Chairman. I must, of course, return to the two amendments I have tabled. One amendment was attributed just to Mr Sneller. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Sneller, but that is a joint amendment. Thank you for the Minister's support for this. To put it bluntly, that is the amendment to item No. 12. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I listened to the Minister very carefully. I hear him say that this actually deserves a separate legislative process, to include this also in the broader context of intimidation. I've had to think about that for a while. I am prepared to withdraw the amendment, but I have prepared a motion that I would like to table. I really want to stress here that this fact must be criminalised as soon as possible. That must of course also be done in a careful way, let there be no misunderstanding. But I've heard the Minister say he supports that. I'd really like to hold him to that. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that doxing is increasingly occurring in the Netherlands, including aid workers, journalists, scientists and politicians, and has a major impact on the safety of these persons;]] [[noting that doxing scares people by asking for or providing or disseminating personal data of those who should be terrified;]] [[Whereas, as such, doxing is not currently punishable by the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[Whereas the police have also expressed the strong wish that doxing should be punishable;]] [[calls on the Government to consult a bill to criminalise doxing before the summer recess, then to submit it to the Council of State as soon as possible, and to refer it to the Chamber this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Sneller, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Bikker, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u169	I also hope that this broad signature will provide additional support for the Minister and his people to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u170	And what happens to your amendment? You're moving that in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u171	I am therefore withdrawing my amendment. 11 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u172	The Mihon-Derkzen amendment (Doc. 11) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u173	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u174	Thank you. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have also drawn attention to the importance of prevention in this law on the strengthening of criminal approaches to undermining crime, because we can increase punishments, but you also have to prevent young boys from becoming hardened criminals. I'm sure we'll talk about that again. That will also apply to the other point, because this also applies: you can increase penalties, but you also have to increase the chance of getting caught. We need more capacity for that. Even if we talk about that again, I do have a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the police, the justice system, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Forensic Institute and the chain of execution all run counter to financial constraints which prevent the criminal justice chain from functioning optimally and threaten the safety of society according to the Justice and Security Inspectorate;]] [[Considers that capacity expansion throughout the chain is urgently needed and should therefore be heavily invested in the criminal justice chain;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a plan to invest heavily in the entire criminal justice chain in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u176	Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, counting on the very warm support of about the entire Chamber, because I have looked carefully at all the electoral programmes; you will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u177	Then you don't really have to file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u178	No, that wouldn't have been necessary, but that support in the back is sometimes in place. You can see that, Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the measure cost story in detail. I am not saying that you should never do this, because it clashes with all the principles of justice. That's not what I meant to say. I merely think that the proposal is not sufficiently well thought out and motivated to include it in a collective act. The SP Group therefore does not support that part of the legislative proposal. That is why I am maintaining the amendment. Finally, Mr President. It took you all night. It takes some time, but then you also have some, namely a very solid legal treatment with many spokesmen. I mean that sincerely. The Minister was certainly well prepared. I don't get my way with everything, but that's fate. Mr President, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u179	You're going home whistling, I hear you. That's good to hear. Then Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u180	Yes, chairman, whistling home with such a subject behind the tooth, that's a good thing. I hope so for all of us tonight, including the Minister, who I thank for the reply and the discussion we have had. I come to a conclusion, ending in a motion, on the point of ports and port areas. The chief of the Zeehaven police himself says the following about the trespassers who are already there. These may be people who are working there and who have been bribed, but unfortunately it is not just people who succumb once. Apparently, according to the chief of the Zeehaven police, it is not only the people behind the gates on the harbour site who fail once, but also the people who are already there, such as drivers with a shady company who already have a transport permit to be there; those kinds of examples. So it's not about the person who was bought once, it's about the people who have a past, who can be there by default. We see this as a danger and a risk, because these people are about to enter that area. My second point is that if you check there, they will deviate. This was demonstrated by the Customs trial: criminals have emigrated to Antwerp. So at least temporarily is a solution 24/7. Hence my proposal, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet wishes to criminalise unlawful residence in areas of ports, airports and railway emplacements separately;]] [[having noted, however, that recent successful permanent police and customs checks in the port of Rotterdam showed that numerous drug traffickers were simply legally resident on the ground;]] [[calls on the Government to take action to prevent the legal presence of persons involved in drug smuggling in port areas and to continue its monitoring until that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u182	Then ma'am... a afterburner? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u183	I have tabled the motion on behalf of my esteemed colleague, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u184	Beautiful. I'm glad you completed that. Then Mrs Kathmann of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u185	Mr. Chairman. Just now, for the Minister's contribution, I came here a little late. That was because, when I quickly went outside to eat a sandwich, I was encouraged by an agent to conduct this conversation carefully and, above all, to tackle the undermining crime in the Netherlands. For the moment I was sitting on the corner of the Square eating a sandwich, the officer said to me, "Miss Kathmann, I have listened to your speech; a beautiful speech!" That's always good to hear from a cop. He said you can either talk about crime or witness it, because at the moment there's a robbery going on at the Kruidvat. I don't think that's 50 meters from the Lower House. So you see how slowly our neighborhoods and the center of this beautiful The Hague are taken over by scum; that is what I spoke about in my first contribution. I very much welcome the motion on doxing: an additional incentive to deal with it. I can't say better than the Minister himself. It really is a poison that undermines our rule of law. Most of my questions are contained in amendments tabled by others, or properly answered by the Minister, but that does not apply to the question of fishing licences and the possibility of doing a Bibob test. There are indeed strong signals of cocaine smuggling in the fishing industry, by Brexit and even by declining yields there. The vulnerability to crime is increasing. Again, this is certainly not the case in most fisheries, but the vulnerability is increasing. Especially as we are increasingly trying to control those ports, there is a waterbed effect. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Brexit, the ban on pulse fishing and the reduction of fishing grounds put pressure on fishing earnings;]] [[Whereas there are signs that part of professional fishing is susceptible to the influence of criminals engaged in drug smuggling and other forms of undermining crime;]] [[believes that the fisheries sector should be made resilient to the temptations of crime;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of including fishing licences under the scope of the Bibob Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u186	Mr. Chairman. I do not want to put too much perspective on Mrs Kathmann's alarming remarks about what is going on in our country, but I saw that the robbery would be a loose alarm around here. Let's hope the latter is true. Back to the bill. It is right that urgent and important questions should be raised. It is a good thing that this legislative proposal takes a number of measures. Thank you for the positive approach of the amendment to item No. 10, in which I advocate an increased level of punishment, including for police officers and extraordinary detectives. I would also like to ask a few questions which I am happy to return to in the forthcoming committee debates on drugs policy and the fight against crime that we still have ahead of us. I am also thinking of the discussion on the bill to add the new psychoactive substances. There would be a capacity problem. There is a letter on this subject at the forthcoming meeting. We are happy to discuss this further, because we believe that the legislative process should get its progress. Finally, we have also signed a number of motions. As far as doxing is concerned, I think it is quite right, precisely in view of all the dynamics surrounding modern social media, that there should be a separate criminalisation for this. I also hope, of course, that the process that has begun will lead to a beautifully fitting Dutch word for this terrible phenomenon. That's what we're all gonna breed on, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u187	I expect a lot from you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u188	Thank you, Mr President. As you would have suspected, the Christian Union Group wholeheartedly supports the approach to undermining and its criminal law approach. On one point, I would like to ask the Minister to take a small step further. Firstly, with regard to the fight against precursors of hard drugs. I really think that we should also take that step to actually criminalise new psychoactive substances in a broader article of law. I also mention the reduction of nitrous oxide. I encourage the Minister to keep it going, despite the setbacks he has experienced. To that end, I shall table a motion with Mrs Kuik. That's a cliffhanger, Chairman. Secondly, I think it is very important that combating undermining not only takes place in criminal law, but also by the community and by entrepreneurs. In the harbor we see what it's all about. The police also make a call: please, talk to shipping companies. That's why this motion, along with Mrs. Kuik. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that large and small seaports are susceptible to various forms of undermining crime, including drug crime and human trafficking;]] [[Whereas, in addition to municipalities, shipping companies, port companies and security companies are important players to counter undermining in the port area;]] [[Whereas the coordination of measures with other North Sea port cities is crucial for the prevention of relocation as indicated by the Rotterdam Seaport Police;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a structural North Sea port approach with Belgium and Germany to take coordinated measures, together with relevant parties, to combat undermining crime in and to report annually to ports and the Court on the claim and implementation to the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u190	Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have said that I sincerely believe that this is good, because we are again disrupting actions. At the same time, however, it is important that we do business and that the real drug lords, those who run away with millions, are also dealt with. At that very point I have prepared a motion together with Kuik, Michon and Van der Staaij. Hopefully the motion will be supported even more broadly later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that competition shows that both the imposition of penalties and the enforcement of penalties for serious drug offences is significantly lower in the Netherlands than in other EU Member States;]] [[Whereas the Pact for the Law and Investigation of the Police College designates that the relatively low penalty rate for serious drug offences contributes to the appeal of the Netherlands to major international drug criminals;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine in the short term how to adjust the penalty rate for serious drug crime in order to reduce the attractiveness of the Netherlands for major international drug criminals and then to come forward with proposals to this end;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out further studies on how to further reduce this attraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Kuik, Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr. Chairman. I look back at a good debate, in which we have taken clear steps in terms of the cost story and own funds research through a more detailed definition of the legislative text. I thank the Minister for that. I have a very short question on two points. The first question is about human trafficking. For example, if such a young Vietnamese climber is found, what does this bill mean? I didn't hear the Minister say that or I didn't listen very carefully. The second point I will make, Mr President, in my last seven seconds. That's the point about the mayors. I told you how important it is to me that the mayor doesn't become a sheriff. I would like to stress that following legislative proposals on undermining and the related approach, the Dutch Society of Mayors is really being asked for a clear ruling. How do they measure this and what do they think are the consequences for the office? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u192	Fine, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying and thank you to colleagues for helping to clarify this legislation. Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, we really need to take steps in relation to these psychoactive substances and the nitrous oxide. That is why I am tabling a motion to go a step further than we are now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a law is in place to bring new psychoactive substances, NPS, also known as designer drugs, under the Opium Act, and that the draft decision to add nitrous oxide to list II is also in place in the Opium Act;]] [[Whereas both designer drugs and nitrous oxide cause considerable harm to society and to health;]] [[Whereas the draft law NPS may be submitted for advice to the Council of State and the draft decision in the pending procedure;]] [[Whereas it is possible at the same time to make clear the financial implications of these proposals with regard to social costs in the absence of such a ban;]] [[calls on the government to continue both proposals in the legislative process well before the summer recess, so that they can contribute to tackling undermining as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35564-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u194	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u195	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express once again my gratitude for the really sharp and substantive way in which we have debated this evening. We do not always have to agree with each other, as long as we move forward in the interpretation and understanding. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann's speech really stirred me a bit. From the story she just told about the Kruidvat you can think of anything, even if a helicopter has to come into use. I'll be in Amsterdam and Broek in Waterland tomorrow to celebrate something completely different. At least, celebrating cannot be said, but to reflect on the policemen who were able to pick up a bunch of suspects from Belgium and France last week, in a very courageous mission. This is how we see how, unfortunately, this undermining crime also works cross-border. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go over the motions and have one more question to answer. First of all, the motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Michon-Derkzen. First of all, I would like to say to her that I have failed her, because the amendment No. 12 was hers and Mr Sneller's together. I want to make that clear. Michon-Derkzen/Sneller amendment No. 12 is an important amendment because it also places journalists in a clear position in criminal law when it comes to threats. Mr. Chairman. On the motion-Michon-Derkzen c.s. I can be very short. I appreciate the fact that the VVD also agrees with the fact that we should not now amend doxing in this bill. This bill is about other things. I therefore think it is my part of the whole that I give this motion, which expresses a clear mandate to me, to the Chamber of Justice. That's clear. Judgment of the Court of Justice means, if that motion is adopted at the vote, that before the summer recess, a legislative proposal will be consulted on the criminalisation of doxing. Mr. Chairman. The Van Nispen motion in part No. 14 asks me to draw up a plan to invest heavily in the entire criminal justice chain over the coming years. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Not because I have no sympathy for Mr Van Nispen's plea here, but it is not up to the outgoing cabinet to put this kind of really clear policy plan in place. Mr. Chairman. Also the motion in part No. 15 of Mr Eerdmans and Mr Van der Staaij would call for additional resources. For this reason alone, I must discourage her, because that is what I really think of a new cabinet. I hope, however, that Mr Eerdmans will return to this point in another debate with a new cabinet. But now I have to discourage that motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 16, on fishing licences. In the first instance, I would like to propose that they be retained. I can assure you that my colleague from LNV will come forward with a letter on this within a reasonable time. This is not my portfolio and I really should not go into it. I would therefore hope that Mrs Kathmann will say: okay, let me then hold that motion for a resolution for four weeks. Then Mr Schouten has the opportunity to come up with a letter on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mrs. Kathmann nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u197	Then the motion to part No. 17 members of Bikker and Kuik on the North Sea port approach. I'll give it to you without further ado, Room. Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mrs Bikker, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Staaij on additional research on the attraction. I'd like to give that one too. Room. Then there is the motion in part No. 19 on NPS and the nitrous oxide. I would also like to propose that the motion be retained, but I should first of all like to say that the motion should be 'calls on the government at a reasonable time' rather than 'before the summer recess', so 'calls on the government to bring both proposals forward at a reasonable time'. However, I would ask that the motion be retained in this form until after the formation, because I do not know whether the formation has been completed before the summer recess. People say it sings around that it would, but you never know it in life. I would like to hear whether Mr Kuik and Mr Bikker are prepared to do so, or else I must advise against the motion. That would be a shame, because I understand the point in substance very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u198	But then the motion is simply dissuaded, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u199	Yeah? They won't arrest her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u200	I'll take a look at the two petitioners. There's not much action in it, Mr. Secretary. Then the motion is simply dissuade, simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u201	That is a shame, of course, because you have a motion on this subject which has been rejected. If the motion is rejected, I don't know. Mr Markuszower is right, of course, to say that we have to wait and see. But if the motion is later rejected, then of course it is a waste of this legislative process. I have explained it very clearly and I am not going to do it in detail anymore. I am a outgoing minister in b a outgoing cabinet, but you would have suspected this and c, apart from the fact that I do not think that I should leave this kind of motion judgment Chamber in such a situation, should just be the means for this first. That really takes the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u202	I had not made the point myself this evening, because next week there is another debate where there is a letter on the agenda in which the Minister says: I am not going on with this legislative process. We have asked written questions about this with Mrs Bikker. But now that it comes forward, I will certainly support the motion, because I think it is a strange action by the cabinet, with all due respect, to say: because this may require enforcement efforts, we are stopping the legislative process. That can be done, as the motion actually says, in the legislation itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u203	No, you can't. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u204	For from the East, for example, we hear that mayors also say within the existing enforcement capacity: please give the opportunity to get started with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u205	Well, it's not that simple. Those mayors I talked to. If you ask around, they say, "Yes, okay, no, we're gonna need extra resources." Those mayors aren't gonna suddenly sacrifice the police capacity on other things, because that's the bottom line. Mr Van der Staaij and I have to say that I respect each other very carefully, for the good paternity of everyone else. I find it contrary to the good family-fatherhood to say in a status as a outgoing minister about a legislative process that I know is going to cost a lot of money, which I do not have: go ahead and start that legislative process. That's not how we're supposed to do it. Then we are going to raise expectations that are simply not real, because that money is not there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u206	Finally, Mr President. I would say that it is precisely up to the Chamber to say that we think it is important that this legislative process should continue. That also gives a outgoing cabinet the mandate to go further, I would say. On the contrary, it could support a legislative process that has already been put in place. In any case, this will not result in any further delay. At the moment it can enter into force, we hope that there will be another missionary cabinet that we can do further business with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u207	No. Mr Van der Staaij knows that I will not do that. I do not think that Parliament is responsible when I say as a minister that a motion has been adopted to implement a legislative process, but there is a structural lack of some 30 million. It's 20 for one and 5 or 10 for the other I say out of my head. That's also occasional money. It's all not here. For myself, that was nasty, but I was denied it. It has simply been said that these additional resources are now available in the light of corona and everything just isn't. Very nasty. Blokhuis and I have said: we will put that down urgently at the information table, but that has nothing to do with the process we have here. Then I'm not gonna start a legislative process as a minister that I know is gonna blow my head off on the future of the next cabinet. Mr Van der Staaij is one of the people who knows what the expression "shooting on the future" means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u208	I don't know him. Anyway, we're gonna go upstairs and go upstairs and go upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u209	Mr Van der Staaij and I will be drawing lots for which of us will take you separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u210	Yeah? Full of anticipation, my heart beats. The last word is on Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u211	I think there's still some room in there. That is why we had also formulated it in such a way that at least that Council of State should make an assessment and reflect the costs of society. I will simply go in consultation with the other petitioner and then you will hear before the vote whether we are holding this motion until the next debate or whether we are submitting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u212	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u213	Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind me giving you some more dust, very briefly. There are strict budgetary rules for starting an advisory process at the Council of State. I know, because I also had to fight the fight in connection with corona on the new Code of Criminal Procedure, for example. We have to tell each other things that we can actually do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u214	The motion has been dissuaded anyway, hasn't it? She may be arrested or withdrawn, or whatever, but she has been dissuaded anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u215	If she's not arrested, she'll be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u216	Clear. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thanks for all the dust. At the same time, I have also co-signed a motion which the Minister says 'I am going to start the legislative process as a matter of urgency', while no provision has yet been made for its enforcement. Doxing's gonna have to keep you, too. It'll be set in motion before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u218	Yeah, but that doesn't cost 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u219	We can discuss it for a long time. I'm gonna think about it, but I'm gonna tell the Minister that catching a little springy in the spirit of a predecessor in a party with which the minister is familiar, well-known, might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u220	The motion that I have said I am really working on, I am going to consult. I have also really justified why this costs so much money, NPS and nitrous oxide. I hate to break it to you, but let's not talk about it too long. So there really is a difference between those two. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik know that both subjects are of interest to me, but I am standing here a bit like a boxer with the hands behind my back and then the boxer should not say: I am now going to become world heavyweight champion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u221	Those are nice closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u222	I had two more questions from Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u223	Oh. I thought a piece of philosophy, that's good to sleep on. But yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u224	No, that's absolutely. Muhammad Ali was finally the athlete of the 20th century. Mr. Chairman. What do we do with that climbing Vietnamese? Of course, that point of departure relates to the illegal presence in this area. With regard to the climbing issue referred to by Mrs Bikker, I think I will say 'think', because, as you know, I should not interfere as a minister in an individual criminal case and certainly not if it has to take place in the future when a legislative proposal that is not currently in force has been adopted. It may, I say, have ended up in a very different way. But I don't know, and we can't anticipate that. Mrs Bikker also mentioned the mayor who should not be sheriff. I really want to underline that point very much. I definitely belong to that school. When I arrived, I said that shouldn't happen, and I still think so. Mayors are civilian mother, citizen father and so on for everyone. And a mayor must really be at home from all markets in that respect. That security and public order component is a heavy responsibility, but should never become a sheriff's sheriff. With the word "sheriff star," I'd like to close, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u225	That is nice, but Mr Sneller also thinks he has the last word and runs to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u226	Oh, yeah, I have to go into the precursors. I'll give you that evaluation immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u227	This really is the beautiful ending we wished for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u228	I'll admit it immediately, without a sheriff's star. That's how I ended up with the word "sheriff star."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u229	And everyone's happy. Can you do better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-27-tweedekamer-10.u230	I thank the Minister for his presence this evening. On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the three amendments and on the six or seven motions for resolutions. I shall close the sitting of 27 May 2021.
