ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on fireworks. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State. I would also like to welcome Members in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Madlener of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've said before that I'm a big fan of our fireworks tradition. When I was a kid, I enjoyed it. And now I have a 7-year-old son of my own. I hope I can light fireworks with him next New Year's Eve. I'm looking forward to it, and so is he. We like that very much, just like a lot of people throughout the Netherlands like that very much. Lighting the fireworks has, of course, recently been increasingly spoiled by reports of fireworks throwing at aid workers and that sort of thing. I don't know who does that. I suspect they are not the native Dutch. That's what I'm guessing as an old-Rotterdam resident. People who do this have to be hard on you, because they screw it up for the rest of us. But fireworks is not only a very nice tradition at a folk festival, it is also very good for a lot of middlemen. Often it's very nice shops that couldn't exist without the annual fireworks sale. And the problems with fireworks are also largely due to illegal fireworks. So I have three motions here. I'll read them. The first one I submit to support the fireworks industry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 9.4 million has been made available to compensate the fireworks industry;]] [[noting that a fixed amount of €3,500 is available per entrepreneur;]] [[noting that there are entrepreneurs who have multiple outlets and therefore miss compensation;]] [[considers that compensation should be paid quickly and in full;]] [[calls on the Government to pay out the TSVC-19 scheme per reasonable point of sale and to make hastily payment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-661]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	I wrote here "reasonable point of sale." If someone has a desk somewhere, of course they don't have to. But if they are just really full sales outlets, then I think there should be a fee for that too. Maybe I should have used the word "full." Mr. Chairman. My second motion is not about a total ban on fireworks at the turn of the year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fireworks industry was seriously affected by the overall fireworks ban during the year 2020-2021;]] [[Whereas fireworks are an important part of the New Year's Eve party and are part of the tradition of the Dutch New Year's Eve;]] [[calls on the Government not to re-establish a total ban on fireworks at the forthcoming turn of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-662]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	This is a motion I'm making on behalf of my little boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. You're running out of time. This is a two-minute debate. I would also like to focus a little on those two minutes, because we still have a couple of two-minute debates to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yes, but there are very few speakers, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yeah, but still. This is a two-minute debate, and it's not called a three-minute debate. Excuse me. I give the floor to Mr De Groot of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proper handling of the damage suffered by entrepreneurs, both by banning F3 fireworks, and by preventing fireworks sales at the turn of the year due to corona, is of great importance. Fortunately, the registration for the corona fee for the retail trade runs well. It has not become clear to the VVD when the scheme opens with regard to the compensation for storage and transport. What can these entrepreneurs rely on and when will they receive their compensation? I hear different dates about that. It is precisely these entrepreneurs who often buy in long in advance, invest in it, and have been waiting a long time for compensation. The VVD considers that it has taken long enough and assumes that the State Secretary is of the same opinion. Can it promise that the window will open before the summer recess? My second point concerns the TSRV. The VVD held a motion in November 2020 for a commitment to benefit the sector from the remaining funds from this scheme. And yet money is now flowing back from the scheme into the general budget, while the sector is experiencing bottlenecks, for example when it comes to loose fireworks or fireworks standards. Why doesn't the Secretary of State see this as a bottleneck? And why, despite the commitment, has nothing been done with this? What can the Secretary of State mean in this regard? Finally, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can also look after the end of the TSVC-19 to see if any remaining budget could resolve any remaining bottlenecks. For example, the problems of multiple point-of-sale retailers could be addressed. Mr Madlener referred to this as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr De Groot's questions on the aid scheme that has been opened up. Can people get to that as soon as possible? I am also looking forward to the latest state of play with regard to the talks with Europe on this issue. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the ban on fireworks. Last year it was decided to ban F3 fireworks and heavy fireworks from category F2 for consumers. The CDA Group has been able to support this decision, provided that there is also strong enforcement. Last year, of course, there was a total ban on fireworks, but there was also a lack of enforcement. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the government decided to ban F3 fireworks, blasting cords, flares and single shot tubes, also known as single shots, for consumers;]] [[Considering that Special Investigation Officers (Boas) in domain 1 (public space) are competent to enforce criminal law in respect of the ignition of fireworks outside the permitted time limits, but are not competent to enforce criminal law in respect of the possession of illegal fireworks;]] [[Whereas it is very important that the partial ban on fireworks is in practice enforceable and that this is not the case in the case of "wait for it to explode";]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the desirability of making boas in domain 1 also competent for the enforcement of possession of illegal fireworks in order to strengthen the enforcement of illegal fireworks, without prejudice to the relationship between police and boas, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budget handling of Justice and Security of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-663]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u11	I would like to ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to the Secretary of State so that she can give an appreciation to a number of motions and answer a single question. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for the questions and the motions. The motion in part No. 661 by Mr Madlener is actually asking for a payment per point of sale, but the flat-rate payment was really meant for really small entrepreneurs. That is also included in the scheme. Unfortunately, I cannot change that at the moment. So I'm afraid I'm going to have to discourage these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u13	This raises a question for Mr Madlener, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u14	Yes, Mr President, because the Secretary of State mentions the argument that it was meant for really small entrepreneurs. I don't understand that argument. Who cares if they're small businesses or not? If you have multiple outlets, you just have more costs. That's what this is all about, isn't it? Well, then it's fair to get a fee per point of sale, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u15	A total amount has been agreed in the estimation of this agreement. Part of it was completed by the existing corona schemes. At that time there was a certain amount of money left to be paid through this specific fireworks scheme. The Chamber has always asked me to pay particular attention to the really small entrepreneur. At that time, that was included in the scheme. Consultation has also taken place and no comments have been made, although this point has already been made. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot change that now with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr Madlener, finally? No. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Madlener motion in part No. 662 on a general ban on fireworks. The one-off ban last year. The law amendment that was related to covid has expired. With this, this has come to an end and the old law has come to pass again. There is no general ban on fireworks and there is no plan for that at the moment. This motion is superfluous because the cabinet has not communicated that intention to the Chamber. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr De Groot has a... I shall first give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV, because it is about his motion. Would you mind going to the other microphone, Mr. Madlener? Thank you. You do a lot of work for the messengers! Go ahead. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u19	Now they're all infected, but I've already been vaccinated! That's okay. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says that the Cabinet has no plans to re-establish the fireworks ban for the coming New Year's Eve. Just to be safe: all fireworks buyers and all Dutch people who enjoy fireworks can therefore assume that there will be just consumer fireworks in the coming year. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u20	That's the law right now, unless Chamber and Cabinet come to something else in the meantime. At the moment, this fireworks can be arranged according to the law as it now stands, and of course we all have to adhere to it. You're filing a motion. Imagine if that motion were rejected. Then that could be interpreted as a different signal. So that's why I'm dissuading the motion. At the moment, the law is simply so that there is no total ban on fireworks before this year's turn. So if you do want to do that, you're gonna have to change the law first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u21	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u22	I'm always a little on my guard, because the Secretary of State keeps repeating "at the moment," "at the moment." So there's nothing in preparation? Nothing's coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u23	No. There's nothing in preparation and nothing's coming. That is why the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u24	Okay. That's clear. Then I withdraw my motion. Then this year we can enjoy a New Year with fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u25	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u26	My interruption was actually about the previous motion, but I also asked questions to the Secretary of State. They're all about the same subject, but I'll wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u27	I'm definitely gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u28	Sure. The Secretary of State is going to answer the questions later. Then the motion to part No. 663.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u29	I could also answer Mr De Groot's questions first. I had them in that order, but if you'd like me to deal first with the motion in part No. 663, then I do that first and then I come to the questions that have actually been asked. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Palland has put a number of questions in her motion. It asks whether the Court can be informed of this for the examination of the budget of Justice and Security. That is indeed the domain within which this motion is based. So I will pass this motion on to my colleague for an appreciation, because this really falls within the domain of JenV. That way, I'll make sure there's an appreciation. A number of questions had been asked by Mr De Groot. First of all, he asks: how is the transport arrangements being handled? The talks in Brussels are progressing constructively. We expect to be able to open the TSVC-19, storage and transport desk on 1 September. That is around the summer, if I may translate it that way, so quite in line with the hopes expressed by the Chamber. In that case, RVO will pay the advances for 2022. That'll be 80%. So there is also a concrete view of that money. A further question from Mr De Groot. He said, "You draw up such an arrangement. You do that in view of the total budget that is available, and then there is still some money left. Can't that still be spent on bottlenecks for entrepreneurs?" I get the question. At the same time, I am simply bound by the general rules that the Ministry of Finance applies to such schemes: if money is left, it goes back to the general funds. We cannot therefore, with retroactive effect, adapt a scheme in order to achieve a different benefit. You would then have to make a new arrangement to pay out the money on a decent basis. That's not foreseen right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u30	I would like to ask a supplementary question. This was discussed in November 2020. At that time, for example, the example of fireworks standards was also mentioned in the regulation. Now you're actually saying that I can't look wider than what I've done now, so I can't look at loose fireworks or fireworks standards right now, so I can't even pay for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u31	No, I didn't. We have discussed this with Finance on the basis of the questions, but the rules are simply that what is left of such a scheme flows back to the general funds. Those are just the rules of the empire we have before that. Furthermore, the fireworks standards specifically mentioned in the first regulation. At that time, on the basis of a lump sum, it was ensured that there was at least some kind of compensation. That may not have fully covered it for all entrepreneurs. I think that's real, too. But unless a new arrangement is really being made, I can't just make extra money. Mr President, I believe that those were the questions and motions of the Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-10.u33	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment so the other spokesmen can come in. I can hear them!
