ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the third term of the proposal for a law of the Member Verhoeven regulating a process of balancing the use of vulnerabilities in automated works by the public authorities, Section 35257. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Verhoeven. I would also like to welcome his supporter, Mr Olivier Schmidt. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. They will act as advisers to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 18 June 2020. The continuation was on September 23rd. And after 133 days, hopefully, we can come to the conclusion of this law. I see that Mr Verhoeven is looking a bit difficult, but I know he can and that he is going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66, whom I see as the only speaker on my list. Oh, Mrs. Buitenweg too? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, thank you. Let me take this opportunity, since it is probably the last time that Mr Verhoeven and I will address each other in this Chamber to thank him for more than eight years of collegiality. He's also my roommate for five years. And you know from experience, Mr President, that this is not always easy, but that it is also a party. So, Kees, thank you so much. Mr. Chairman. I have a question and it is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, and that is the crucial question: is the applicant's amended proposal workable for the services, for the AIVD and STUDY? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Madam President. I had heard the debate yesterday and I understood that you had problems with Mr Verhoeven's gaze at the time, but I can say that although sometimes his gaze has been tormented, I have come to know him as an extremely constructive colleague. I too would like to thank him very much for his cooperation in recent years, especially in the area of digitalisation. We now have the third term. Last time, we changed everything in terms of content. I also tabled a motion on a framework for consideration at that time. That is a motion which was then given to the Court of Justice by the Minister of JenV. I would therefore like to hear from him now how he sees my motion in relation to the legislative proposal and the amendments that have now been tabled by Mr Verhoeven. My question to Mr Verhoeven is how I should see this new, amended bill, also in relation to my motion. How does he see the further treatment of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I am looking at Mr Verhoeven, of course, as the first speaker. Then the Minister. I don't know if you'd like to discuss it first. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm gonna suspend for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Half an hour, no. Maybe you could tune in who wants to start first. It's so neat that you're starting as initiator, Mr Verhoeven. It's your proposal. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a history of almost seven months or perhaps even more with regard to this bill. The first part of the discussion made it very clear, both from the Chamber and the Cabinet, that the part in which I propose an assessment body in the original legislative proposal raises many objections. I thought I should listen to that. In this letter of amendment, I have decided to remove that assessment body, as I say in reply to Mrs Buitenweg. The problems raised were mentioned by so many people that I said we should not do so here, although there is in other countries. This is a step in the direction of critical parliamentary groups and the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. That's what got us into a crazy situation. A motion has been tabled by GroenLinks asking for a single framework for all these different organisations: police, Defense and the intelligence services. That motion was given by the Cabinet's judgment Chamber, because that is in part the direction in which the Cabinet moves. I think the Minister himself can say this better than I say it on his behalf in the light of what he said earlier. Because I, as initiator, really want a legal framework that is uniform for all organisations, I think it is better to do so through law. That is why I have amended the proposal in such a way that it corresponds in substance to what the motion says, only in a law. You could say: instead of a motion there will be an amendment or a bill; that is more compelling. That is my response to what Mrs Buitenweg has asked. Furthermore, I can say that I would very much like us to be able to take a step here in all possible ways, because I really believe that it is necessary for the safety of the Netherlands to make a proper assessment of the use of these unknown vulnerabilities by the Defense, the Police and the intelligence services. That's what I'm trying to do. I understand the opinion of the cabinet on my modified proposal, but the issues raised by the cabinet in addition to the appreciation for my adjustment are such that we should be able to find a way to settle something here on a legal basis. That is why I wanted this third term anyway. Thank you, Mr President. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	And I thank my fellow Members for their very kind words and for keeping my kind words short forever. I say this to you all the same. Mr Van Meenen's question was not addressed to me, but to the Minister. That's why I don't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yeah, that's right. Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Mr Van Meenen's question was addressed to the Minister for the Interior. I'm giving her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now that it is a bit of a time to thank Mr Verhoeven, I would like to join in. The whole time he's in the Chamber, he's been fighting for issues that have to do with our digital security. This is crucial at this time; a rapidly digitalising society needs control. I congratulate Mr Verhoeven on that. We have already discussed Mr Verhoeven's own-initiative proposal on the use of unknown vulnerabilities. Mr Grapperhaus and I have raised a number of objections on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Verhoeven has amended his proposal accordingly. The Chamber received a letter from the Cabinet on this matter. In addition, I would like to come straight to Mr Van Meenen's question: is the proposal workable for the services? You can see this in the Juice of the Cabinet. The new proposal has removed really important objections, for which I thank you, but still have some reservations, of which I would like to mention two. Firstly, this proposal still requires very sensitive operational information to be shared with third parties. That's very close. Article 3 of the proposal contains a possibility clause. It states that the administrative body may decide not to disclose an unknown vulnerability, or to disclose it only to those involved in managing the vital infrastructure. That's Article 3 (2). That can-determine is essential. This means that, in the final case, there is no need for publication. You'd say things have been going really well so far. No problem. Article 3 (3) is not a "can" provision, but a "must" provision. On the basis of that paragraph, the administrative authority must consult with representatives of those involved in managing vital infrastructure before taking a decision on the publication. That could be problematic. When you talk to those representatives, you will also have to reveal the vulnerability that is at stake. Otherwise, these people can't do so much with it. In some cases, this may be highly sensitive operational information that cannot be shared with third parties, or at least not at that time or not yet. These are the exceptional cases, but they are precisely those where national security is at stake for the services. That consideration will be made. This creates additional risks for the operation and possibly also for cooperation with other services, and thus risks to safety. Secondly, the organisations involved have a balancing framework. That's very important. This raises the question of what you add to this particular point. Mr. Chairman. That's how we look at it. Important objections have been removed. There is still a problem with this specific section for the services. The other question was put to Mr Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Well, let's trade places, then, but clean up first. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr President, thank you. You received a letter from the cabinet yesterday expressing the appreciation. My colleague from BZK has already dealt with this. I agree that the cabinet still has important objections to this bill in terms of the double framework of the investigation process, with potentially divergent decisions. Mrs Buitenweg's motion would not lead to duplication on this point. Contrary to Mr Verhoeven's assumption, the police and the OM do indeed have a balancing framework for reporting unknown vulnerabilities. I would like to stress that once again. For the sake of time, too, I am not going to elaborate it in detail. That's already been done in the letter. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, sharing sensitive information with representatives from vital sectors presents real operational risks. My colleague mentioned that. Thirdly, in the letter, the cabinet indicated that further standardisation of internal penetration software at AMvB is unnecessary. According to the motion-Recourt, unknown vulnerabilities or incoming software that may use them are already being deployed in the extreme even now. Furthermore, the coalition agreement includes agreements on the purchase of intruder software by the police. This arrangement has been confirmed in the parliamentary treatment of the Computer Crime Act III. All in all, respect for the fact that Mr Verhoeven has taken this initiative. I would like to emphasise that. I keep nice memories of how Mr Verhoeven and I, especially in the First Chamber, have worked together on his own initiative proposal concerning the desecration of majesty. That was the way it can go between Cabinet and Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I can hear your phone ringing. I want him!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. President, excuse me. I've had about four screens going off at the same time lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	Or Mrs. Buitenweg, who's also interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	It could have been the Council of State. You never know. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say that. I repeat once again that the cabinet is mainly opposed to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	I see Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. Would you like to ask me a question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	I don't have any interruptions. I would just like to thank Mr Verhoeven for his hard work and commitment along these lines. That seems to me to be so neat, even since I am here on behalf of my colleague Jan Middendorp. Unfortunately, in view of the letter from the cabinet and the explanations given by the directors, we will not support this proposal. But thank you so much for all the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. Mr Verhoeven would like to say a few final words. I'm fine with that. I'm not gonna interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, also read the letter from the cabinet. I can also hear the explanations given by both heads of government. That's obvious, too. I'll be very brief. What I have been trying to do is, instead of a set of rules, or by a motion tabled in the Chamber which has led to a guide to the services, or by other regimes in force in the police and defence sectors, to regulate this uniform. Now it's all arranged in different ways. It is said everywhere that there is already a guideline and that there is already a balancing framework. I would like that to be regulated in one law. In my opinion, all the other issues that come up in this letter, which cause sanding or problems, are soluble. I'll take another good look at my proposal. I'll see if I can still adjust it. Otherwise, we'll have a vote next week. But I will look once again at the possibilities that exist to meet what has been said. At the same time, it is really my opinion that this remains so that it is not yet regulated in a way that is so uniform and robust that we also keep the vital infrastructure safe here. We have seen in the United States that careless use of unknown vulnerabilities can lead to enormous damage to society. I will listen carefully, once again, to what the cabinet said on the parts. I am very mobile in this area, perhaps a little more mobile than usual, because I really want to take a small step forward. I thank you for all the effort and the kind words, but I really want to achieve a result here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I too would like to thank you very much for the initiative proposal. We all know how hard it is to play your controlling role as a Member of Parliament with little support, let alone to prepare a legislative proposal. Of course, thanks also to the support, Mr Schmidt. I'm not going to say goodbye to you, Mr Verhoeven; I don't really want that. That comes at some point. I'm saving everything up until the last minute. So I'm keeping the tension in. For now, I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven, the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Schmidt, and also the Members of Parliament. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	Next week, I hope, we will vote on that. I'm going to the hammer pieces now. You don't have to be there. That's just some kind of domestic announcement. And no, Mr Verhoeven, as long as I haven't suspended, you can't go to the cabinet in section K. But I'll be done in a minute.
