ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the reopening of the debate on motion 35572, letter J, Mr Van Rooijen's motion for a resolution on raising the elderly discount. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration to the Upper House. This afternoon, the Chamber granted leave for a short third time to amend the said motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their willingness to give me permission for a third term of the Tax Plan, which was already discussed here last year. A little new state law, maybe. All the more special is the permission. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has made time available for this in these busy weeks. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State, the Cabinet and all the parties in the Chamber are well advised to consider the question as to what to do if inflation continues to increase sharply this year. We are now seeing the price increases according to official inflation rates actually rising in the second quarter. The inflation rate does not even include the rise in house prices. The risks of the ECB's policy become visible. I tell you, on the basis of the experience of the 1970s, that this can be a shock. Rising inflation undermines the purchasing power of all households, but especially of pensioners, because they only receive indexation on part of their income. The rest of the Netherlands, at least by far the most, are indexed on the basis of total income. Specifically, at the end of May, this year's price increase was 2.1%, instead of the 1.4% forecast by the Planning Bureau in September 2020. This extra rise in prices of 0.7% of GDP, which is really much of a debt, means an additional fall in purchasing power of €140 on an income of €20,000, consisting of AOW and a small pension. Last year's estimate of the Planning Bureau contained a small plus of 0.4%, which has now become a significant minus. As only pensioners with a small pension of next to AOW €9,000 are already getting worse. I ask the Secretary of State how much inflation will increase in 2021, on top of the previous estimate, to push the cabinet to take additional measures to improve the purchasing power of pensioners. After all, purchasing power is based on an outdated inflation estimate, on which the indexing of the AOW is also based and the supplementary pension is not indexed at all. 2021 is a lost year for the purchasing power of pensioners: well in the min. Nor will pensions be indexed in 2022, Minister Koolmees replied to me during the oral consultation on the new pension system in this Chamber on 15 June. For 2022, the Plan Bureau is now expecting an increase of 1.8% in June. Historically high in recent years, reducing the purchasing power of a pension of €10,000 by €200 again. For higher pensions, of course, the decline is much greater. I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to substantially increase the retirement allowance for 2022, given the significant increase in the price this year of 0.7% and the estimated price increase of almost 2% in 2022. In our view, "Substantial" means an increase of €300 to €400. Of course, then the cover. In our opinion, this will be possible in the discussion within the cabinet of a less large increase in the labour cut in 2022. That discount was increased in the years 2019 to 2021, according to the notes to the Tax Plan, by €1,000 in three years, while the elderly discount was paid with a tip of €100 in those three years. I await the Secretary of State's reply with interest. I would like to point out that the budget for the reduction in working time is 24 billion and the elderly discount is only 4 billion, although, of course, it is a smaller group. Per €100, an increase in the elderly discount costs 170 million and the employment discount costs 720 million. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u4	Mr. Van Rooijen, you have requested a short third term for the filing of an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u6	You are now asking a lot of questions to the Secretary of State, but that is not what is on the agenda. It says on the agenda that you are now tabling an amended motion. For that, the Chamber granted you leave of absence. I'm actually missing that modified motion in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u7	I've got it for me, Mr. Chairman. I brought it with me, so I'd like to read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u8	If you'd like to file it, please. For that reason, the Chamber has given you leave, not for all questions and a debate, but only for that amended motion. I'm also asking the Secretary of State to go into that alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u9	That is excellent, Mr President, but I think that the support of the motion also brings the Secretary of State to a better balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u10	The Van Rooijen motion (, letter) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the improvement in purchasing power in 2021 for pensioners is low;]] [[Calls on the Government to substantially increase the elderly discount as of 1 January 2022 in the Tax Plan 2022 as the purchasing power development for pensioners in the first and in particular the second quarter of 2021 is significantly lagging behind the CPB estimate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355722-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I just arrived in the light and I was somewhat displaced at the time. I spent many nights here in December last year in the dark during the treatment of the Tax Plan. I'm glad to be back here. There are also many motions by Mr Van Rooijen, so little is changing. This motion was still there. That's right. Mr Van Rooijen has slightly modified the motion. I will say something about that and then I will give my opinion on it. It is right that inflation should rise. That's no secret. It is also correct for Mr Van Rooijen to say that, of course, this is cut in for purchasing power. This is because contract wages do not adapt directly and pensions do not adapt directly. He speaks in the operative part of the motion... no, he doesn't in the motion, but I'll give you the numbers from the Vice-President. Pensioners are now estimated to be -0.2 for next year. He is therefore right to say that, in the first half of the year, the increase in inflation has been disappointing for all, not just for pensioners. Now, in this country, we have a good tradition of proposing to each other in the Cabinet in August that we look at the purchasing power of the current year and the coming year. This is, of course, mostly about the coming year, but then you can also often compensate a little for the current year. We'll do that balanced. We are not only looking at the purchasing power of older people or pensioners, but we are looking at purchasing power for all groups. We will do the same this year, even though we are double-demissionary, we will look into that. I can imagine that the cabinet is going to spend some time on the fact that these are not flourishing purchasing power figures. Mr Van Rooijen is right about that. It will also look at instruments such as the old age discount. What Mr Van Rooijen says about this is also correct. But I shall come to the essence of tonight's action here. I am going to discourage this motion on two points. Firstly, the government is now asking for an instrument to be used for a group. That's not how we do it. We are going to look at the total purchasing power figures in August and then we are looking at all groups, in which pensioners also play a role. Secondly, as Mr Van Rooijen himself said, this motion does not contain any cover. Yeah, well, cover from the employment discount, I understand that, but then there's another part of this Chamber that doesn't agree with that again. That is precisely why we have this wonderful process in August, where we are trying to make a balanced picture with each other. All in all, I must discourage this motion on two grounds. One, we're looking at the total. Two: the motion is uncovered in this form. This does not mean that Mr Van Rooijen's point of view, namely that the purchasing power of older people is under pressure from high inflation, is not a correct point. That's not going to deny the Cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-06-eerstekamer-12.u13	I propose that we vote on the amended motion next week. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
