ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then we need the next debate. That is a two-minute debate on child abuse and sexual violence, following a committee debate that took place on 16 September. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Members. All the Members who have signed up to speak also attended that committee debate. I would ask them not to repeat the whole debate, especially since we are in the middle of budgetary discussions and we are going on for quite a long time in the evening. So I'd like to keep it compact. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Van der Werf will speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The urgency of helping victims of sexual violence was widely shared in our debate. At the time, I asked the Minister to respond to a call from various organisations. That call was: let's go to a countrywide entrance, a kind of first aid to sexual violence, where victims are helped further towards the right aid. Whether that's a doctor, a lawyer, a cop or a psychologist or all four at the same time, that's a good place to be judged. This ensures that people find their way to the right place, an idea that is widely worn on the safety side but also on the care side. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that around 100,000 people are victims of sexual violence every year, that 1 in 8 women and 1 in 25 men have ever been raped, and that 1 in 3 children under 18 have experienced some form of sexual abuse;]] [[whereas the police are the first point of contact for some of the victims of sexual violence, but not in all cases the request for assistance from a victim is a matter for the police;]] [[Whereas the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children, Rutgers, Amnesty International and the Centre for Sexual Violence have made a joint call for the creation of a single entry for child abuse and sexual violence which also functions as a first aid to sexual violence;]] [[Considering that there is also a desire on the part of the police and the prosecution to refer victims of sexual harassment to one nationwide point;]] [[Considers that assistance to victims of sexual violence is now too fragmented and that the government has a responsibility to provide better assistance to these victims;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what is necessary to realise this idea, which parties are prepared to cooperate and what implications this would have for the existing organisations where victims of sexual violence can now go to, and to inform the Court of Justice in spring 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Werf, Michon-Derkzen, Van Nispen, Westerveld and Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Child abuse is disgusting and needs to be tackled vigorously. When this two-minute debate was requested, I intended to table a motion on the budget of the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse, but that has now been settled. That is really very nice, because we have been working on this for years. Also good news is that the new law on vice is not being postponed. We found a budget for this. That's good. That is what we in the Chamber have been calling for. I do have one more question about the planning: how fast can this happen? This can't take until 2024, I hope. One more comment on organized sadistic child abuse. Together with the PvdA and GroenLinks, the SP has previously submitted a motion to investigate nature and size independently, involving experiences of survivors and their therapists. That motion is just like a house. But it is true that victims and a number of survivors are concerned about it: is this all going to be okay? They don't all have faith in it. Why, for example, is it necessary for the investigation to go to the Minister first? Why can't we go straight to the room? Is the Minister at least prepared to say that no letter will be changed to that investigation? However, I am not in favour of calling for a review of this investigation or a motion for a resolution. I don't think that's gonna help progress. But what can the Minister do to remove mistrust and ensure the independence of the investigation? I have one more motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is indigestible that victims of sexual harassment often have to wait months, sometimes years, for their case to be dealt with;]] [[believes that the authorities should ensure that victims, especially those of such serious crimes, are helped more quickly and more effectively and that perpetrators are brought to justice more quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to take immediate action to reduce lead times in sex cases, specifically in cases of sexual assault, fornication with minors and rape,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Kuik, Bikker and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am therefore tabling this motion on the reduction of lead times, because there is now finally an extra budget. I also know that a long time has been called for from the Chamber. But the most important thing people need when they experience something so horrible is that their business isn't gonna be on the line for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to start with a question about the committee that is going to investigate organized sadistic abuse. We are getting the same signals; therapists, but also victims, are concerned about the independence of this committee. I agree with Mr Van Nispen's questions. And I would also like to ask the Minister what he can do to ensure that confidence in this committee is restored. For example, can he talk about this with those involved? Then I have another question about proana sites and suicide fora. These are places where people, who are often still underage, are encouraged to self-destructive behavior. You will be older than a child, for example, who is already insecure and has problems, and who is then encouraged to starve and find all kinds of tips on these websites. Or people are even encouraged to come to suicide. Of course, that has incredibly bad consequences. We also believe that the government should not make this circular movement at this time, in which more and more online takes place. We must see what we can do to prevent this from happening. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas proana websites and suicide fora are currently generally outside the limits of existing legal definitions and thus the deliberate harm to the physical and mental health of vulnerable young people and young adults remains unpunished;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for the adaptation of the Code of Criminal Law to criminalise acts deliberately targeting the physical and mental health of vulnerable young people and young adults, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr President. In the two-minute debate, I would have liked to ask the Minister to do everything in his power to find sufficient means to pursue this very important law on sexual offences as quickly as possible. A week after we spoke, however, the Hermans motion was tabled and adopted a week later, with which we found the funds. This is a very important point. I have been hard on this because I find it incredibly important that we proceed with this law as soon as possible. We must now criminalise street harassment and we must also work on modernising the rape crime. Like previous speakers, I would like to ask the Minister to bring this law to the Chamber as a matter of urgency and to see if there is any further acceleration in that process. The money is there now, so we have no reason to discuss this with each other soon. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister about the bill on criminalising the possession of pedigree handbooks. In the committee debate, we briefly discussed this. That is the basis of a motion tabled by my colleague Mr Van Wijngaarden in February 2020. Again, we are waiting for the bill. My group has supported Mrs Van der Werf's motion on the window and will support Mrs Kuik's motion from the CDA. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mrs Kuik. She speaks on behalf of the Christian-Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr President, thank you. This minister is absolutely certain: sex against the will is rape. He has made it his spearhead to modernise current vice legislation. And yes, then you have a missionary status and you can't just say "we're gonna get that money." That's what the Room is for. I'm glad we arranged that as a room together. I wonder when we can deal with this law here. Mr. Chairman. There are men, so-called proana coaches, who further destroy girls with eating disorders by losing even more weight, with the aim of obtaining nude images. A few times this also leads to physical sexual abuse. These are extra vulnerable young people because of the disease. These men seem to get away with this with impunity. We need an online search strategy to protect these girls from these men. My colleague from the Christian Union has mentioned this before. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Graaf c.s. motion, which calls for the development of an online search strategy, has still not been implemented;]] [[noting that the Minister once again stated the intention that the investigation should be stepped up without indicating for the time being how or when this would be feasible;]] [[noting that the problem of vulnerable minors who may be the victims of abuse and/or exploitation online is still equally urgent;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to developing an online search strategy, to indicate how this relates to available capacity, and to inform the Court of Justice of this within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Bikker, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I agree with the points made by Mr Van Nispen about the research into ritual sadistic abuse that Argos came up with and where your neck hairs stand up. A motion for a resolution on this subject has been adopted with broad support. It is important that this inquiry should come to the Chamber and that misunderstandings about its independence should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you very much for your input. Finally, Mr Van Meijeren will be the last speaker of the Chamber to speak on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is now so much evidence on the table that sadistic ritual child abuse in general or satanic ritual child abuse in particular also occurs in the Netherlands, that fortunately there is no doubt about it anymore. But there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the exact nature and extent of this. That is why, at the request of the House of Representatives, an investigation has been initiated into this horrific phenomenon. However, the way in which this investigation is taking place is not right. It takes place under the absolute control of the Ministry of Justice, while officials from that Ministry are also accused by many victims. If the current committee of inquiry is to carry out the investigation, it is already doomed to fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	On the internet you often have a disclaimer on videos, such as: beware, here is not quite the truth. We don't have that disclaimer here in the Chamber, but it's also up to us to give it. I would like to point out that Mr Van Meijeren is now proposing something that he does not support. There are scientists who are going to conduct an investigation. I think it's pretty big words to say that this is not independent. Then Mr Van Meijeren must also come up with evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	The main argument I have just mentioned is that the investigation is carried out under the absolute control of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice has set up an inquiry committee and appointed the chairman and all its other members. The victims repeatedly indicate that high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Justice would also be involved in this phenomenon. That is why the investigation is not independent in advance. There's no pin to get in there. As long as this investigation is carried out under supervision and under absolute control of the Ministry of Justice, it is not independent. One final remark: this is not just my analysis; the entire Chamber, including Mrs Kuik, has received a letter of fire from the victims' representatives, including a group of twenty ggz-handlers, all of whom, for precisely this reason, state that this investigation must be carried out independently of the Ministry of Justice. As long as the Minister of Justice exercises control over the way that investigation is carried out, it is by definition not independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	I don't think that's right. As a chamber, we have tabled a motion instructing the cabinet to set up a committee to conduct independent investigations. It's got scientists in it. They can do their job independently, so I would also like to make it very clear to the victims that they can tell their story here and that this is the time to get the best picture of this and to see where we can help them. I think it is important to have noticed this here because the image is emerging, including towards the victims, as if it were not for them. But it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	It is precisely the victims who have expressed a cry for help. The victims state: we cannot speak freely for this committee. Mrs Kuik can say that this committee is independent, but the question of whether such an investigation is of any use is, or is not, what Mrs Kuik thinks of it, but whether the victims dare to speak freely before that committee. That's what this is about. The victims say they can't speak freely before this committee. For the victims, I'll take it up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Meijeren continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	I really need to remind the public that the deal in this house is that you should not show consent or the opposite. That's what I said. I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government was requested by a motion to conduct an independent investigation into the nature and extent of organised sadistic abuse of children;]] [[noting that, in carrying out this motion, the Minister of Justice has set up an inquiry committee and appointed all its members;]] [[noting that, of course, senior officials of the Ministry of Justice are also accused of this abuse;]] [[Considering that a group of victims' representatives, including twenty ggz-handlers, sounded the alarm clock in a letter of fire about the lack of independence of that committee;]] [[Whereas the usefulness of an investigation into such abuse falls or stands in the confidence of victims in the committee, so that they can speak safely and freely, including possible abuse by senior officials;]] [[calls on the Government to dissolve the current Commission and to set up a new Commission, taking into account the conditions set out in the letter of fire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a point of order before I go into any of your chambers. Mr Van Meijeren has said that senior officials of my ministry are accused of being involved in serious sexual crimes. I really want by the end of this half hour name, horse, and I know a lot of what those things are called, and I want that substanceed, too. Because I really have to say that there are limits. I have had to take it up a few times for officials of mine who had really done nothing wrong and were thrown at their heads in this building extremely unpleasant things. I don't accept this. I'll tell the whole room. I just really don't accept it. So I don't know how we're gonna solve that, because I think you're gonna have another debate with me later. I see that everyone stays calm, but I find this in a state governed by the rule of law vile!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	This is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yes, this is a point of order. If I'm the only one who thinks so, let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	This isn't going well. I hear a lot of noise from the audience. I would like the Minister to stand up for his officials, but I do not think it is wise to address the whole Chamber. One of the speakers said something about this. I now give him the opportunity to respond to this. But we are not going to have a whole debate here in which the government calls the Chamber to account, because that is not the way things are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr Van Meijeren has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	As I indicated, I express the concerns outlined in a comprehensive letter of fire by the victims' representatives. That letter of fire also received the Minister. He has not yet responded to this today. So instead of the Minister taking the concerns of these victims seriously, he says: then I want to hear names and names too. That is completely out of place. In fact, when I mention officials' names, it is the same minister who says that I should not mention civil servants' names here. I'm not saying I know exactly which officials have done what. They're being accused of it. That's a definite fact. The nature and scope must be examined, and this must be done independently of the Ministry of Justice, otherwise there will be no point in this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'm not calling your Chamber to account. I can't do that at all. But I'm just saying in all honesty, and I'm making that a point of order: if you're making such a serious accusation in a debate, then you're really gonna have to make it substantial. I would like to make a serious comment on a number of points that have been raised on this subject, but I find it very difficult to start with such an unfounded accusation. Anyway, if we don't get into that, I'll go into those things now. I'm gonna wonder if it makes sense to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	If I were to state that I could at the moment mention the exact names of the officials concerned with absolute certainty, I would not, of course, ask for an inquiry either. I am asking for an investigation because this phenomenon needs to be brought to the fore. Let me close this point with a counter-question. Why doesn't the Minister respond to the burn notice he received to the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	I will answer the questions put by your Members and the motions that have been tabled. Then I'll start with the motion in part No. 230. That is Mrs Van der Werf's motion. I would suggest that Mrs van der Werf's motion be appreciated by the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State of VWS in a letter, because that is outside my policy area. That's the motion on centralizing victim care and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	I understand that, because if it is not in this minister's policy area, it is of course difficult to judge it now. In view of the urgency of the call, I would ask him not to wait for weeks, because I would actually like the motion to be put to the vote on Tuesday. So I'd really appreciate it if you could hurry up with that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes. Well, I don't even know if there's a rush, 'cause that's six more days. But on behalf of two people who are not here, I can promise that we will do so before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	For the record, if I fail to do so, I will interpret the Minister's words in such a way as to discourage the motion. But we're assuming that that letter will be here in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	No. That letter is on time, but should it be the case that both colleagues will be in complete disarray until Tuesday, I would suggest that the motion be held. But that letter is really gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	Fine. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	The motion in part No. 231, on reducing lead times in sex cases, is support of policies. As far as I am concerned, this motion by Mr Van Nispen and others qualifys. Then as Judgement Chamber. Now the motion in part No. 232 by Mrs Westerveld. Also in conjunction with the motion in part No. 233 I would like to ask whether I can take the motion in such a way as to ask the government to investigate the criminalisation of these behaviours. I can also say straight away that we will then return to that investigation within three months. I'm just gonna hop on a motion to the motion in part No. 233, because in Mrs Kuik's motion on prioritising the development of an online search strategy, she asks that the Chamber be informed within three months. Well, those three months have also been given to Mrs Westerveld, so I would like to leave Mrs Kuik's motion to judge Chamber. And only to Mrs Westerveld can she amend that motion in this way: first investigate the criminalisation of these behaviours and what is possible with them, and within three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	I think that's fine in itself. The reason why we formulated this motion in this way is that the Minister himself said in the debate that it is in the Chamber, that we can now see how we can deal with it, because many of the issues on proana websites are beyond the limits of existing legal definitions of crime. So I took those words as: if your Chamber so wishes, then we can change the law accordingly. That is why we have written the motion down in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	Perhaps a brief response from the Minister, and then Mrs Westerveld says if she wants to continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	She can arrest her, too. But no, adjusting was my plea, because then we can do it with that online strategy, and then I also have a thoughtful story for how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	We're going to amend the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	Fine. Then this judgment gets Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a proposal. Then I have a number of questions from members Van Nispen and Michon I thought, I'll see who's all on the investigation into ritual abuse. Your Chamber asked the cabinet to set up a committee to do so by way of motion. And yes, then we will have to formally set up that committee. Whoever is on that committee then is just a signature, but not really a substantive assessment of me, assuming that they are just the right experts. I would suggest that this committee should have an introduction to your standing committee. Then you can test for yourself what you think of that. I think that's really the only way to do that, because a new assignment means another committee formally appointed by the cabinet, because that's what you're asking the cabinet to do. And I have a complete distance from that, Mr President, quite frankly. So I think that independence is really guaranteed, but your Chamber may take that opportunity to just speak to them in the context of the briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	To avoid misunderstandings, I did not ask for a new committee. I have asked this question, and I have noticed that there are people who doubt the independence of this committee. Those signals have reached us. My question was: what is the Minister going to do to remove these doubts? And quite specifically, I asked the Minister: one of the reasons why they distrust this is that the investigation is going to the Minister first. I asked: can the investigation then suddenly be sent to the Chamber? Because what would be the problem with that? And can I at least assume that I have also requested that the Minister can guarantee that no letter of inquiry will be changed under the influence of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	The latter never happens. I think I'm going to say things a little more clearly. We know that. There is no way that if such an investigation comes to an end, the Minister will say again: I am going to strip out whole pieces of it. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen now. In the context of your question as you have just asked, I am in any case prepared to pass on this invitation from your Chamber to your Chamber to enter into the conversation with them. Then you can test it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's not about me. It's about the survivors. It's about the victims. That is why I am asking this question. My question to the Minister was as follows. We have indeed asked the government to set up an independent committee. Can the government, as the sponsor of that independent investigation which he is not going to interfere with in substance, tell the committee that the Chamber appreciates being directly informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	The committee, which is formally set up, will present that report to the Minister. No letter is changed to that. That's all you care about. That's what your room is about. That makes sense, too. Your room can check that yourself. So that's a fact. Furthermore, Mr Van Nispen said that there were doubts about independence. It's been an assignment from your chamber to the cabinet. We took care of that committee. If your Chamber says, "What can you do to test that independence again?', I would like to say that I think it is most appropriate for this committee to be introduced directly to the standing committee. Then the room can test it. And if you don't want to, yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	A brief comment. Things that are self-evident to the Minister, for example how such a report is produced and that the ministry does not change a letter in it, need not necessarily be taken for granted to people in this country, including the victims. That is, of course, the point here. That was our question, too. Could you take away a number of misunderstandings, including the victims, and perhaps talk to them, because apparently there are images of that committee, about that report? These can be taken for granted by the Minister, but that does not mean that the way we do business here is also self-evident for the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	But that's just as difficult. The Chamber is asking me, by way of motion, to set up an independent committee. I did. I have been told that these are the experts to be on the committee. Furthermore, I am watching to get close, because I want to make sure that it is independent and it is obviously very sensitive. Let me make that very clear. I say now for the last time that I think it is best for your Chamber to enter into the discussion with the members of the committee so that you, as a Chamber, can check whether that is a good committee. I do not have to go into any further detail. I don't want that. I have to stay out of it on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	Clear. Before I tell Mr. Van Meijeren... Not talking to each other in the room, but talking to each other through the microphone. Before I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren, I would like you to give another ruling on his motion, the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	What motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	That's the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: You haven't made a judgment on that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	I wasn't ready for that either, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	No, but I'm asking you to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	Can I first answer the other questions that remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes. Is it about this point, Mr. Van Meijeren? I shall give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren on this point. Please don't ask the same question that's been asked four times. Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	The Minister states that he wants to stay away from this committee in order to avoid the appearance of dependence. The motion calls on the government to investigate. Of the 23 members of the government, it is the Minister of Justice who sets up a committee, appoints the chairman, appoints the other members and has the power to suspend and dismiss the members. The Minister then states that he only signs his signature and does not even look at it in substance. Thus, the Minister either says that he is in a totally inappropriate way fulfilling his powers by simply signing and taking responsibility for something that he is apparently not even involved in, or that he has a great deal of objection to agreeing to the only reasonable requirement of all those conditions in that letter of fire. The most reasonable one is: at least make sure that committee is independent of justice. Why is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	This committee is independent of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	The committee was set up by the Minister of Justice and is therefore not at all independent of justice. Nor do I get an answer to my question: why does the Minister have so much objection to this committee being separate from the Ministry of Justice? Isn't it true that the Minister appointed those members? Is it not true that the Minister has a direct authority to suspend or dismiss the President and the Members when they act differently from the Minister's wishes? That is the responsibility of the Minister. He acts like he's just signing a signature and not using it, but he refuses...If that were the case, it would be perfectly logical for him to have no objection to the investigation being conducted independently of justice. However, that must be done under his full control at all costs. That gives rise to incredibly distrust among the victims, for which I fully understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	This is going to be very difficult, because I made a point of order at the beginning. In this motion it is stated that, of course, high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Justice are also accused of this abuse. If, in a decent rule of law, you make that kind of serious accusation, especially if you do it in a chamberal motion, you have to make it substantial, I think. That would disqualify that motion for me right away. Apart from that, the request... the motion at the time was from your Chamber. I have put that into practice by making sure that committee is there. I will allow your Chamber to make a full assessment of whether it considers that committee to be independent. I'll stay completely away from it. No matter who signs it... The theory I hear here is that if we, as a cabinet, fulfil your mandate in the motion by setting an independent committee, that committee will no longer be independent if we, as a cabinet, sign it, no matter which minister does so. Because you know, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. So, well. I also appreciated the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yeah, he gets judgment: dissuade. Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	The Minister's repeating himself tremendously. That point in the motion he objects to is a fact. It is a fact that high-ranking officials from the Ministry of Justice are accused. There can be no one around that, apart from the question of who and what exactly are involved. The Minister refuses to answer the very reasonable question as to why he wants this committee to take place under Justice at all costs. He says the cabinet speaks with one voice, but it is not the government that set up that committee. It is not the case that the government can appoint and fire the chairman and the members. No, that's all with the Minister of Justice, and no one else. This Minister may, independently, at any time it considers him to be in agreement with the decision to appoint the chairman and the members of the committee, and so on. He's hiding behind the government now and he says he's just signing an autograph. That sounds very nice, but legally it is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	From a legal point of view, something is actually being sold that I only have very negative qualifications about in terms of sense. It is very simple: this is a committee set up by the cabinet. So if it is said that this committee... your Chamber will, as far as I am concerned, discuss it with that committee and may test it for myself, but it would in theory be a new assignment to the cabinet and then we will start it again. I really assume that this committee is independent. I have no other than formal interference in this and I expressly offer your Chamber a full review of that myself and then come back to it. I had a few more questions I need to answer. Mrs. Michon asked about the pedo manual. The relevant legislative proposal will be submitted this autumn, i.e. before 21 December 2021. With regard to that bill of vice, I would like to say that I think it is wonderful that, with very overwhelming support in the Chamber, we have actually said that we have to move forward in this way, even in the form it has now. It is also very good that you, as a Chamber, have ensured that we have the money for it, because I think that this is a very important legislative proposal for society. We are working very hard to ensure that it is still at the end of this cabinet period, but I do mean... Now I have to say it correctly: at the beginning of December it could still go to your Chamber. That would be really nice. I should not say anything about the end of this cabinet period, Mr President. I'll do everything I can to make that happen. I will make sure that, if that is the case, there is also a letter on how we could speed up that process together. I think that is the point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you. The Minister has provided the motions with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate. The motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday 9 November. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
