ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	I have received written answers from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, my colleague from the PVV has a point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. I don't want to waste my precious interruptions on this. I asked for two things last Tuesday. One. We see inflation rising dramatically. September's purchasing power promises are now gone. They've evaporated. Come up with a purchasing power recovery plan. The whole room agreed. We wanted that for today, the beginning of the first term of the Secretary of State. We didn't get that. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State why he did not send it and whether he can still send it to the Chamber. It is very necessary. My second point is that I have asked questions about the sustainability of our social system. Exactly how much money goes to non-Western immigrants in welfare? In 2019 I received a response from this cabinet after a long push. I have already asked for it three times, but I did not receive an answer in yesterday's written round. In 2019 I did receive a reply from the cabinet. Why are you mucking away those numbers? And do I still get those figures in this debate? I just want those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	The Secretary of State responds to these two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr De Jong asks for a purchasing power recovery plan. A lot of questions have been asked about purchasing power. We have answered questions from Mr Omtzigt. I am sure that we will be discussing it extensively with each other shortly. I will therefore explain the government's commitment to purchasing power, but we do not have a plan in this respect. The plan that's there is the plan for the energy bills. I'll tell you a lot more about that in a minute. I think we should have a good debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr De Jong raised two issues. The first was purchasing power. Can you handle that and then move on to the second point? Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	We can't agree to that. We have asked to get in writing what this Secretary of State is going to do to restore that almost 6% inflation. Those September purchasing power cards aren't worth anything anymore. People at home can't pay the groceries and rent anymore. They're about to have huge problems. We have asked Chamberwide to get a reaction from the cabinet in writing by Thursday, so today at the latest. You didn't send it, and we just want it to happen. I ask my colleagues here in the Chamber to put pressure on that too. The Secretary of State can't get away with this. We want to know what you're gonna do now. Put in writing what the idea is to fix these people. If that's nothing, I'm gonna have to get that in writing, too. You should have just answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	I think Mr De Jong's request is clear. The House is asking for what you want to say in the debate to be put on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	If that could come in the course of the morning, that would be nice. I now see Mr Omtzigt on the same point. Mr De Jong also had another question. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	This is the Social Affairs Act. It's about tens of billions. So this is not a non-binding debate. Sometimes debates are made as non-binding. This concerns the financial positions of households for 2022. All calculations are based on a one-point inflation of a little bit more percent. Inflation is 5.6%, so there is almost 4% more inflation than the calculations are based on. That is almost 4% purchasing power for the whole of the Netherlands. We have really had discussions here in this house about 0.2% purchasing power, which I thought was: what are we doing here? 4% of purchasing power means that people who now have €50 or €100 in the week will have €0 left for the groceries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Ommzigt, for a moment, this is a point of order. Mr. De Jong made that point, too. It's clear why you want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	Okay, but the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	The question is specific: what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	So the question is about the plan, or the lack of it, before the debate begins. Because this isn't what you do in a debate. You're asking, is there a plan to fix that? That is why these questions are put in good time. Then you want to get that for this, so you can talk about it. That's when you're gonna have a debate. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	Clear. Mr Nijboer, also on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Social Affairs budget is completely out of date. There was a zero line promised to everyone. Turns out everyone's going down the hoofs. People are going backwards. This is the debate on purchasing power. The whole Chamber, from left to right, including the VVD, has said: this cannot be done; we cannot come up with this. We are now discussing what it means to people. I'd like that information. If the Secretary of State is standing here empty-handed, he has to say so. Then we need to have the debate on that. So he has to make proposals to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	Clear, clear. I would like to ask all the people who are going to stand up to speak to the Secretary of State to suggest what we can do now before I actually let everyone on this same point say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	I understand the concerns of the Chamber very well, of course. That's what we're gonna talk about. We have answered questions about this in the run-up to the budget. A lot of questions have been asked about this during Tuesday's budget debate. I am going to say something about the causes and what that means and what it does not mean for purchasing power. 'Cause there's all kinds of numbers going on here and on. They tempt me to go into the substance of that right away. I will do so in a moment, because this is a point of order. What the cabinet is going to do about it is also very much in the block on this, which I would like to share with the Chamber in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	I do not want to hear any more arguments on this point. I shall first return to Mr De Jong's point of order. That is where we started, supplemented by Mr Omtzigt's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	Actually, I'd like to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, because we're gonna have the debate later. This is a point of order. Mr De Jong's request is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	The question is: is there a plan or is there no plan? We'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u24	But Mr. Van Kent, Mr. Omtzigt has just asked that question, and so has Mr. De Jong. So you're repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u26	You have not been given the floor. Can I just try to get this done now, before we waste a lot of time on a point of order? The whole Chamber is asking whether we can get on paper what the Secretary of State will say in the debate. That's, when I sum up, what it's all about. The question to Members of Parliament from my point of view is: is the agreement if it can now be put on paper in the course of the morning? Then we can start this debate. That's my preference. If necessary, we will park this important subject and the Secretary of State will start with another part. I think that's wise. Can you agree to that? I ask Mr De Jong first, because it was his initial request. Mr Omtzigt or Mr De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u27	If that helps, because I know that there is still a budget for agriculture behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u28	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u29	So I get your point. Then deal with the other points first, for the next hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u30	That's exactly my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u31	However, I would like the energy package to be explained in an hour's time, in the form of a letter, if there is any extra money, but we know whether there is an extra matter and what 5% inflation is now doing for households. Only then can we start the debate. When we get it, we also need to suspend for 15 minutes in order to read it and to be able to discuss it quietly. Because we haven't had such a fall in purchasing power since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Omtzigt, the content of the debate will follow later. Your request is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u33	I should also like to say a few words about the classification that I had in mind for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u34	Maybe it's good to do that right away, then we've got a grip on what's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u35	That's fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u36	You'll start with your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u37	Yes, I'd like to make a brief introduction. Then I come to the future-proof labour market. There's really everything in there: breastlap, flex,zzp, labour migration, labor and care, pension and healthy working. Then I come to "everyone is needed." That is actually participation and security of existence. So this is about labour shortages, education, inflation, purchasing power, debt and poverty. Integration and labour market discrimination are also included. Then I have a third block: the human dimension and appropriate service, the hardness, implementation and enforcement. I don't think that's gonna happen until this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u38	The point made by Mr De Jong, Mr Omtzigt and everyone else is in block two. We're just gonna start with block one. Then I'm going to ask the Secretary of State to put the Chamber's request on paper as soon as possible. Very briefly, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm considering turning over block two and block three. Then the letter can come quietly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u40	Exactly. Thank you. Mr De Jong had a second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u41	This is about the sustainability of the social system. I asked: please give me the figures of how many non-Western immigrants are in welfare. In 2019 I did get an answer to that after a long push. Now, after three questions, I do not get the answer. There's not even an estimate. In 2019 it was stated, with a full justification, why they amount to that 3 billion euros per year. I just want to know how much money it is right now in the middle of the debate. That can be sent with the purchasing power story. That can't be difficult, because it's already been pre-worked in 2019. I want an update on that. That is what I want to be sent to the Chamber at the moment when those purchasing power cards come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u42	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We've given you answers. They came to you in writing, too. I've got it right here. That is where I think we are being written about what we have in terms of data. So how many people with a non-Western background are in welfare: 234,000 people, 52%. We also say what total assistance expenditure is: 5.6 billion in 2022. 52% are non-Western immigrants. Just because the amount someone receives may vary per person, I don't have it up to the decimal point. That is what I am saying to Mr De Jong. That's what I've got. So I can't send anything else because I don't have anything else. We did our best to answer that question properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u43	I do not want to have a debate, but I have this Secretary of State higher than what he is now answering. I'm really asking him as Secretary of State to just take a Member of Parliament who asks for information seriously. I asked the exact same question in 2019. Then I got the answer: "... an overall indication of the amount of benefit to these specific groups. It is EUR 2.9 billion for people with a non-Western migration background." You did not add that sentence, that particular sentence, to the answer you gave. Now it is difficult for you to look, but you say that this is the total amount of assistance; 52% of it is non-Western immigrants, but I do not give that the amount we link to it. I just want that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u44	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u45	I've got that amount...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u46	You didn't. I got it right here. Mr President, please, this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u47	Perhaps it is a proposal to look again in the written plan that we have just asked as Chamber, and to look again at the question put by Mr De Jong, and to see whether what is being asked for is understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'll specify. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u49	Very briefly, because I would like to start the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'll specify. I would like the phrase "A multiplication of the above percentages provides an overall indication of the amount of benefit of these specific groups" to be added. And I want an amount of money tied to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes. Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u52	I will not give feedback on the written reply. I would like to return to the point of order. It's about the trial. In the third term of the Financial Reviews, our colleagues in the Finance Committee held motions, because the Cabinet would still come up with a package. We're about to receive a written response from the Secretary of State. Super fine! But could it also outline the process of developing the package and the budget of energy poverty? Because we cannot vote as a chamber on budgets until we have the effect. There are also colleagues who have held motions, precisely on that point. Can this be included, including the process of voting, so that we, as a Chamber, can express our budgetary rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u53	I see the Secretary of State nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u54	That's a good question. We'll take that with us in the Chamber's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thanks to Mrs Maatoug. Then this was the promising start of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u56	But maybe for a while, Mr. Chairman. I imagine there are all kinds of questions about the written set. We can also share this with each other here, but that is certainly the case for my officials, Mr President-in-Office, who gave us an answer to this question. We can talk about whether new or different information should be included, but that is part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u57	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u58	Otherwise we will get a whole list of Members of Parliament who are about to make all kinds of points of order about the content of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u59	Agreed. That is what we will see later in the debate. I would ask you to begin with your introduction. The number of interruptions is six. No, Mr. De Graaf...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u60	Just before the course: block two has become block three and block three has become block two. Let me get that straight. It's been decided now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u61	Yes. Maybe the Secretary of State can say that again. Then it's completely clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u62	I'll say it again in a moment, Mr. Chairman. After my introduction, I'll say it again. Mr. Chairman. When you watch a movie, you only see at the end who worked on it. Most of the time, there's no more chicken. So, if you'll allow me, I'd like to make a note in advance. Behind you all are many people in support, who are usually as invisible as they are indispensable. I mention the people in the political groups, who have helped with the sharp input of Tuesday, but also the people here in the Chamber, who ensure that we can have the debate here as an oiled machine. But I also mention the people at home, if after a heated debate perhaps we want to blow off some steam tonight, and the officials, the many officials. In particular, I would like to mention Social Affairs and Employment. Whether it's the NOW, the Tozo, the TONK, the pension agreement, the new integration system, the new Secretary of State, another new Secretary of State and so much more: there's been incredible hard work. We couldn't get them crazy. That goes for all our supporters. They're fearless, loyal and capable. Today, with LNV, we are the fence of the budgetary season. I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you very much to the people we do not always see but who ensure that we are seen very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr President, while I'm at it... Speaking of a movie, the director of this SZW film is, of course, Wouter Koolmees. He's not here today. Normally that name appears at the beginning of the movie, but you don't see it in the movie. In that sense it's a bit like in the film today: we don't see the director, but of course he is and he's done a lot. I want to thank him for all the steps he's taken. He may have felt it coming, because last year he held a very extensive anthology over the past four years. I won't do that again, but I think those have been very nice steps, which he should be very proud of. He is now working on his new film, the formation, and I hope we can see it soon. Mr. Chairman. I would like to give a brief introduction, as I say to Mr De Graaf. Then I come to the future-proof labour market, to the human dimension in enforcement and hardness, and finally, when the information is in, to participation and security of existence. The trouble for Mr De Graaf is that integration and labour market discrimination are at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u64	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u65	That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mrs Maatoug, is this your first interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yeah, this is my first. You've got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u68	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u69	Oh, yeah. I actually like the example of that movie. When you show a movie, there's usually a red carpet and one of the main players walks in. It usually has to say in two seconds, in a soundbite, what's going on with that movie: is it a good movie or a bad movie? What is SZW's budget film for 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u71	It's a big start before the movie starts. Meanwhile there is drama, as I hear Mr Nijboer say. I'm also quoting a bit from the Chamber, because it's a joint film. I hope that in the end it will be a film in which we will take stock a little bit, looking forward to the ingredients that we want to see even more in the labour market and cherishing a little something that is going well. It is always good to look at what is not going well, but it is also my role today to say where it is going well. Then maybe it'll be a nice movie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u73	We'll wait for the reviews at the end of the day. Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time there was a gladiolen grower from Vijfhuizen with six daughters and three sons. There was no money for toys. When it rained, he asked his children to skip the training of football club DSOV, because otherwise their muddled football kloffies would have to be in the washing machine and all those washings would have been pretty much in the papers. Despite their modest origins, the children of the gladiolen grower ended up well. His daughters made it cook, home care entrepreneur, credit manager, pedagogical employee, nurse and owner of a cleaning company. His youngest son earns his living as an accountant and his eldest son as a parking operator. And his middle son, Khalid Boulahrouz, played 35 times for the Dutch national team. He had a career that led him from the E's of DSOV to the Chelsea of José Mourinho. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you read something and keep up with it. I had that last year with this article from the Volkskrant, which I just started quoting. This was born between 1982 and 1987 as a result of research by Erasmus University Rotterdam into 30s. The story of that ordinary middle class family Boulahrouz, who works hard, often comes to mind; actually because of the beautiful story. I was reminded by the beautiful story of my colleague Kat, whom I wish very much success and pleasure in the Chamber. She told a story about growing, dreaming, getting opportunities and getting what's inside. Mr. Chairman. That is also why I am in politics, especially because getting opportunities and being able to take care of is not self-evident. The corona virus has made us realize that even more. On Tuesday, we heard various examples of this from almost everyone and just now again in the short order debate. Against the backdrop of a pandemic, we read every day in the newspaper about debts, burn-outs, educational deficits, high inflation and pension concerns. So we are not discussing this budget in an easy time, but perhaps it is all the more important. 'Cause where are we and what worked out? And also: what is not enough and what should be better? Fortunately, many steps have been taken by this cabinet. My colleague Wouter Koolmees gave a nice summary of this last year. For example, he mentioned improving the labour market to make good employership less costly and to give temporary workers and flex workers a glimpse of more security. He mentioned the new pension system to make it work again for young and old. He also mentioned the agenda for less debt, more equal opportunities and more opportunities for anyone who wants to and can work, in order to actually take that step. Mr. Chairman. SZW's budget is worth almost 100 billion taxpayers' money. Today, we will be earning purchasing power cards and earning effects with great precision. We might even be talking about medians and boxplots. The subject has been promoted until noon, but we are going to talk about it. It's gonna come up. We are all going to do it, and I also say to Mr Omtzigt, whom I no longer see anymore, but who is undoubtedly following it somewhere. Speaking of which, people are watching today's debate from home. Mrs Maatoug often refers to this and then says: let's see what people think of this at home. I always hope with her that people at home are watching. I think they want to know, above all, whether all that money is being spent properly. Is it gonna make us all better? Is it going to the right things for the right reasons? I therefore hope for a good debate. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we have very strong foundations to fall back on in this country. Over the past few months, for example on work visits, I have always seen that decisive optimism, even when the end point has shifted over and over again. I see it as our mission, the mission of all of us here together, to strengthen the will to put our shoulders under it together and to contribute to a Netherlands in which we do everything we can, even with the wind against it and even if the hail falls out of heaven, to go on cycling, passing on, sometimes with extra support if necessary. Because we can't change the weather, but hopefully we can. We'll be there together. Then I'll come to my senses, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the future-proof labour market. Much has changed in the debate. There are many challenges in the labour market. That's what corona showed us, but that's what we saw very clearly before. The Borstlap Committee referred to this as well and put it in the report "What kind of country do we want to work in?" It is very clear that the desires and burdens are not equally divided, that the differences between fixed and flex are too large and that there are too many tight rules and obligations for entrepreneurs. Think of the distributor who rolls from one flex contract to another, or of the independent entrepreneur who is without protection in the event of illness or disability. Think also of entrepreneurs who would like to hire someone, but sometimes run into a web of regulations. In recent years, we have taken important steps towards a modern labour market, including with the Labour Market Act in balance. This has reduced the differences between fixed and flex and has made it more attractive for employers to employ people on a permanent basis. And we have specific attention for the small entrepreneurs, the small employers who sometimes run into bottlenecks in the transition fee. We've done something about that. From 2022 onwards, employers' costs in the event of incapacity for work will also be reduced. But there's more to it. There is a challenge for the next cabinet. I fully agree with Mrs Tielen that good dialogue between employers and employees is crucial. Good employership and good employeeship are open concepts. They are concepts that move with society and get content in the workplace. That's a good thing. But that sometimes makes it difficult. At the same time, we see that it is not self-evident that this good conversation always takes place in practice. I think it is important that this is done and that we encourage that conversation, for example by offering good tools and handles. Mr. Chairman. There are steps taken by the cabinet in several areas. Following the urgent report of the Workers' Protection Team, many opinions have been drawn up. On this basis, we will continue in 2022, together with municipalities, provinces and social partners. In the reply I indicated that you will receive a letter before the end of the year on the implementation, elaboration and planning of the recommendations. The cabinet is also committed to a more equal division of work and care responsibilities between parents. We know that leave options contribute to that. As from 2 August of the following year, workers will be entitled to benefits for nine weeks if parental leave is taken. The broader leave system is also being investigated to make it easier for people to understand. For example, Mr Stoffer's questions on mourning leave relate to this. The reconnaissance is coming to you soon. This cabinet has also worked with social partners on a future-proof pension system: a pension system that is more personal and honest, and works for young and old. I am glad that the bill is now with the Council of State. The parliamentary trajectory is foreseen for 2022, hopefully in the spring. That was it, for my part, about the labour market. We have answered many questions about this in the set. I'll take a look around the Chamber to see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mrs. Tielen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u75	I heard the Secretary of State say that good employership and employeeship should end up in the workplace. That is where the dialogue must take place. He believes it is important that there are instruments and tools for this. I'm just paraphrasing what the Secretary of State just said. My question in the first term was: can the Secretary of State indicate whether he thinks that these instruments and the good employership are there now, or does he think that they need another update? If so, what is the Secretary of State doing to ensure that these instruments are available?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u76	I understand that question. You want to offer that space on the work floor. But if it doesn't arise, you want to help to make it happen or to say it more firmly sometimes. Partly we already know this struggle of course from zzp'ers and platform work. That's where we pull the reins. We also know that we can only really do this if we know what the whole system should look like, what is the position ofzzp'ers and platform companies, when it is about employership and when it is not. As long as we leave room for interpretation in that discussion, you can see that this is also happening on the workplace. I think it would be very sensible to include this point by Mrs Tielen in the implementation of Borstlap and the follow-up we give to it so that we can very clearly see what more tools and possibilities we can offer in the workplace to conduct that discussion properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u77	Of course, the Secretary of State is right about that, but it's about... he links it to platform work andzzp-ship, but platform work is only 0.7% or something of the total labour market. I am very curious how we will deal with this in the coming period, because a lot has been said about this in recent years, but a lot of employers know very well that they are employers. It is precisely there that there is a need for an update of the instruments concerned, for example in the areas of part-time work, contract formation and that sort of thing. I hear the Secretary of State say that he will come back to this when he implements the breast-lap advice. I'll take that as half a promise, and I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u78	I think that's fine. We can also make a full commitment by putting this on the agenda of the discussions we have with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u79	I hear the Secretary of State say that in the field of the labour market, he also comes with an exploration of mourning leave, in which I think Mr Stoffer and Mrs Maatoug are important initiators. He also addresses parental leave. Very good! But is it not good, for example, for families to look more broadly at what they need? I have not for nothing quoted the German Minister for Family Affairs, who says that the flex contracts, in which the Netherlands is a kind of champion, are the most effective contraceptive you can have. They prevent young people from taking that next step towards family formation and cause people to struggle to keep all the balls in the air if they also have to care for children and want to grow up safely. Isn't it good to look at that wider? How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u80	I recognize that point. I may also be in the target group or have been in it and at least I have friends and acquaintances in that target group. That uncertainty about whether you can buy a house and what your contract looks like is definitely playing into it. This cabinet has taken steps in this direction. You can further support this with possibilities in child support, child budget and child care. These are all steps that this cabinet has taken; I do not need to tell you that. But I also heard your question on Tuesday. I think it's very relevant. For example, in the ibo part-time period, we have paid particular attention to this. We also did that in the ibo surcharges, because that also depends on each other. A great deal of research has already been done, but I can imagine that we can put it on the screen and see which five or six action points we can get out of it that we should actually have higher on the agenda and make it easier for the Chamber to monitor if that happens. That is how I understood that question. I understand that point and we can take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u82	That was the whole block, I say to Mr Van Kent, who I see standing at the interrupting microphone. So if he's gonna say something, he's got to say it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u83	No, about pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u84	Ah, that's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u85	In the reply, the Secretary of State says that pensions have not risen with prices in recent times due to an increase in commitments. That would mean that over the past 14 years, catch him, the commitments would have increased by 1,200 billion. Of course, that's pure deceit. It is not the case that the promised or paid pensions or liabilities have increased by 1 200 billion. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP? Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that this has made it clear that pension funds have been poor in recent years, but that they do have enough cash to allow pensions to rise with prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u86	I disagree with that conclusion. I do not have it here, but I do know that in the answers to the actual questions we have given an overview of the liabilities that a fund had, of the levels of cover and of how the assets of the funds have grown over time. But the obligations because more participants are allowed to use them are also. It's not just about obligations. It also depends on investment results and the rules of the game we have. We often have a discussion about the calculus rate. If you change it, it does matter. Then you could hand out sooner. But in the end we also want to hand out to future generations, including Mr Van Kent. And that's what it's all about. That's what it's about. That's what it's about. We have rules for that. But we have also concluded that these rules sometimes ensure that older people have not been indexed for a very long time, that we find that really undesirable and that we have to do something about it. So we need to create a new system. I just said this is coming to the Chamber soon. I think we should then discuss whether it is enough for Mr Van Kent or whether there should be more in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u87	I note that not the commitments have increased enormously over the past 14 years, but the assets. Money is being hoarded and raised. But take someone who's worked hard in health care and who's retired now. It is now being told by the pension fund: your pension is not going to rise. Or the people who are now working in health care. They recently received a letter from the pension fund saying that your contribution is going up and your pension is not indexed. It's crazy. People pay high premiums. Pension funds get high returns. The wealth of pension funds has never been so high. But the rules that this Secretary of State lays down mean that pensions do not rise and contributions do rise. That is why the question is again: how can it be that pensions have not risen with prices over the past 14 years, while the returns have been fantastic and the capital has almost tripled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u88	I'm not an economist, but I do know that if more people are going to retire, there are more expectations to deliver that pension. Everyone expects this to be a good pension. But if the group of people entering a pension is much larger than the group underneath, then at some point you get a distribution problem. You need rules about how to do that honestly. In recent years there has been a very frequent exchange of views on whether that is fair or not. We now have a new pension system for that. Fortunately, parties in the polder believe that it is a balanced and good new system. It is not, of course, the case that these pension funds are taking clover all day and thinking: God, what are we going to do with that money? The APB has a coverage level just below 105, PFZW, Pension Fund Health and Welfare, even lower. Really large funds have many participants, many commitments and also a lot in cash, and that is also necessary. We've got a size for that. It's called coverage. Based on that, we'll determine what you can hand out and when. I know that Mr Van Kent does not approve of this and that he believes that the accounting rules should be adjusted. But this cabinet deliberately chose not to, because we want to do something that not only works for the elderly, but also for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u89	Without going into the technique: this level of coverage does not say so much about the assets that pension funds have. It particularly says something about how high the arithmetic rate is. In reality, pension funds have high assets and very good returns. I heard the Secretary of State use the word "fair." Does the Secretary of State think it is fair that there is a group that has been on the zero line for 14 years and that has nothing to do with proposals that have been made to do something somewhere in an intermediate phase? No, the people who work in health care, as a policeman or in education are not going to get a penny in 2022. They're on the zero line again. Does the Secretary of State think that's fair? What does the Secretary of State say to all those people who now work in health care or have worked in health care? Another zero line, then for 15 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u90	If you're retired and you've been working hard for your pension your whole life, that's a day in the week, but by now a little bit more than you expect to end up getting a good pension, but not just you, but also the people who come after you. This non-indexation also affects young people. That affects the construction for everyone. It's not something those funds do for fun. Where Mr Van Kent says that pensioners are not indexed and are therefore on the zero line, he looks very specifically and really only at supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u91	That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u92	I understand that, but you can't suggest that the AOW has never been indexed because it has been indexed for 20 years in a row, or that nothing has happened to the old-age discount. That discount was at the beginning of this period.Forgive me the exact figures, because they are in the set of €1,000 total and we have made them much higher by now, I think towards the €4,500 in some cases. So it is not that the purchasing power for that whole group of pensioners is not affected. There is, however, a problem with supplementary pensions, which we must solve with a new pension system, and that is what this cabinet is doing. In order to offer a perspective on indexation, we have also, on a proposal from the PvdA, made opportunities for funds to anticipate them next year. That is also important, because all these older people want to be indexed as long as they can. We owe it to them to do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u93	I realize that the Secretary of State is going to give me no answer other than the answer he has given to Mr Van Kent. It is a good thing that the Labour Party's proposal has been accepted, but the point is that hardly anyone will benefit from it. I don't think two thirds of pensioners have any use for this at all. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State if he is prepared at least to explore policy options to do something for those other pensioners too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u94	Let me see what the question is. Can I ask you a question back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u95	For the sake of clarity, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u96	Is the question of making different choices in the supplementary pension, for example to shift the 105 to 100, for which many elderly organisations also argue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u97	Yeah, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u98	The cabinet deliberately didn't choose to do that. Not so much the cabinet, by the way, because that has been an explicit choice at the table of the social partners, the polder parties. They have looked at this new system with each other as of 1 January 2023, in the sense that we would have liked it a year earlier, and how can we ensure that this promise of the new system that is being indexed faster can be fulfilled in 2022? With those parties, the social partners have looked at how we could do that and then we have reached the maximum conclusion on this proposal. I have heard the wishes of the Chamber and put them back with the social partners, looking at what we can do. I also said here in reply to oral questions that I was going to look into that. Well, I did. I've looked at those options, and that's where this came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u99	I think there's a slight error in that motion, a spelling error or a typo. It says in the PvdA's motion 'the policy coverage rate of 105%', because that is no good at all. Four of the five large pension funds do not meet this requirement at all. So I think it should say "current coverage" because otherwise they have no idea at all. So I'm assuming it's a mistake. Perhaps the Labour Party will be able to state in a moment whether that was indeed a mistake. My specific question is this. We are now in an exceptional situation. We have already talked about inflation rates. When the budget was in place, there was no question of re-closure of the catering industry and of a lockdown again. So there's another situation. You could say that there is a new crisis situation. Would the Secretary of State then be prepared to take a crisis measure which would then appear to make use not only of the current coverage rate for that 105% but also of all efforts to ensure that all pension funds can index?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think Mr De Jong would have liked to have a plan for that right now. We have already had this discussion with each other in the context of the Collecting Act, which was very much about pensions. We are about to have a wide-ranging debate on purchasing power on the initiative of Mr De Jong. So then we can take that point into account, but specifically about the pension part, we had that discussion in the collecting law, and I just gave a brief summary of that. I know that is not enough for Mr De Jong. He asked the PvdA about the level of policy coverage. It is true that this is not going to be helpful for all the funds, and we have to be honest about that, but hopefully for those funds where things are going much better now than in the past year. Perhaps next year we can give room for indexing for all those pensioners who are waiting for it. That's what I'm hoping to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr President, my second interruption. The reason I ask this question is, when I look at the answers to the questions, that the ABP is now at 105%, with the current coverage rate, PFZW at 102%, PME at 104%, PMT at 102%. If we look at the level of policy coverage, they're all below 100%. So that means they can't index. If you look at the current coverage, they're either just on it or not underneath it. One thing would not mean that they cannot index either, while they have a total of EUR 1,800 billion in cash. The only question I ask is this one. There's a crisis going on. Take a crisis decision and make sure that at least these five funds to which you refer in your letter can index. Because it would be incredibly acidic that after thirteen years the pension funds that are as small a part of it are not indexing if I already go along with those rules, because with 2% coverage it wouldn't be solved.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please do that for all those millions of pensioners, not for me, but for those people, because they're having a really hard time. I hope you can promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u102	Let me say this about it. I understand the question, it is also a good question, because it is of course something that really concerns a lot of the elderly in these funds. These are the largest funds............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I appreciate the flexibility of Mr De Jong that he does not go to that rate of calculation but anticipates a little on the proposal that we have talked about in the collectible law. Let me tell him this. We cannot pass out what is not yet earned or on which no return has been obtained. I don't like that. However, we can look at what rules these funds use and at what point we take stock of the situation. For these funds we are not going to take stock of the balance sheet on 1 November or 1 December, but we are going to do so in the spring, when those funds will also be able to index ourselves as a Chamber in legislation for 2022. So for these large funds there is still a few months to go. We see that every month you write that well, you get that coverage rate. The level of policy coverage is also increasing. A number of large funds, including ABP, are already very close. So we are going to give them this kind of growth, I think, to meet Mr De Jong's point of space to make that growth. But of course it has to be made, because we can't hand out something that isn't there. With that, I hope that we will be able to give this group space in the spring to index anyway. Normally you make that decision in November; now there's actually an extra moment coming in spring, at the latest in summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u103	Specifically, could you please take the current coverage rate instead of the policy coverage rate? 'Cause they're really a millimeter off. They won't be able to make it soon, because you say they're very close. Some funds are at 100%, if I go along with your rules, because I want the coverage rate to 2%. If it's so close, if we see politically that there's a majority and if people at home see that they're so small, wouldn't it be acidic if they can't index? So please use the current coverage for that moment. Can you promise me to do that in order to be able to index?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u104	We are doing this procedure, this opportunity to anticipate that new world, of course precisely to help pensioners and to give them an insight into indexation. We even give extra opportunities to buy some more time for that, you might say, to put that weighing moment a little later in time. That's what the motion requested. The motion also calls for the level of policy coverage to be taken into account. So, within the possibilities I have, I am also trying to respond to Mr De Jong's appeal and, above all, to the desire of pensioners to index, if possible. I think that's important, and that's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of my job market block. Then the wish was to move on to human measure. I have to go jigsaw, 'cause that's gonna take a little order. Mr. Chairman. Oh, Mrs Maatoug. A point of order or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u107	That's what we're gonna hear. Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u108	First of all, let me make the point of order. I wanted to know whether the youth wage is covered by the labour market or whether it is in another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u109	Yes, labour market. Do you have a question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u110	Then you know that. It was not an interruption and, strictly speaking, it was not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u111	I have a question, too. Thank you for the answer on youth pay, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how we are looking at the fact that price agreements are being made. In the major debate on how our economy works, it is very important that employers in sectors have a dominant position vis-à-vis individual workers. Especially in sectors such as supermarkets, where large profits have been made during this period of corona, it is very hard to see price agreements being made about not raising wages. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State of SZW is looking at the fact that the ACM is no longer investigating those price agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u112	I have to tell you, I, too, frowned when I read that. Another eyebrow went up this morning when I read about Schiphol, where also eight lots of........................................................................................................................................................ That's what I'm worried about, isn't it? We're gonna ask Economic Affairs about the ACM. I don't have the ACM on a string; that's in a lot of cases but it's a good thing. I have this concern, too. I can imagine that the social partners also have this concern and that we will discuss it with each other as a result of this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u113	The question raised by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very clear. We're in favour of everyone getting the minimum wage from 18 on. But the signal we're sending now is, "Good to see you make price agreements. It's good you don't share the profits with the people who've worked hard in this sector. We are also not going to apply the rules and the SZW Secretary of State also says that he is okay with it and that the youth wage is not being looked at." I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u114	This movie went very fast. There are two points here. The first is whether price agreements are being made and whether we are investigating them. The ACM did. I frowned on it with an eyebrow. I said that I wanted to have this conversation with social partners too, because it scared me too. So that's what I'm sharing. Next, the question is whether we should do what about youth pay. That doesn't have anything to do with it. I understand it would help, but it's also a separate question. We answered it in the written set. For this, choices must be made. Choices have been made. We raised the pay in two steps. We've gone to 21. There have been excellent initiatives from the trade union movement for this. I was able to work on that myself once. That's important. So it's not that I have no sympathy for that. I just think that the next step should be taken into account in the overall picture of how you deal with the minimum wage and with a number of measures in the labour market. That waits for choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u115	Finally, would the Secretary of State undertake that we, as the SZW Committee, will be kept informed of the outcome of the ACM and of the consequences of the SZW policy for the establishment of these price agreements? Then we can also consider the consequences in, for example, the new wage policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u116	Let me say this: we will ask EZK to check this out with the ACM. I think that would be useful, because then you won't have to ask any questions about it. Maybe you already have, but we will. Then we'll inform the Chamber of what we've heard. We're also gonna have the conversation with social partners. We talk to them weekly, but we have structured consultations. We'll put that on the agenda then. About the second: when we get that, I'll inform the Chamber about it. Mrs Maatoug is running away; that is usually a kind of confirmation in this Chamber. Very often it's disapproval, but here's the confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u117	I had the same impression. Mrs. Van Beuker, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr President, the Secretary of State responded so quickly... I was wondering if full-time bonuses should have been included in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u120	Then you're very fast. First of all, I would like to thank you for the written answers. Of course, I start out very nicely, but at the same time I'm a little disappointed with the answer. In November 2019, my predecessor, Mr Van Weyenberg, and Mrs Tielen already tabled a motion on the subject of full-time bonuses to encourage more full-time work. In the answers given to us in writing by the Secretary of State, he states that there is now a letter from VWS and that he does not really see so many possibilities. I find that disappointing. I would therefore like to hear further from the Secretary of State what steps he intends to take in order to check the time record in sufficient detail. I also understand that the tax options will be considered. I would like to have a deadline, for example 1 February. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u121	I'm just writing down what Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts is asking, Mr President. If I'm honest: in my head I found that answer a pity myself, because I also hope that this can be done and that this is a way to do it. We've seen Mrs. Tielen's beautiful manifesto. We've seen the earlier calls. We see in the care that it helps if people, if it can for a moment.... it is very hard in the care, but if it can just... want to work for another hour, and if we help to do so as well. The same applies to childcare, and I made that call last week. In this respect, therefore, I can fully follow. At the same time, in practice, it appears that there are legal consequences which either have no legal effect under European law, as I have been told, or are practical in nature, namely the time record and the points you mention. With regard to these practical points, we should be able to get back to the situation. From this place, I can't see what kind of steps we've already made, because I can't look back in the past few years. Of course we can give an overview of that; that is not surprising at all. On the other point: this is very clearly on the list, especially in the case of VWS, also in the future and in the Corona approach. This is, of course, a real wish for us as well. So it's not the intention, it's the question of whether we can make it work. I hope I have been able to help the honourable Member a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u122	You continue with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u123	Human size.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u124	Human size.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Chairman. The child care allowance affair has kept us a mirror. A very penetrating lesson we have learned is that the combination of eye for human measure and eye for execution is very important. That didn't go well before. This is also confirmed by parents, including in conversations I have had with them, together with my colleague Alexandra van Huffelen. Those parents' stories affect all of us. Above all, there is a clear lesson: we need to listen to people better. What can they expect from the government? They can expect us to help them well and make rules that help people and not work against them. That's why we're investigating harsh effects in our laws and regulations right now, and that's why we're looking at how we can enforce better and easier. The Participation Act must therefore be improved accordingly. This is a major challenge, in which we work together with implementation organisations and social parties, but also very strongly with people themselves, on the basis of the idea that we should do it together. I also sent a letter to the Chamber on 16 November on how we do that. Mr. Chairman. A mistake doesn't make you a fraud. At the same time, of course, we are also faced with the appropriate response if people deliberately break the rules. This remains an important condition for the acceptance of our social security. It's about taxpayers' money. We have to deal with this responsibly. This is also responsible for dealing with enforcement. We are responsible for helping people better and preventing mistakes and mistakes. This is also responsible for dealing with enforcement. The Prevention Team is working on that. As I wrote to you last week, we are examining the whole enforcement system. In any event, we are looking at how we can take personal circumstances and special cases into account in the recovery process. Recovery is not done without reason. In fact, illegal tax money has been provided. At the same time, there are many people of good will. That is why we must not lose sight of it. I agree with Mr Ceder that the current legal possibilities are too limited to waive all or part of recovery in individual cases. I would therefore like to comment on Mr Ceder's proposal to work together with municipalities and the implementation of a proposal for a more balanced recovery policy. In addition, I am committed to combating cases of real abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr Ceder has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u127	Of course, I'm getting really excited about this kind of lyrics. Normally I am very dualistic, but I think we can be very monistic in the common goal, namely to see how we really can restore the hardnesses in the implementation, or at least that there can be more room for manoeuvre. As you know, we have made an initiative proposal with a large number of parties in this Chamber. I read in the letter that you're working on that, too. My question is: how do you see that? We have a proposal and we can submit it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to really look at that? I want to prevent us from trying to invent the wheel on two tracks, as we simply have a common goal. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u128	The answer to that last question is, of course, yes. That is what we do with proposals from the Chamber anyway. That is exactly what we are doing on this subject. At the same time, on the first point, I would like to say that I believe that we are all monistic in this approach, if I may use your words for a moment. There have been incredibly many debates in this Chamber and in many halls. There was a terrible reason for that. Many colleagues have been critical of this. For example, the hardness is mentioned by Pieter Ommzigt. He had multiple motions on that. I think it is up to Social Affairs, and by the way every ministry, to set an example there. Of course, that has to be within the possibilities that exist. I took the step last week with the possibilities I see now. We have also informed the Chamber about all the possibilities that we see even further. Your proposal could simply contribute to that. So that's what we're open to. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about the childcare allowance. That's what pre-work was done for a next cabinet. Several scenarios have been developed for such a new system. In the meantime, it is my and this cabinet's responsibility to work on improvements in the current working methods of this system. More generally, it is therefore important that the government listens better to people. It is also important that the government is fair and transparent about the implementation, what can and cannot be done in it and what goes well and what does not go well, in order to better respond to what people need. This is why the report on the implementation of our Work on Implementation has been launched. That's a big stretch within the different ministries. We make policy from the ground up. The starting point is that we do so with regard to feasibility. Fortunately, a number of steps have already been taken this year. Signals of execution or of people appear earlier and more clearly on the board of policy makers and politicians. They're gonna get busted right now. People need to be able to get in touch easily and be helped further. We do this digitally or by telephone where we can and via counters where we need them. Mr De Jong of D66 mentioned the example of Mrs Huijbregts on the Garage of the SVB. That's a good example of that. When people get in trouble, there's got to be room for customization. That's what's happening over there. Professionals give means to achieve breakthroughs, especially in complicated situations, by not moving quickly, but by unpacking out, taking a look and getting in touch. That's what they're showing that human size. This is important, also in the case of the cost-sharing standard. That was also a matter of concern in your Chamber in the first term. Mr Peters specifically asked what I would do to mitigate the effects of the cost sharing standard. This spring, the cabinet looked at how the cost sharing standard could be shaped differently. Specifically, it means preventing accumulation and taking into account the economies of scale that exist when you move in together. It has also been emphasised to municipalities that in individual cases tailor-made work is possible by temporarily not applying the cost sharing standard. Those possibilities are there. In the City News, which local authorities always use well, I specifically asked for attention to be paid to this, even at the request of your Chamber. The review of the cost sharing standard has been declared controversial by the Chamber. So that waits for choices from a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u129	I have a brief question about that. I am well aware that, according to the law, municipalities can and can do a lot of things. I was an alderman, too, so I know that. I did it once in a while. I wonder if the Secretary of State has an idea of how many cases a municipality really thinks: in this particular case, I am only a little away from the cost-sharing standard. I've been calling around, but that's hardly ever the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u130	I discussed this with the municipalities, with the VNG and with the G4. I don't have any specific data on all those municipalities. Those municipalities have it themselves. We have, of course, taken stock of this. It is not for nothing that they say: the cost-sharing standard has to be changed. This is still a bit different for each municipality or in terms of political colour in the municipality. But the bottlenecks you mention are also mentioned by them. I can therefore imagine that sometimes it is difficult to deliver that customization. At the same time, there is room in the law. They have also brought to the attention of the public. A hand-out for municipalities also helps with this. At the same time, for this reason, we started exploring the possibilities of adapting it to make it simpler. It's been declared controversial. But I recognize the signals that Mr Peters refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u131	Finally, on this point. I know municipalities are allowed almost anything according to almost all laws. You can do customization on anything. Think of the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act; anything is allowed. But it doesn't happen or very little. Then I think: I'll wait and see what happens at this point. But I also think we're all here to tell the story we're telling about our obstructive beliefs... if we keep saying "they shouldn't have the benefits and we should make sure that fraud is dealt with," then I think: everything is allowed, but that's not what we're asking, so is this the intention? You say anything's okay. I know. But is it your intention for municipalities to do customization? Say it out loud. Then maybe they'll do better. I'll wait for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes, that is explicitly the intention, including of the law. Not everything is allowed according to the law; Mr Peters knows that. This also applies in this area, the Participation Act. We've answered some questions about that, too. They must have that space. We have brought this to the attention of the House. It's a slightly broader question, though. That is also the question that Mr Nijboer asked about living together. We answered that question in the set, but you should also keep some of those rules under review. It's not for nothing that we've identified all kinds of bottlenecks. When I was at the SVB, I heard about Garage the Meaning, but also about the problems with the cohabitation forms, for example at the AOW. That's kind of crazy and old-fashioned sometimes. At the same time, it does ask for choices; which one do you make? They're all in that reconnaissance. It'd be nice if we could pick it up pretty quickly with a new cabinet. But until then, we have to do what we can. That's why I said we have to do what we can now. That is entirely in line with what Mr Peters has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mrs Maatoug. Would you mind getting another microphone? That's a different perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u134	This was about the Participation Act. I triggered her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u135	That's good for the step counter in this smaller room. Mr Peters just asked a very good question. The exception is intended to be used, but it is not. So we are in a situation where we are seeing a huge increase in the unemployment rate. The Secretary of State already referred to my appeal, and the hope I expressed that many people are watching these debates. As a follow-up to what my CDA colleague said, I am therefore pleased to hear again in the future what exactly is meant and what you are asking of municipalities. Because it's being applied very narrowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u136	For a number of elements, but also for the cost sharing standard, municipalities have that space. You have previously tabled a motion on this matter in the Chamber. As a result, I have encouraged municipalities, both in the discussions I have and in the municipal news, to make use of these opportunities. The question is: is that enough and why isn't that happening? That's actually your question. I asked that question, why it doesn't happen, of course. Then there are reasons, as Mr Peters says, that it is sometimes quite a lot of work in the implementation to do all this individually. Apparently, that requires a lot of execution. It is easier for them when they could apply that categoryr and more generic. Then it's automatically in the instruments they use. I'm skipping between what I can do now and what we might have to meet in a bigger conversation about that cost sharing standard, and at all about living together in all other forms within social security. I have discussed and put this on the agenda at your request and at the request of the Chamber. There is also a hand-out to give that extra hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr Koolmees is working on the script. I hope this is a fundamental point in that film. But I'm a little afraid of that, because it's just complicated. It's not for nothing that when you live together on average you get less AOW per person. Because if you double it, it'll cost you either handful of money, or you'll have to lower the AOW. The same applies to increases and taxation. But you also get scared when you add it all together, put together your normal income records of two people and say "go live together" or "stay in your house, especially if you get rent bonus." That doesn't make any sense to anyone. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he really has all these arrangements ready, both fiscally and socially, to the debt relief to date and with practical income examples. I've seen that reconnaissance of the AOW, but it's only about the AOW. The cost-sharing standard is rightly a major discussion point here. But it's the combination of all those things together that I think is really magnifying the housing shortage right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u138	I share that concern with Mr Nijboer. That is why I said something about this in his direction. It is true: there is therefore an exploration of the AOW and the cost sharing standard, and there is a problem analysis from the implementation. The latter is actually on dozens of points. Mrs Maatoug asked the last time: can we perhaps work out and prepare a little more in that so that you can make choices faster? Because, of course, some choices are political. That goes for this, too. I therefore take this appeal very much to heart. What we can do already, we will communicate towards municipalities. But your question is broader: do we have enough in a moment to put that satep trigger through? Do we have all these options, including fiscal ones, now in the picture? I don't have the answer to that. Here's what I'm gonna say. I'm gonna look into whether there are enough building blocks outside all those reports to complete that whole puzzle, so that choices can be made in it, or whether we think that puzzle is not complete. In the latter case, therefore, more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u140	The cabinet will invest extra in implementation from 2022 onwards. Because we have to realize that not everything can be done. Not everything can be done as quickly as possible. Choices have to be made. It is a good thing that this has been put even more firmly on the agenda over the last period. It also sometimes prevents disappointment about things that cannot be done, for example about amendments which the Chamber is enthusiastically tabling and which, in practice, work differently, or do not work out. It is important that we understand, from a political point of view, the challenges facing implementation, and that we also translate this into action. This can be done by entering into the conversation about what can be done in the execution and by asking for execution keys. Because we need to give implementation time and means to live up to all ambitions. The round table that your Chamber had with the UWV and the SVB about these bottlenecks letters is a good example of this. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of this block. If there are any questions, I'm going to answer them, of course. But I can also start with a number of points of block two, when it comes to labour shortages, everyone who is needed, the Participation Act, and perhaps integration. I'll just see how far I get. It might be better for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u141	I would like to propose the following. We're not gonna suspend too late for lunch. During that lunch break, the Secretary of State can look at what is going to be sent to the Chamber, which has been asked for. Following the lunch break, we shall first vote on the motions tabled last night at the Corona debate. But some motions still require an appreciation from the cabinet. That is what we will have to wait for. So I have to take a little time to see how we can do this best, without losing too much time. I think that the Secretary of State's proposal to start with block two, apart from the issues raised just at the start of the debate, is a good one. We'll see how far we can get. We'll lose as little time as we can. If you can agree to that, that's how it's gonna work. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u142	I'd be fine with that. The purchasing power comes later. Maybe after that, I'll come back with a question. I'm saving up my six interruptions for that hotline about things going wrong. Then the Secretary of State will know. I'd like to ask you as chairman to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr Omtzigt can do that now. 'Cause that's part of this cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u144	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u145	But Mr Omtzigt has another plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u146	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u147	Then I'll ask one question about that and save the other five. May I give you the following consideration, Mr. Chairman? The pieces will certainly not arrive before noon. Would you like to make a timely decision on when we are going to vote? It is difficult for small groups in particular to see 80 motions appreciated within an hour and walk through them. Maybe it's useful to do that at 3:00 or 3:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u148	Yes, I understand. I'll check with the Registry. Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u149	On 15 January, there was a debate on the resignation of the cabinet. We had all, we had really all missed the childcare allowance scandal for ten years: the implementation organisation, the Ombudsman had not got through it, the judges had done it wrong. All those beautiful NGOs we have in the Netherlands, hadn't seen it out of the house places. Everything had gone wrong. Then we knew: this is not only the case with the childcare allowance; this is also happening elsewhere. It's come out, with blacklists, with the surcharges. But we thought: it probably also comes with removals, it probably also comes with the WIA. Then we said one thing here, Chamberwide: come up with a hotline where this kind of big trouble can be reported. Big trouble. And that hotline, I've asked for it five times. It was also in the answers: yes, there has been an external mandate given somewhere, where perhaps someone will ever be able to give an explanation. That would be published. And once again came out that there were problems with removals, but not through the hotline. It came out that there are big problems with the WIA. The judge said, "I don't follow the law because the law is so harsh."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u150	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u151	Where is this independent hotline where citizens can report, so that we can get these major problems for the rule of law up and running?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr Omtzigt and I agree on the objective of getting all the signals and problems out of the way as well and as quickly as possible, so that you can do something about them. I see that in many different places exactly that thought lives. In many places there are all kinds of hotlines. I mentioned all that Garage the Meaning. For complex situations with UWV or the SVB you can see that. Of course, we have the Ombudsman. If notifications are made there, they are dealt with directly and people are helped by the relevant authorities, whether that is UWV or the SVB. So we see that in many places. How are we supposed to make sure there's a connection between those different places and how are you supposed to do that? We've been looking into that. To be honest, I didn't get to the point exactly what was and wasn't done. A trade-off has been made to do so through the existing hotlines. If I listen to Mr Omtzigt correctly, he asks: is that enough? He says at least give me an insight into whether that's enough, so I can find something of it. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u153	I've had this with Minister Koolmees a few times. There are points everywhere. We said, "We know where the problems are." The judges have indicated: we have abdominal pain from what we do at the vog. You refuse someone a vog based on suspicion, and that person doesn't get a job. They see that the consequences are enormous. We have abdominal pain from certain Bibob decisions and we see that things go wrong at the WIA and that big things go wrong at the IND and the removals. Good. That is why the Chamber has said: appoint a committee to do this outside the beaten track with a hotline. And what happens? The government instructs consultants. I ask the government to implement the January motion. Come up with an independent committee to sort out those problem files. We've been here almost a year. I am asking for every debate here, at least when I am here, because I have also been away for six months. But what's happening? It is not there and we have to find out again through leaked figures that the removals are really a problem. It was only then that we saw it, but we said here in the Chamber a year ago: someone has to look at it. Will the Secretary of State undertake that within a week and a half there is a clear letter on how to get to the bottom of this? I understand that's not gonna happen now, but this has to be figured out. I call the WIA, the IND, the removals and what the judges have abdominal pains of. Can he agree to that with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u154	The research requested by Mr Omtzigt must be sound, sound and independent. I say honestly to Mr Omtzigt that I have not been in the choice for an investigative office. They are undoubtedly consultants, but we must avoid creating the impression that we have a difference of opinion here. It is not that when there are problems, we tackle them in different ways and shattered over bottlenecks to prevent us really helping people and really getting them out. Of course, that is absolutely not the case. Absolutely not. We are doing our best, and we have, in all conscience, launched an investigation into this, specifically on the basis of your motion. I think the question is more: can we have discussions with the petitioner earlier on how to ensure that it is in line with expectations? Because it's not the intention. I'm sure of it. Mr Omtzigt says: okay, but let me see a little more detail than I have been given, what steps have been taken, when we can expect something and why the choices have been made as they have been made. I have no difficulty in sending that to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u155	Of course, this sucks. This is my third interruption in the sixth debate we have on this issue! We know the state doesn't function for its citizens. We know that there are judges' rulings and that there are people who get only €200 to €300 in the first months of the WIA, even though they've broken their necks and can't do anything for the rest of their lives. We know there's no legal protection in removals. There have been thousands of removals without legal protection. We know there are big problems with the IND. We've hired consultants, while the Chamber requests a committee with an independent hotline. It doesn't come up and that's why we have to bring up every single file, while the government seemed to think in January that it wanted to bring it up. I'm really asking the government to be serious, or else I'm gonna spend the next two years trying to get these things up one by one. I will, but I find that painful, because I thought there was a genuine government. But it's not sincere, because it's not... No! There is no hotline, there is no independent committee, with the abdominal pain conversations of judges nothing is done and the removals we have to walk all the way back. This should have been brought out. I ask the government to review this and to come up with independent people who can look at this and provide that input, otherwise you will have five premium cases in the coming years, of which you should have known. My question is: come up with a new proposal. Whether it's yes or no, I'm already through my interruptions. That's how it works here all day...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u156	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u157	I've worked my ass off!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u158	That goes for a lot of people who see all this. I don't think it's a pass if we're here pretending we're facing each other. But I'm responding to the request, because I hear here that I'm not doing my best or anything. That's what I hear here. Of course, that is not the case. I'm also trying to find out what the expectations were at the time. Can we come back specifically to what you're asking? I'd be happy to. I can do that in the second term. I'm fine with that, too, because I'd like to do it. But we're definitely pulling the same rope. Otherwise, Mr Omtzigt has the right to explain why certain choices have been made in the design. Because his request is very strong to do so independently. I understand that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u159	I have the impression that the Secretary of State is prepared to give further consideration to your request, Mr. Ommzigt. I would therefore advise you not to engage in another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u160	This is exactly how I'm gonna lose interruptions, so I'm not gonna do it, but it's gonna take me a lot of effort. I've sent dozens of memos to the cabinet and nothing has been done with it. Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u161	We are going to follow up on Mr Omtzigt's request as best we can. Then I'll start with what I had in mind, with the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u162	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u163	In addition, the labour market, RMTs, develop lifelong and the shortages in childcare are addressed. If we still have time, we can also talk about integration, labour market discrimination and other issues until we are in inflation and purchasing power or until you want to suspend, Mr President. With the recent tightening of the corona measures, many people and entrepreneurs are once again in a complicated situation. For this reason, the cabinet has announced a generous support package. There will be another debate with the Chamber next week. I would also like to say a few words about the background to what we are doing. That is why I would also like to talk about the shortage in the labour market. In this sense, the macroeconomic outlook is not unfavourable. According to recent CBS figures, 9.1 million people have paid jobs. The number of workers has never been so high. In our labour market, therefore, there is also a historical shortage. This offers people who were remote, the opportunity to catch up on that labour market. There are opportunities to guide people to appropriate work or to appropriate training. Because at this time when the crunch suddenly makes itself feel so strong, it is like never before that everyone is needed. It sounds nice that there is historically low unemployment, but the risk is also the cessation of activity and innovation. This may mean that employers in technology and ICT have their hands in the hair, because they are not able to fill the vacancies. It can also mean that a bicycle shop has to keep the doors closed due to staff shortages. We also see that in the hospitality, construction and childcare, and that while a huge group of people are eager to get to work. Too many people are on the sidelines for a long time. Too many children grow up in poverty. Too many people suffer from problematic debts. That is a combination I do not want to accept, which we do not want to accept. There are 126 vacancies out of 100 people without work. At the same time, this provides momentum for an additional incentive for matching supply and demand, i.e. to get jobseekers and job vacancies together. Employers and municipalities also want to work together to do even better. The UWV and the temporary agency are also open to reaching additional job seekers, to join forces. In the coming period, I want to make this cooperation concrete and support it further. Think of an innovative matching activity such as The Movies, organised by the EmployersService Point Holland Rijnland. They completely coronaproofed a drive-in cinema for employers where job seekers presented themselves in video pitches. 478 times, 95 employers expressed interest in an introductory meeting with a candidate. These are initiatives which, despite corona, fortunately take place in many regions. We want to expand it even further. In the letter on the support package, we discussed this. We've allocated another 40 million. Mr. Chairman. The De Kort member also had the question about the shortage in the labour market. In conversation with employers, he noted that there was insufficient insight into the competences of people with benefits. In response to this, I say the following. Together with the UWV and municipalities, we now improve the understanding of the profiles of job seekers. That leads to one. Today's labour market requires manoeuvrability, yes, that's where you have that word, and so investing in your skills for a lifetime. Many Dutch people do so and learn, or develop new talents, so that they can remain active in the changing labour market. The cabinet encourages this, including through the STAP budget and the Netherlands learns through. Every Dutchman can make use of this, whether you are self-employed, job seeker or employee. In addition, the SLIM grant scheme supports employers in SMEs in investing in learning culture. The regional mobility teams are for help in finding a new job. Among other things, the MP Maatoug asked for that. She also asked if I'm willing to make sure that all people can make use of these teams. As has already been said, I want to make use of the tight labour market. The regional mobility teams work according to the principle of "no wrong way through." This is a principle that allows everyone, all job seekers, to seek additional services, including career guidance. Regional mobility teams will provide their services until the end of 2022. The additional budget that we have earmarked for this is specifically in the eyes of that group of people who are in trouble as a result of the corona crisis. Mrs Palland asked me to ensure the position of the SBB within the regional mobility teams. That's the Collaboration Organisation Vocational Education Business Life. The regional mobility teams already use the expertise and services of the SBB. The SBB, of course, provides this knowledge of the provision of apprenticeships for job seekers and workers, fortunately also more and more for people who are already a little older. You're never too old to learn. Learning jobs are therefore a good part of the retraining and further training, also through practical places that we bring to the attention of municipalities and which the regional mobility teams also offer. The structural securing of these mobility teams and the position of the SBB, I find an interesting idea. I think there's a good chance of that. I do think that we should look at this and that it should be an integral part of the approach to education and lifelong development and the steps to be taken there, which are in the hands of a new cabinet. But if it's up to me, we'll find a way to think on that road. In any case, those regional mobility teams are high on my list. Mrs Tielen asked me to take control so that skills become part of recruitment and selection and training modules. In response to this, I reply in full "yes." The cabinet takes control. We do this with the development of a national skill language CompetenceNL by the UWV and with the dashboard Skills and professions of the UWV. We also make it clear which skills are needed per profession and per diploma, including in the national standard of matching data that I have just mentioned towards Mr De Kort. Mrs Palland also asked me to respond to the Amhaouch motion submitted to the EZK budget. This motion deals more specifically with the deficits in the technical sector. As the economy recovers, deficits certainly continue. The motion calls for an analysis of the effectiveness of the various initiatives aimed at resolving deficits in the technical sector on a structural basis. The cabinet will return to this in the first quarter of 2022, I say to Mrs Palland. I work with the colleagues of OCW and EZK to investigate what is needed. Over the past period, investments have been made in work-to-work development and life-long development. Does that work enough and what is it that might need extra? We'll take that with us. I can promise you that that investigation, including the cabinet response, will be with you at least before the summer. Then I come to Mr De Jong's questions about childcare. I can already see someone looking up terrified, but I have not heard Mr De Jong from the PVV about that. But Mr. De Jong of D66 does. In childcare, there is a shortage of staff and a high workload. This creates waiting lists and sometimes groups also have to close. At this difficult time, this raises a double problem, I say to Mrs Van Beuker. I have therefore decided to take a number of steps in consultation with the sector. In order to promote the influx of new professionals, I have the opportunity to deploy staff in training, temporarily extending from up to a third to half. It was also agreed with VNG and the GGD that situations due to staff shortages should be taken into account in monitoring and enforcement. What does that mean in practice? If by force majeure in the morning someone is ill, then you have a plan that you do in case of force majeure. That's what's gonna be done with this. Such a plan is drawn up together with parents, on the parent committee. As an example, I would like to mention the fixed face criterion, which is an important element. If the choice is "not quite the fixed face" or "the whole group goes home," we give the possibility to fill that out ourselves. We do this temporarily and, of course, while maintaining quality. In addition, we also look at the possibility to work for an extra hour. If that's possible, we're gonna encourage that, too. Of course, we are not only looking at what we can do now, but also what we can do in the long term. We are already working intensively on the evaluation of the law, looking at the impact of quality rules on the workload. We are also working with the sector to make the work even more attractive. That's a call the unions make sometimes. This is not only something of the government, but also of the parties that have a daycare center. In addition, we want to focus more on the combination jobs to combat the sometimes small part-time contracts. The combination of a bso and a daycare center allows you to get a bigger contract. Specifically, Mr. De Jong asked what is needed to continue the labour market campaign Childcare thanks to you before 2022. That campaign is an initiative of the sector. The Ministry of Social Affairs provided funding for this in 2020 and 2021. In 2022, it is first up to the social partners to decide whether they want to pursue that campaign. Mr. Chairman. Then I can go to the poverty and debt block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u164	But before you do, Mr De Kort has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u165	From the written answers, I understand that the bending agents for municipalities, as we call them, are already very challenging. However, there are still municipalities that no longer invest and no longer have personal attention for people who are long-term in the assistance and still need to be accompanied to work. As far as the VVD is concerned, we cannot accept it and we must invest in it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at those municipalities that are underperforming and, above all, to use the good examples, such as the municipalities of Maastricht, Den Bosch and Hollands Kroon, to encourage these municipalities to accompany people from the assistance to work, especially those who benefit from long-term assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u166	I understand the question. How do we get all these municipalities to get the most out of them to get people to work? That is exactly the call I make, not only to municipalities, but above all to the Netherlands, to everyone. That's a moral call: help each other get started. Half the terraces are empty, in some places. It really takes a lot of people and a lot of people are on the sidelines. We all have to help to do that and to get it together, municipalities too. The plan we are working on, which was also discussed in the letter on the aid package, made 40 million available for this purpose. We are going to use this budget specifically where municipalities are making extra efforts or need additional opportunities, so on the positive side, to do this even better and to speed it up even more. On the other hand, Mr De Kort asks: should we not systematically look at the bending agents and whether they contain the right incentives and balance? I think that's a good exercise in itself. I think you should take that with you in any way an exercise on what we're going to improve on the Participation Act. This should be on a list for a new cabinet, which should re-enter the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u167	Finally. The part about the bending agents has become clear to me from the answer. Encouraging the good congregations is nice, but I'm not so worried about that. I'm talking about the 10% that just doesn't do anything anymore. We cannot accept that there are municipalities that no longer invest in that target group. On the contrary, I want to see an extra commitment from the cabinet in the municipalities that do nothing with it. Can you promise to take stock of that and talk about it, for example through the VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u168	I can promise a lot. I'm just gonna sit here and see what happens when I say yes to this. That would be a conversation with congregations. We've had that on a regular basis. So that's where I can put this on the agenda. We've already discussed krappe there. This is specifically about 10% of the municipalities. Then I must ask them what more or better they are going to do, or at least an explanation. Let me do it this way: I am taking this issue into account in the discussions I have with the municipalities on the labour market, as well as in the elaboration of the plans we are still working on with them. I would then raise this issue with them, asking them how they see it and what steps they still see as possible within municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u169	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u170	You continue with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u171	Poverty and debt. We'll get to purchasing power later. That always gets a bit to each other, but this is really about poverty and debt policies. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to get an early picture of people with starting money concerns, especially from vulnerable groups, and provide support. The Netherlands has an extensive network of debt relief services. This is very important, especially at this corona time in which new groups, such as entrepreneurs, need to be helped. Mr Ceder asked how I look at a national dashboard with effective routes for debt relief. I hope he doesn't mention monism again, but I think a national dashboard is an interesting idea. I would like to undertake to discuss this with existing initiatives, including the Shoulders programme underneath it and the Dutch Debt Aid Route. Knowledge may already be present in part, but information on effective routes in dealing with debt relief can be better brought to the fore. I myself saw their dashboard during a visit to Schuldhulpmaatje in Utrecht. So there are good initiatives with dashboards. I liked it very much to see that it is linked there, for example, to Humanitas and other organizations that have antennae, for example at the football club if you think: is that someone who might need help? But of course it's not a click line. It's a support option. The dashboard also shows which places that might be most needed. I liked seeing that there. I find the idea interesting and we're going to see how we can help it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ceder also asked me to respond to the initiative law to halve child poverty by 2030. That is also about children who may not have the right papers. The Cabinet will take a position on this initiative law at the time when it is due to be dealt with by the Chamber. The letter on first reporting ambitions for child poverty also describes what is needed in our view to combat child poverty. There is a group of children who grow up in the Netherlands without a right of residence. I don't have any figures on the number of children. The Linking Act cannot differentiate as a solution to child poverty. Parents must be legally resident in the Netherlands for the purpose of applying for social security or supplement. Mr. Chairman. The issue of poverty and debt. Then I can go to labour market discrimination and integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u172	But there are questions. Miss Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u173	Yes, I do have a question for the Secretary of State. I had indicated on behalf of D66 in the first term that we see a role for wiser in money matters when it comes to early warning. In the reply I read that the Secretary of State is going to ask extra attention for this, but in my story I also talked about young people and their financial education and about getting more and more self-reliant in the financial sphere of this group. Can you take that in there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u174	Yeah, I get that question. Then we may have had a little confusion about that. We thought we were well helping to take it into account in the change in money matters, but we will also include this specification. That's a good point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u175	Anyone else on this subject? I'll take a look at the members. No? Then you will continue with labour market discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u176	Yeah, and integration is part of that. That's in one block, because we dedicated a separate WHO to that last week. The subject has also been discussed in the first period and has been highlighted from various points of view. Last week we discussed several aspects in the WHO, such as the integration system, problematic behaviour and resilience of democracy. At that time we also found that there is still plenty of work to be done. Everyone has their own image but on a number of points we really had a shared image. The new integration system must prove itself in practice in a moment's time. Strengthening the resilience of our society is also a long-term issue and requires that we are always one step ahead. The same applies to the pursuit of a society with equal opportunities in which everyone participates. It is also important to take those valuable lessons from recent times to the coming period. Many colleagues said that last week too, and in the meantime we are also making sure that this is set in motion. At that time, calls were made about the meanwhile group, language teachers, self-determination and the programme. Much has been exchanged about this and in the written answer we have done our best to answer the questions. This was the end of the block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u177	Then there are questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u178	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u179	That was a really fast round. Of course we talked about it last week. Only, over the last four years, it has hardly been discussed because the Minister is simply absent on this subject. I also called him the invisible minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u180	And today it is absent again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u181	I understand, of course, that he is working on the formation, even though it takes a very long time. We hope it's finished somewhere in 2029, at this rate. In my first term, I asked the Secretary of State very clearly whether he would like to be ready for freedom of expression, but above all against the Cancelling of people with a certain opinion. Cancelling is English, I myself called it flattening, social and economical, because that is what cancelling means. Can the Secretary of State answer my question here if he simply wants to call on everyone in the Netherlands, all companies, all institutions and perhaps even all parties to stop that behaviour of social and economic aspects? I mention, for example, the Meiland family or a few ladies from that family who have an opinion on a headscarf and then companies stop working with them because of that opinion. In the written answer, the Secretary of State tries to spare the cabbage and the goat, but that is not possible. Will the Secretary of State make that appeal and will he now say to the whole of the Netherlands: stop flattening because of an opinion on a headscarf, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u182	I don't have the impression that I wanted to spare the cow and the goat in that. I recognise that freedom and its importance. Of course, we have the same basic rules in the Netherlands, regardless of belief or belief. The freedom of expression and its shaping is such a good thing that we all consider it very important. So in that sense, I confirm it, except in this particular case mentioned by Mr De Graaf, regardless of the fact that it is a specific case. Of course, I cannot look through the walls of a room in which people sign a contract with each other or make agreements about their cooperation. That's what happened in this situation. Of course, I'm not one of them, so I can't see what kind of agreements are made there, because that's a private agreement. It's a good thing I can't look there. In general, that freedom must be beyond doubt, including what you find; you can say that in the Netherlands. Of course, we have all our standards and practices and, of course, the Constitution applies to everyone. The basic rules are the same. But that space is there, and we're defending it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u183	Did the Secretary of State also come to the end of the block of labour discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u184	Yes. I get the question. We have tried to answer it as well as possible in the written set. But if there's a question about that, I think it's useful to ask it directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u185	That's right. I asked to make sure that the Secretary of State did not have another reply; we now know that. Then there's a question. In the written reply, the Secretary of State states, following the question I asked, whether the fight against discrimination is explicitly mentioned in the Arbo Act, that this would be the case. Now I'm not reading that, so I was wondering if the Secretary of State would be willing to explain his answer, how he read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u186	That's a good question. It is part of psa, the psychosocial workload; that is what Mr Van Baarle said in the debate. I understand that we may not immediately think about labour market discrimination. It is part of it and it is also grouped underneath. In fact, Mr Van Baarle's point was whether that was enough and clear enough, and whether that also helps enough to prevent what we all mean by it. Two things about that. At all, the whole discussion on psychosocial labour taxation is just a little bit further than discrimination on the move. Your Chamber has proposals on this, on the right to inaccessibility. We asked the Economic and Social Council about this. So we're gonna keep that under review again. Secondly, therefore, we could specifically include this question: is that sufficiently clear or should it have an independent statement? I imagine we'll take that with us. Otherwise, I would not know what the feelings are at the moment in the Netherlands, or is sufficiently clear what is mentioned below or not. That's what we should check. We are taking this into account in the vision that we are going to develop in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u187	I have to understand that as a commitment. Then I wonder when we're gonna see some of that. When is the government planning to send that to the Chamber how it is viewed by this psychosocial workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u188	We believe that the opinion of the Economic and Social Council will come in February. Then there will be a vision from the cabinet. That is what I am taking this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u189	That's good. In any case, I thank you for that commitment. Let me ask you another question. The Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, which I asked a question about, ran from 2018 to 2021, so this year. My question was: what is going to be done in the next period? Of course, we are in a formation right now, but let us try to think away for a moment after that action plan expires?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u190	All sorts of actions have been put in place by the cabinet in recent years. Part of that is legislation that has been declared controversial. Mr Van Baarle knows that. But we do report every year in the progress report on this discrimination approach, so that is precisely what we are considering about the actions. In October we also established a National Coordinator against Racism and Discrimination. This is precisely the task of a multi-annual national action programme. So you could say that this is in line with the steps taken before and that we monitor in the progress letter that there is also a connection. In this sense, it is precisely an intensification of attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u191	But do I also have to understand that the current policy in the action programme, which runs until this year, is going to continue until 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u192	Or that so sharp... we move on to a different approach with a National Coordinator. It has the task of establishing a multi-annual national action programme. We will report on 2021 what we did in 2021, but we will do so in 2022 on what we did in 2022. If your specific question is: "I'm going to taste the problem of whether there's still a bottleneck in continuing the stakes on the theme and if I want to tackle a bottleneck, I can say that I'm going to see if there's a bottleneck. I could take that into account in the second term, but we can also do it separately. My picture is that there is no bottleneck there, but if it is, we need to recognize and resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u193	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u194	I'm afraid this was actually part of the previous block. We are still talking about labour migration or migrant workers. We had asked questions about that. We will, of course, send them through the labour market test. I read the written answer. I also asked about the clutch. How do we send more to that, also in view of the wide-ranging research we have done into population growth? One of the scenarios in that broad report on population growth is labour-oriented. Now I read the answer and the Secretary of State actually concludes: addressing the demographic developments outlined by the NIDI and the CBS calls for an integrated and cross-domain approach. I couldn't agree more, but the question is, what are we gonna do with it? That now also transcends your portfolio a little bit, although you go over a lot. Is the cabinet working on what we need, including labour market cuts and labour migration? Does this report have a role in that? And how do we follow up on that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u195	Yes. I think it's a good question, too. There has also been a lot of attention to it in the Chamber. Motions have also been submitted to the General Political Reviews. That's when there was that investigation. The purpose of the research was also to come up with scenarios. That's actually lying there, which is a shame. So that's an assignment we still have with each other. On the basis of this assignment, I have experienced it so much, also at this year's APB, that we have been asked how to follow it up. That's what you're asking. There was then a motion, supported by the Chamber, for a state committee on demography. We are now working on whether and in what way we could carry that forward. I hope to be able to inform the Chamber about this quite quickly. I don't know if that's gonna work this year, but it's gonna start at the beginning of next year. I agree with you that this is an important issue. It would also be so good if we not only discussed specific particles in our own booth, so just about asylum or just about labour migration, but that we look at what kind of country we are in five or ten years' time, how many people live there, what people they are and what suits that country. These are discussions that may also help to transcend polarisation. They can also very well lead to polarisation. We have seen that in recent years, but it is precisely the aim to transcend that. So I very much support the call and I also see it as an encouragement to speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u196	Good. It must also be followed up. Considering the small settlement block where you ended up, I think you're talking about polarization. I would particularly like to see it in the context of labour market cuts. It is qualitative and quantitative in nature, but it is also simply structural. How can we send good enough that when migrant workers come to the Netherlands, they are actually used where they are of added value and can also be used temporarily? It shouldn't be automatic to bring migrant workers here when holes fall. We must also invest in those who are now on the sidelines and want access to our labour market, but need a boost and support. We need to see labour migration in relation to where our labour market is at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u197	Yes, but we also see this in relation to questions like: what kind of facilities does the Netherlands have, how many homes does the Netherlands have, how many railways do we have? We're receiving people here, you might say. Right now, that's happening, and it's almost like some kind of natural phenomenon. But the question that lies below is: how are we going to pull that to a higher level? NIDI's research found that a lot of planning agencies still have insufficient knowledge about this. So it's important to build up that knowledge. We should not say: we do this specifically for labour migration or specifically for asylum. It is about demographics, in which the ageing population also plays a role. What facilities does the Netherlands need? What can we offer to people? Where can we offer that? That is a broad conversation, I think, which hopefully leads to scenarios and also to a better conversation in the Chamber. Of course, a state committee with a certain seniority can contribute to this. So we're gonna look into that, and we're gonna come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u198	I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u199	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll come to purchasing power. But we can take a break for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u200	Then we'll suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u201	I'm just gonna take a quick look. These were basically all subjects. If there's anything else besides purchasing power, which someone would like to ask, then... Of course, it can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u202	Yes. Mr Stoffer reports, and Mr Nijboer. First Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u203	I had one more question in response to the written reply. I would also like to congratulate you on the way in which my questions have been answered in writing. Great! That's not just a compliment to the Secretary of State, but most of all, I think, to all those people he was talking about who were behind it. Then my question. I asked a question about the wage cost advantage. It is said, which is also true: it means that an employer must apply for the wage cost advantage immediately at the start of an internship or holiday job. Otherwise, you won't be able to live up to it. Now, let's say this. You have an SME, a small business, let's say a snack bar holder. He hires someone for a few hours a week who wipes the sidewalk there. Such an SME does not think to ask. Two years later, he thinks that boy might be able to help me bake the fries. He's taking it. And then you're wrong, aren't you? I understand very well that you cannot provide for everything, but would the Secretary of State like to look into, examine, whether there is something to be done about this type of example, where you think there should be a sleeve to be adjusted, to avoid making it difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises who have just ignored this, and to make it expensive for them to pay a lot of money? Above all, I am concerned that we are really helping people who are remote from the labour market who we want to help get to work. I understand that it is a difficult question, but my question is actually: would the Secretary of State undertake to see if there is any way to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u204	That question isn't difficult. I think it's a good question. This can explicitly play with an entrepreneur who would like to hire someone and do his best to do so. So I think that question is very good. We have not been able to see that there are any problems at the moment, but if they are there, I can promise that we will get to work on them. Then I also need Mr Stoffer's commitment to share with us the examples he now has in mind. If he can promise that, I can promise that we will look at these examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u205	I don't have them all in my head, but I do have the person in my head who's delivered some and probably got more. So that comes to the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for that commitment. That saves another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u206	Good. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u207	Let's see if I can get this far, Mr. Chairman. I have drawn attention to the lack of diversity in the top of the Dutch business community. There are all kinds of schedules of resignations, but when you look at them, you see that it is often minimal to what one meets. We are now looking at male-female relations, but diversity is of course much wider than that. I have called on the Secretary of State, for example, to make a much more firm plea during the socio-economic consultations to agree, when another 60-65-year-old man resigns, that this function should be filled in differently, rather than looking at each time of: we come again to that 30%. That's what's going on now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u208	In any case, I would like to make my personal commitment to that ambition to Mr Nijboer. He himself has also been an example of this in a pension fund. That's where you have to find the 40-minners with a microscope, and you won't find them yet. So it is not only in business but also in pension funds. Mr Nijboer was a member of such a board as a young person. That could be very good. I believe that there is also an eye for young talent, and not only young, but also woman, and the whole diversity. So personally, I'm looking at all the choices I can make about new board positions. Mr Nijboer asks: do we have a sufficiently clear picture? We have a diversity monitor. We have the program Divers & Including. Then the question is: can you look again to see if that is enough? I'd like to take a look at that. I don't know the answer to the question right now, so I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u209	I like the Secretary of State's attitude. I also appreciate the commitment. I am particularly concerned that for ten to fifteen years VNO also said: we all think it is important. The Secretary of State means it, but at VNO I didn't see people really mean it, looking at the practice. The Netherlands is really behind in the world. I don't want a new law. That's not gonna happen either. I want hard agreements to be made wherever those boards are addressed. This applies to pension funds, accountancy organisations and large companies. I want people to really change that for once and improve it. I think Gerdi Verbeet's been at it for about eight years. She says: the ambitions were good. I just can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u210	Wherever we can do that, we really encourage it. We must count our blessings. The current President of VNO has a very strong view on this and shares it in many ways. I even got him to me in the discussion of the Pension Act and elements of the survivor's pension. So the theme ends up in many places. Wherever we can further encourage that, I will do so. I'm gonna say I'm gonna see if this point is in that monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u211	I have another question about the written reply that I received from the Secretary of State on sex work and that I have to put in with the Department of Social Affairs and Employment. The answer is so sad that I would like to ask a question about it. The Secretary of State says that there is good interdepartmental cooperation with VWS and Social Affairs, but it falls under Justice. He ends by saying: I see no added value in accommodating sex work and related files at this ministry. That hurts me a little, because I am trying to think of other professions that, like sex workers, are just legal professions that also fall under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. I am not asking for the good cooperation between the departments to be abolished, quite the contrary. It would be fantastic if we would simply treat sex workers as the normal entrepreneurs they are within SZW and there is still a very good interdepartmental cooperation, for example with Justice, where it is necessary with regard to abuses and exploitation and all these things. But as I see it now, it is really quite discriminatory that this profession falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, while other entrepreneurs, workers and workers are simply the responsibility of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mrs Simons also knows that we agree that sex work is a normal profession. We also had to post it this way, and we had to offer all the space and opportunities to do so. The conclusion you're drawing that we wouldn't agree with, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u213	It's literally right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u214	I understand, but it's just a normal profession. It's not an appreciation of whether or not it's a normal profession. I think it's a normal profession. That's what I'm saying here. We can certainly differ on that in the Chamber, but I dare say that here. We had a debate on it together before when I was still in the Chamber. But here it is specifically linked to the challenges of trafficking in human beings and also to the focus that some parties place on prostitution. That certainly has an effect on where we put it. I think that a new cabinet is another opportunity to see how we are going to tackle this issue at all. Take it education and teachers. Of course, OCW has a very strong commitment to this. However, it is more negative, unfortunately, in the context of trafficking in human beings. In that sense, I do share the intention. The question is whether moving to another ministry solves it, even if I can't do that now in my missionary status. That's what we meant by this answer. I hope it helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u215	Yes and no, because I understood that. What matters to me is that in horticulture, for example, we also have a great deal to do with abuses of human trafficking. This also applies to the catering industry, certain restaurants and snack bars where people are being crammed together and have to do their job under unpleasant circumstances or degrading circumstances. There are abuses in many sectors. There is trafficking in human beings, labour exploitation in many sectors. That is no justification for placing these sectors primarily in the area of justice and security. From the perspective of the sex workers themselves, the Ministry under which they fall influences the way they are treated, for example by the police, for example by authorities. I think that if we want to decriminalize sex work with each other, housing in Justice and Security doesn't make a positive contribution. Once again, we are not asking for this cooperation to be abolished. It is necessary where wrongdoing takes place, where the law is broken, of course Justice and Security is about that. But if we want to treat sex workers as the entrepreneurs they are, I do not understand why they should be the only target group to be put in front of Justice and Security a priori. That doesn't change the fact that trafficking in human beings, abuses...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u216	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u217	That's criminal law, and we're gonna have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u218	I agree with Mrs Simons on many points. I don't think we should generally do this right now... You're not going to do that, I'm going to tell you through the chairman. Of course, everything we do in the labour market also applies to sex workers. At the same time, some bottlenecks sometimes apply more to sex workers than to others. In fact, your call, the question is almost: if we do that in Social Affairs, it could mean more to those bottlenecks, other than just the focus on the criminalising side, so also on the freedom side, the enterprising side, thezzp side. I understand that. I think it's also for our ministry to look for and think about what that would mean and how that should be put in place on top of what we're doing right now. In this sense, we do not have a specific target group: oh, this is a particular target group in the labour market that we need to deal with a little more. We do this for specific problems of course: for example for platform work andzzp'ers. I'd have to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u219	In that search, I would like to give the Secretary of State the consideration: the better you protect the labour rights of sex workers and the more you decriminalize them, the safer they are in, for example, the department they fall under, and the better we can identify, detect and deal with abuses. This can be done precisely by clearly separating what is about bona fide entrepreneurs, and what piece of justice and security is about the places where things go wrong. Maybe that'll help the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u220	An opinion from Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you. In my opinion, it should be. That is undoubtedly what cooperation is for. But I understand Mrs Simons' appeal very well. She also understands that I am here to be outgoing and that we are waiting for direction for this. But I will do what I can from our ministry contribute to that. In any case, we will take note of this point, so that a successor of mine can take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you. I'm looking at the clock. I'd like to suspend until 1:10 p.m. I assume that in those three quarters of an hour the Secretary of State's letter on inflation and purchasing power will be received. If that 45 minutes is too short for Members to read this letter, then we have to put something in time. But I have the impression that we're going to vote first, so hopefully there's just enough time. Then we will continue with the further examination of the SZW budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u223	I was just watching, because you're cut off from the outside world when you're standing here. I suppose that's possible. But I'm gonna take a look at my officials. They're nodding, so it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you. I'm suspending until 1:10 p.m. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u225	I'm trying to multitask, but I haven't seen the letter yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u226	No, but I just told you that the Secretary of State would, of course, like to take a look at that first before he sends it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u227	No, sorry, I mean the other letter from VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u228	I hear he's inside, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u229	He's inside. Okay, then I'll have to go look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u230	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u231	I'm suspending until 1:10 p.m.
