ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Before I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for Finance. Mr. Van 't Wout, you're still Secretary of State for Social Affairs. You're very welcome. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the members of the interrogation committee for their hard work, their hard work and their crystal clear report. The conclusions are clear. The Dutch have been wronged, wronged and wronged. Well, then as a Member of Parliament, you actually want to know a few things. Who did this? Why did this happen? How can we avoid repetition? To the first question, "Who did this?', The report is actually clear as well. No matter how satisfying it would be to designate one or a handful of bad guys who deliberately executed an evil plan: that's not how it happened. You can say that politically, but it does not find any basis in the facts that the report outlines. Not a handful of people, but all the agencies you can count on as a citizen to be there for you have made grave mistakes. They chose the system and not the people. When I read the report, I actually wanted to intervene at a lot of times, go back in time, warn someone, tell someone to go through with it. At so many moments, another choice, another decision could have made the difference. Mr. Chairman. It's a cluster catastrophe of epic proportions. The fact that the cabinet has taken the ultimate political responsibility and offered the resignation of the entire cabinet is the right decision on the basis of the content of the report. We respect the fact that our Eric Wiebes has decided to leave the cabinet completely. That does not mean that the cabinet is the only one to blame. The report is also clear on civil servants and the judiciary. They, too, should have saved the parents who had been harmed from injustice. Before I go into what needs to be changed in terms of content, I would also like to consider what is not in the report. That's not a reproach to the interrogation committee. What's missing doesn't make sense for them to do either. What is missing is the Chamber itself. Honestly, Mr President, don't turn the heat on today, otherwise the butter will be dripping off our heads. The Chamber also has the necessary reasons to look at itself, to note that how we work, how we have helped to legislate, how we control and how we deal with incidents, has not resulted in what Dutch people can expect from us. I will not presume to speak on behalf of the Chamber, so I am only doing it on behalf of our own group, but for that reason, on behalf of my group, I would like to apologize to all the affected parents and children who have been victims of this. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, a critical consideration of ourselves does not diminish the criticism that can rightly be made of the cabinet, the judges and the civil servants. So I'm not defending anyone. I just want to prevent us, as a chamber, from forgetting our own share because of the role of political prosecutor we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	But there was one who was responsible for everything for ten years. That's your political boss, Mr Rutte. Mr Rutte was the chairman of the ministerial committee on fraud. He was responsible for informing the Chamber wrongly, wrongly, incompletely. As Prime Minister, he was responsible for the fact that his cabinet destroyed 9,000 files too early. He was responsible for treating innocent people like criminals. There is only one person present from 2010 to 2020, and that is Mr Rutte. Let that be just the person who may now have formally resigned with his cabinet, but who is going to continue immediately, who is simply re-listing your party and who, if he is a bit lucky, will possibly do so if you look at the polls as well as coming back as minister and who knows what I do not hope for, as Prime Minister. A lot of people in the Netherlands have suffered enormous pain. Their families have been destroyed. Their houses are sold. There have been Secretary of State, Mr Snel, and Ministers, Mr Wiebes, you have just called him Mr Wiebes, have resigned. But whoever's been responsible for everything for ten years is just going on laughing. In two months' time he will just sit down again and I know where he is and he thinks: we managed to do just as well, all the Netherlands in trouble, other ministers stepped down, but I am still sitting on my armchair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	First of all... I'm not a dog. I don't have a boss. That's not how it works in our party. Second. I do not run away from the responsibility borne by the cabinet members on behalf of my party over the past ten years, and for that too. They don't run away from that either. The entire cabinet has resigned. I regret, however, that the picture presented by Mr Wilders is quite one-sided. It is not the conclusion of the report: there is one man to whom everything lay. That's what the analysis doesn't do. It would give the impression that with the change of one person... I understand, of course, that is what Mr Wilders wants, because it is part of politics and the campaign that you prefer to be the largest yourself. But we would be failing the problem if we thought that replacing one or a few people would solve this problem. I regret that Mr Wilders ignores the conclusions of the report and its thorough work. He chooses to bet politically on one person. I get that. Then I'll talk about my party's list leadership. Parliament works in such a way that we control the government, but we do not deal with parties. That's what the voter's about. The party members are about who draws the list. You didn't pay the fee a while ago, so that's not your concern anymore. The voters judge how a party deals with its personnel policy, so they vote for people. I do not think that the resignation, the responsibility of a cabinet, means that members of that cabinet could then no longer have a political function or not be able to present themselves to the electorate, to ask for an opinion on themselves and the favour of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Apart from your party being involved, I am not in charge of that, but of course your party, Mr Rutte, is in charge of that. There's something left in front of that party. Mr Rutte could say: I will not do it. That's not the party. He says to the whole of the Netherlands on Friday in front of the camera: it is the voter who decides, it is the party that decides. Everyone decides, but he doesn't call himself. He could also decide for himself that he says: it is no longer credible to do so. Why doesn't he? Mr Weekers, Mr Teeven, Mr Opstelten, Mr Van der Steur, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Harbers, Mr Wiebes: everyone in the VVD who does something, resigns, but the big boss stays seated. In fact, I would not even be surprised if Mr Wiebes had resigned to protect Mr Rutte so that he could sit. Again, I'm not in charge. I'm just saying, how do you feel about all the smaller gods leaving, and the big boss just sitting around? You have once accused me of it, but you yourself are doing a thousand times worse: your own party makes party interests more important than national interests. I think that a lot of people in the Netherlands do not understand that the man who was directly and indirectly responsible for everything remains in place, while almost everyone resigns and suffers pain. That is the party interest over the national interest. In two months, he'll just go on wherever he's in politics, like nothing happened. That's very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's obvious. I sometimes have opinions about Mr Wilders' party, but I do not think that I should express that in Parliament. I think that people at home should judge what they think of the things that have gone wrong and the things that have gone well, how mistakes have been handled and how responsibility has been taken. They are best placed to weigh it when they cast their votes. I will cast my vote with complete conviction on the party that is currently delivering the Prime Minister, who is also the leader of the list. You spoke of lesser gods, but we do not know gods in our liberal party, except in a private environment. We will never presume to be gods, not even godsons. We are people who do our jobs and make mistakes. And if we make mistakes, we admit it. Then we weigh or we think we still have a lot to offer. In the end, we always place our fate in the hands of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	I heard Mr Dijkhoff say that he is right to think that the cabinet has drawn its conclusions and resigned. I have a question about that. Not so long ago I heard the same Mr Dijkhoff on the radio saying that he didn't really think it was necessary for the cabinet to resign. In fact, he said that all that would be symbolic in nature. So my question to Mr Dijkhoff is: when did he come to a new understanding? For that cannot be because of the conclusions of the report, the very harsh report, which was already there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, I didn't. At that time, I indicated that I can imagine that people think that the cabinet should resign, only looking at the content of the report. I have also put forward that the fight against pandemics, the fight against corona, is above everything for me at the moment. Honestly, that's still the case. I would not want anyone in the Netherlands to fear that we are no longer able to fight corona, because the cabinet has become a missionary. Last week I got the impression that it could go together more and more: you can take responsibility, as it is appropriate on the basis of the content of the report, and you can proceed well with the fight against pandemics. To be honest, this also had to do with signals from the opposition: we believe that the cabinet should resign, but everything that needs to be done must continue to happen around corona. That is a moving insight. Then at the point of symbolism. That is why I put it quite frankly as I put it: on the basis of the content, it is perfectly logical that the cabinet should have resigned. "On the basis of symbolism" has to do with the fact that the elections are of course not before. If you had this report last year and you step down, more will happen. So I was also wondering: are people going to understand at home that they're going to resign, then you're just gonna go on missionary again and that the elections are on the same date as they always were? Those were considerations for me to put aside in the recital as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's a bad story. There has not been anyone here in the Chamber, in my opinion, any opposition party, who has ever said that combating the corona pandemic must not be the top priority of the cabinet anymore. That's never been the question at all. That there are elections on 17 March and that they continue, people understand. What I think is really going on here is with the imaging. At some point it turned out that governing in the imagery was more harmful than stepping down and then it was said: we are leaving. Anyway, I also have a question about the legal protection of people. For Mr Dijkhoff said that people have not been able to achieve their rights and that this is very bad. Have the report and the whole premium affair given any new insight to the VVD Group, especially when it comes to improving the legal protection of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes. The next part of my speech is about self-reflection, which I shall speak about on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm very curious about that. Then I would like to hear from Mr Dijkhoff whether he recognizes the following. The point is that people cannot get their rights under the rule of law and that the rule of law is violated as it is in the case of the premium affair. People do indeed have................................................................................................................................................................................. Even a judge like the Council of State is no longer independent, but admits that we have given the Tax Administration some favors in relation to those people. At that time, Mr Dijkhoff must also admit, and I look forward to hearing in his reflection that the undressing of the legal protection of people and the ever-increasing cuts in the legal aid of people has been a mistake that needs to be repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	In particular, I do not think it should come to that, but I will say that further in my speech. You need it as a safety net, as ultimate help if the government has failed. But I think, frankly, that the government should not have the attitude: we are going to sit on one side unilaterally and if the citizen does not agree, he is going to go to court. Then you'd better find a lawyer or legal aid. It's a part, but I don't think it's the most crucial part. I wouldn't want us to just say that the government is going to look very one-sidedly at one side, and then we have to buffer it by having the citizens sue with legal aid. So I am not saying that it is not an important part, but I think that there are much more crucial steps to be taken before that, so that it does not end with a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Dijkhoff will deal with your question later. Mrs Marijnissen, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes, I do. Finally. If people can't live up to their rights, injustice will continue to exist. This report is called unprecedented injustice for a reason. It would be a credit to the VVD to admit in this debate, as regards access to justice for many people, that the VVD has stripped legal aid far too much. Those are not the people who can afford an expensive Zuidas lawyer, but the people who, for example, got into trouble in the premium affair. Indeed, if public mistakes are made, it is even more regrettable that these people cannot get justice in justice, in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	I understand Mrs Marijnissen's political point and I am not saying that it is nonsense or anything, but I am not getting it out of the report. The report says that there have been trials. More money for legal aid would not have ensured that the judge had made another judgment, which would have been better and more protected. It might have been easier for people to do more things, which they would all have lost in this case, and in which they would have been wronged. So I am not saying that it is not a good point, but I am trying today to look at the causal links between the political points we are raising and the analysis of the report. I will also mention a few other points in the self-reflection, in the hope that other parties will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Dijkhoff will tell us a lot more, but I have not yet heard him talk about ethnic profiling. The report doesn't say anything about that either. However, in July last year, a report was published by the Personal Data Authority. It actually says that on three points the Tax Administration has gone over the line. The use of dual nationality as a risk classification model is used in the fraud approach. Furthermore, I call it recording that data. This has not been allowed to do so since 2014, but in 2018 this data of 1.4 million citizens was still recorded in the system. How does Mr Dijkhoff view that part of the conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	You hadn't heard about it, but I was about a minute and a half. So it's not like I finished my story. I should like to raise this point. In this context, I cannot imagine why ethnic profiling is good. That's a bad thing. In fact, there is a risk, because self-learning algorithms are used. They say, "Where does most crime take place? Where most of the police are, because you notice it there." If you say in advance "let's look at people with a double nationality," then the risk is that you're going to look, find mistakes and maybe find fraud and think: well, it's a good thing we've been looking here. Then you go there again and you think "hey, that's a good indicator," when you might have found the same percentage of errors if you had looked at Brabanders celebrating carnival. Then you'd think, "Well, those carnival foursomes have a bad administration after all." In my case, it is, but that aside. The risk is that you create your own right, that you have a bias, without saying very consciously: I think those people are worse. You think it's a criterion, because you have to start somewhere. And then when you get results, you say, "Oh, we should get on with that." That's what happens when you let the self-learning systems do it. If you don't check it, you run the big risk of being sent to the place where you found something last time, without that meaning that it's worse there or that there's a good reason to look there. So you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Dijkhoff said at the beginning: in this case it makes no sense and is not good. Are there cases where Mr Dijkhoff does say 'the use of second nationality is a ground for control or, let me say, detention by the police or otherwise'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, not in advance. It may be annoying, but my background in science has taught me that you always consider something you don't know yet. But right now I can't think of an example that I think makes sense. But if you give me an example, I might think so, but at the moment I cannot give you an example of something that I think works that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	If you look on the street, then... Well, it's hard to see a double nationality through the car window. But you might be able to look very indirectly if someone has a tan. That might be possible, but I don't think that's a good reason to arrest someone. Sorry, holding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	This is clear and this goes against everything the VVD has said about this in the past. When it was about ethnic profiling with the police in 2016, Mr Zijlstra said: I just think that this is good police work. "Sustaining people with different origins, I like that police work." In my opinion, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has said that it should never do so, unless you use that policy to the benefit of that group. When Mr Rutte was sentenced in 2007 by the administrative judge for inciting racism, he even said: I didn't even know it couldn't be done, but I think it should be possible. So Mr Rutte said here to the municipalities in 2003: I want you to profile people ethnically. Does this mean the VVD is breaking up with that past?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	What you see is that something is sometimes called, but ethnic profiling does not happen on the basis of the behavior, but on the basis of the outcome. Then you must first examine whether ethnic profiling is the basis for this or whether it is the result of certain studies that people with a certain background and ethnicity are overrepresented. That is the reservation I want to make, because you cannot therefore say: if the outcome or what we see is not the same as the normal distribution of the number of members in society with that ethnicity, then it is always automatic ethnic profiling and wrong behavior. I'd like to make that distinction. You refer to a number of examples, but the Chamber must also look closely at how an incident is handled. After the Bulgarian fraud, of course, we said: how drunk is it that you do not check extra when someone from another country applies for something. Well, then you also ask as a Chamber to make that a significant part of the fight against fraud. So in that context, I can imagine you saying: we're putting an extra team on people from those countries, because we've seen those orange passes on that donkey cart there. It just should never be a standard part of your system that you have a bias on ethnicity or dual nationality. It must be short-lived and really happen on the basis of a clear signal if you take that as a test measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	Finally, Mr President. I have often heard that the approach to Bulgarian fraud... Mr Dijkhoff also started by saying that the Chamber has butter on its head. The fact is that some of this has already been done for Bulgarian fraud. The fact is, I didn't run into any of the victims I've spoken to, any of the Bulgarians. These are all Dutch. As far as I am concerned, it has not been established that they were affected by the system. They are not, as the Prime Minister says, a victim of the system. They are victims of the fact that civil servants on behalf of directors did not comply with the law. You cannot do 18 months in this country to deal with an objection and in the meantime destroy people. You can't withhold information in this country and obstruct justice. So I do not quite understand what Mr Dijkhoff means when he says 'we have a lot of butter on our heads', because we have asked them all. It literally says "I'm gonna take a moment with "Blokpoel really wants to turn everything off, so also surcharges, even if they're probably good. I told him he'd have to discuss it with Gerard. Then he's gonna discuss it with Peter and then it's gonna go to the Secretary of State." Why do civil servants withhold money from citizens who are entitled to it? That has nothing to do with a busted-out yacht, does it? That's just not sticking to the law, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Azarkan focuses on one part and explains that all other things are wrong. That's not true. Mistakes have indeed been made by officials who have not complied with the law, e.g. exceeding time limits for objections. That is indeed wrong; that is against the law. But the whole fact that there were any objections at all is because cases have been started under a ruthless law, whereby the civil servants complied with the law, where the judge also said "yes, that law is so harsh" and where the principle of proportionality has been declared out of order. You can say no, but that is also in the Chamber's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'm not defending those officials who broke the law, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	There's a group of parents watching and seeing that this really has nothing to do with it. This means that the discontinuation did not initially take place according to the rules. That's what the Ombudsman says in 2017. Literally, he says there: they stopped and then they asked for proof. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	No, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	And then people didn't get a fair chance. You say: no, the consequence of that action is that the rules have been broken further up. That didn't go well at first. A group of parents has probably been identified as fraud on the basis of nationality. I never should have. Those parents deserve to be talked about in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Azarkan is shouting all kinds of things like I don't find them. I never said those officials were error-free. I have acknowledged that it was in my speech, too, that these officials made serious mistakes, that those officials drew the law very much and made choices which are not really justified by the law. But they have also complied with the law as we have. We simply need to help these parents by compensating, and we need to prevent other people in the country from ever being in that situation in ten years' time or whenever. However, I do not think that we are entirely fair when we forget our own role. To point out our own role does not diminish an inch of errors made by the cabinet, by officials and by the judiciary. Just, I think we're failing people if we're just criticizing others and not looking at our own role, because then you don't have the whole picture. Again, I've said that before. I think that is also a pattern in the debate on this subject: if you mention something that is also wrong, besides it, then you are being pretended to ignore all the other mistakes. That's not true. That is precisely the biggest problem that puts these parents in trouble, because everyone in the whole chain in the government, every official, every branch, has made mistakes. So there hasn't been one place where it's been said: ho, stop, this is no good. Not the judge. In the civil service, it has once been said: this is going very far. This has not been achieved and the cabinet has not thought: perhaps we should do this more proportionately. That is one of the times I referred to, that you wanted to tell Frans Weekers to write down the good: this is very hard, this has to be more proportionate. That's when you think, "Yeah, keep going." Then the government wins a lawsuit and they think, "Yeah, well, we got it right from the judge. That's a little weird. For example, there are moments in history that you think would have gone on and on, but had done better. Maybe we should have done the same. Well, let me start with that self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u33	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u34	I will mention two examples, not pretending that it is exhaustive, that it is everything. I think that in my party too there was too one-sided a focus on the fight against fraud, without taking into account the risks that the new laws, which we very much wanted to combat fraud, brought to the good. I call it Bulgarian fraud, not because I see it as the beginning of all things. I also realize that things had already started with these mistakes before, but I find them illustrative, because when the mindset was in the Chamber, but certainly also in my party: this is unacceptable, take on the Bulgarians, take on the other fraudsters. The Chamber called on us, too, to: "Return the burden of proof. If anything looks like fraud, treat it if fraud has been proven to the contrary." Secretary of State Weekers agreed with that, too. It's not like he was the only warning. He said, "Whatever your room wants, so do I. But bear in mind that the good will suffer the evil ones." My party, too, with the Chamber, said: yes, that must be done. We will continue to consider the fight against fraud to be important, but in the midst of the fuss we should have distanced ourselves more. We should have distanced ourselves from the fuss about topicality. We should not only have focused on what went wrong there, but we should have looked at the broader picture: why did that go wrong, why could that easily go wrong, and what did it do to address those mistakes for risks for people who have done nothing wrong? Mr. Chairman. A second point is too little attention to implementation, at least for a certain part of the implementation. I'll be honest with you that if a cop knocks on our door and says that a stick is too short and he needs a longer one, we'll be able to find that part of the execution well; I often spoke to that part. But a tax official who lectures on the complex coherence of four already existing tax regimes and who says that it is going to be very difficult now that we intend to add two more, I have, quite frankly, come across less often. The report of the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations will be published shortly. I just feel like we're gonna see more clearly what we need to do better. As a Chamber, we would do well to do so, as would my party, too, in order to deepen the impact of the implementation in the event of far-reaching legislative changes. We must ensure that, after a legislative change, we are told what is working and what is not working properly, especially since rules here also lead my party to be sometimes born from what is politically necessary in order to find a compromise among ourselves. Or think of MPs seeking support for each other's amendments. Its feasibility is sometimes lost. After that, we have succeeded, because we have achieved something. Then we let it go as a chamber, but then it has to begin in the lives of people in the real world. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure there are other points to mention. I have heard a few colleagues suggesting further self-reflection in my circle. We will. I understand that GroenLinks raised the question of parliamentary self-reflection in a broader sense last week. We support that. I think it would be wise if we did not approve ourselves, but asked outsiders to keep a mirror in front of us. I am very curious to see how other groups view this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u35	First Mr Klaver and then Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u36	I very much appreciate Mr Dijkhoff's speech. It is a good thing that he says: we too are partly guilty of this; my group has also contributed to this. But it shouldn't just be "sorry." The question is, what's next? Actually, my colleague from the SP said it: look at how the VVD has hacked into social law in recent years. Mr Azarkan talked about ethnic profiling and how that happens. He said that risk profiles and self-learning algorithms are being worked on. I would like to add how hard the Participation Act has become. There's no room for people to live a little. The question to the VVD, to Mr Dijkhoff, is: what will he do in the coming weeks to adjust these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u37	I understand the rush. I don't know if you can fix it in a few weeks. I've already indicated, in the General Reviews, that we need to go to a strong government. I shall come back to that later in my speech. But that's not what we've seen now. There must also be room for human measure and we must put more trust in the officials who have the people who are responsible for them. Then you also have to accept that there are differences in that and that as a government we cannot regulate everything in advance. I understand that you can also say: there are cuts and there are consequences. That's right. It's not like those cuts were made because there was luxury, because there was enough money. We would have had to cut back on other things or increase the burden. We went through a time of crisis, where there was just less and there had to be cut. However, we have indicated before, for example around the NVWA, that we see that a deficit in implementation leads to a failure to enforce the rules properly. It is no longer possible to guarantee that what is on our board is safe and meets all the requirements. In that sense, you have to go to a strong government. There's got to be more room for that. That does not mean that we keep everything the same as it was and that there will be more money. I think that we should give more room for the officials to make a decision on what is fair and good and to distinguish between a mistake and fraud. Quite frankly, when we discussed the electoral programme, we considered including the right to make a mistake once a year. That's gonna save you a lot of trouble. That didn't make it, because I don't know exactly how to work it out and because I was afraid it would fall prey to campaign rhetoric. But of course I like the idea, because we all make a mistake sometimes. If you're going to make a lot of them or if it's a very big mistake with a lot of money going on, you're going to have to look out for it. But continuing to distinguish errors from fraud is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u38	I maintain that I really appreciate the fact that Mr Dijkhoff is putting his hand in his own bosom and saying: the VVD has also done things wrong in recent years, my group, and we as the House of Representatives. But then there's the question of how you're gonna fix that. Some things are very complicated. I mentioned earlier with Mr Jetten that we think that child care should go to another system and that you should finance that public. That's not gonna happen next week. We can now make a decision to start, but it will take some time. On 8 February, the amendment of the Participation Act will be discussed in the Lower House. There are many amendments. Let me make it very concrete. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me and will he support our proposal not to declare that bill controversial so that we can deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u39	Pooh, that... I don't have a group meeting in my head. I will take a serious look at it, especially if it helps to prevent this kind of problem. But I haven't quite gone through the list of "controversial" yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u40	It still has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u41	This is an important point, isn't it? I will come to another point, where you can take a step quickly: those self-learning algorithms. It is exactly as Mr Dijkhoff has described; he is furious about what is going wrong there and why ethnic profiling encourages discrimination and racism. We can agree to put those self-learning algorithms into social security until there's better legislation and we better understand what that means. Does he support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u42	First of all, I would like to know what the consequences of this are. I must therefore be consistent in what I have just outlined, otherwise I run the risk of principle or morality again. That may ultimately be decisive, but then I also want to know what that means in concrete terms, so that we do not say 'no' now, and we call a ruler here in a year's time because things have gone wrong. So I want to know how they can do it if they don't use this anymore. What's going to go wrong? Are there any people who might be disadvantaged by this? So I am not going to commit to that, but I am going to look at it critically, just as Mr Klaver mentioned earlier. Yes, I do self-reflection and I hope, of course, that all the other groups will do the same later. But take the funding of the childcare allowance. For a long time it was taboo for us to think about that. That was not so much because we think the funding is now very perfect. You have a government, you have entrepreneurs who offer services and you have parents who use that service. If I were to ask a quiz question "who is responsible for filling out all forms?', Then no one would get it right and say, "Well, the parents." That's not obvious. But my party is very concerned that direct funding is a way of replacing childcare with some kind of state crèches and that we no longer look critically at the question: does someone bring their child to work, or are there other reasons and, if so, do we really think that we should all be funding for that? Those fears of possible consequences of the alternative were reason enough for us not to want to think and talk about another way of financing. Even when we had settled in the previous cabinet, when Louis Asscher started working on it, we were not happy with it, not because we had already looked into it and looked at it, but simply out of fear of a possible result. Well, we won't have that taboo anymore. We are still opposed to state crèches and I am still in favour of a link between working parents and being able to use care, but we will find the proposal for a different form of funding 'free' complicated, which does not exist more open than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u43	Here, too, I see space. I have talked about it before; I see a kind of social majority emerging for a number of proposals, some of which will have to be arranged in the formation, but also some in the coming weeks. I really want to ask Mr Dijkhoff to give room for this and to work together to get the hardest things out of the Participation Act. The cost sharing standard has also been introduced in the previous Rutte Cabinets. That too is one of the steps that work unjustly. Parties in the Chamber, from left to right, take advantage of each other when there is another incident, to say: this is really not possible. Now we have the chance to move forward, because I see the self-reflection at the VVD. And to be honest, the question of whether we have butter on our heads or not can only be answered if, in the future, at the opportunities we have, we really dare to take on and change something in social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u44	If I had known the cabinet was being kept so missionary, I wouldn't have doubted it a few weeks ago. It's not like we share everything at once and find everything the same. I think that sometimes a whole standard should not necessarily be removed. Then we're gonna change whole rules and standards again, and I think you should also be able to distinguish between what you do when people are trying creatively to get more than what they're actually entitled to, and being silly about a bag of groceries. I do not necessarily know whether the removal of whole standards is the right recipe or the more human measure in application and compliance with it. There's still a difference for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u45	Okay. I have Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Jetten and Mrs Van Brenn. Just so you know, Mr. Dijkhoff. All for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u46	I won't finish the 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u47	Good. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u48	I also appreciate the fact that the VVD group represents the beginning of self-reflection here. I have two points on which I have questions. Certainly the Chamber should also look at its own role, but does this mean that the VVD says: we are actually sorry that we have stopped proposals for a parliamentary inquiry behind the scenes? 'Cause that certainly was on the table. It is fine to say today that the Chamber should also look at itself, but that proposal was already there and the VVD blocked it at that time. So can we count on the VVD not to block such proposals from now on, if it is necessary to complete the whole picture? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u49	In my opinion, we were not the ones who removed the Chamber from the investigation mission of the interrogation committee, but that aside. I do not know whether a parliamentary survey is the best way to do parliamentary self-reflection. These are all instruments in which the Parliament comes into a double role as a questioner and a semi-complainant and as a subject of investigation. That is why I think that, in order to reflect on the role of Parliament, we should simply have the guts to ask externals to help us to keep a mirror in front of us, with knowledge of how things work here, but not with a sitting interest or a party interest in it. I have already seen some incitings from journalism, books that are yet to appear with striking titles like this, we did not mean it, where I do see some clues for parliamentary self-reflection, but also the science, which I am sorry to say, is just one bit higher than journalism, to guide us in this, to look at their knowledge of other systems of what has gone through in patterns and to help us do that. We have, of course, done parliamentary self-reflection ourselves. When you read the report, there's a lot of weird stuff in there. But it didn't cause us to break through all kinds of patterns that had been beneficial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u50	I think so, too. But let's stick to the role of the Chamber. It may be that the Chamber has passed a number of laws that we should have just looked at more critically. I think we can establish that already. But then there were signals about the execution and there were two MPs, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten, who were trying to get the information out. And it was the cabinet that actively stopped the supervisory function of the Chamber. Why did they get away with it? Because the VVD supported that. So I'm also wondering... Because, yeah, that's how it works. The cabinet has great power with the Rutte style: ensuring that ministers can always say: yes, but I did not know; those signals have never reached me. The Prime Minister admitted in the interview that he was violating the Constitution by saying: if it suits me better, sometimes I do not send documents to the Chamber. And MPs who want to go after that always run into the fact that a party like the VVD keeps the cabinet as far as possible out of the wind. So they don't get much further on their hard work, and thanks to who we are here today. I would therefore think that this part, the failure to respect Article 68 of the Constitution and the failure to support Members of Parliament who follow it, should be at the top of the list of self-reflection of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u51	Look, this very quickly deprives me of the desire to work on this kind of thing in parliamentary cooperation, because this is obviously a heavily politicized... I wouldn't even say version of the facts. Let me say that I cannot reconcile Mrs Ouwehand's story with the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee. I'm not getting this out of there. You can see that instantly all kinds of motives are read and assumptions are bombed into facts that I don't share, which I don't recognize and which I don't see proven anywhere either. So yes, then it becomes quite complicated to do that self-reflection. That is why I think it is right to ask people who have no political interests in keeping it as pure as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u52	I was a little afraid of this. One of the very painful points of this whole affair, actually, is the scandal of course that the cabinet has abused its dominant position. You can't do that on your own. The only way to do that is if the Chamber lets you get away with it, but the Chamber is not one entity. We are dealing here with different parties, different variants, coalition parties and opposition parties, but the Constitution does not take that into account at all. We have a controlling task and if Members of Parliament are engaged in carrying out this monitoring task on behalf of all of us, we should support those people and not continue to support a cabinet that directly opposes those people in the Chamber. Mr Dijkhoff can say: oh, but you have no black-and-white proof of that. That's exactly the problem. I am accusing the VVD of that and I think we should get rid of it, otherwise you cannot keep saying with dry eyes: the Chamber should have operated better too. That's done, but they've resisted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u53	I think Mrs Ouwehand is skipping a few things here. I have appointed not only the work of the Chamber in a supervisory sense as part of self-reflection, but also that in the role of co-legislator. She herself has a throbbing version, in which she believes, of the facts in which there is little room for discussion, with accusations in which I do not recognize myself. So I'm just throwing it from me. Therefore, I am not going to fall into the political trap by disproveing an accusation to your address extensively if it is unfounded, and then reading that you were very defensive, because then I have to defend myself again against an accusation that I cannot reconcile with how I did my job and how I was ever allowed to do my work in the cabinet. So, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u55	I would like to thank Mr Dijkhoff for his self-reflection. I do think it is very beneficial to look at your own group on a day like today, and I hope to make my own contribution to that. There were two elements in his self-reflection that he briefly highlighted. The first was the fight against fraud and the risk that the good should suffer from the evils, which he says afterwards: we should never have done so, we should have listened to those warnings. The second was: let's take a very close look at the performance. There are other elements, and I have two questions. The first concerns a hardness clause in legislation. Mr Klaver was just talking about the Participation Act. Here too, for example, the Council of State says: look at the human dimension, at the space to apply that human dimension and deliver customization in individual cases. Is that part of the self-reflection, too? Does Mr Dijkhoff say, on behalf of the VVD Group, that we really need to keep the legislation under review on that point too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yes. I'll just pull it up. That is the third point in response to the cabinet: the principle of proportionality in administrative law. That doesn't always apply. You can suspend that by law. The hardness clause therefore lapses, so the court cannot apply it. I am curious, however, about how many laws we or our predecessors have overruled, how many times we have said: that does not apply here. My question is whether the cabinet can review this and reconsider it together with the Chamber. I am now almost inclined to say that we need to remove all these excesses, but let us look again at what we are doing and whether it is appropriate that the principle of proportionality has been repealed in those laws or not and should rather be open to harshness clauses. They also carry risks. They, of course, pose the risk that the whole policy will be undermined by a consistent recourse to the hardness clause. That becomes even more complicated when you have a law from here that is implemented by local government, but we have to correct it when it occurs. So, yes, if you don't have an outlet anywhere, you can't count on anyone lying in front of it. We have a comprehensive system of checks-and-balances, and this report indicates that it's really possible that they all don't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u57	We have put aside the harshness clause in the Fraud Act. Despite the fact that the Council of State said "you have to enter it," we in the Chamber said "we don't do it." Mr Dijkhoff has now come up with a rather general wording: yes, I am open to it, but we have to see if it is in place, otherwise it may derail again. Isn't that the crossroads or the intersection we're on right now, that we're saying we're starting from trust? Suppose the first government, for example the local government, which can really look people in the eye, makes a consideration of the Participation Act that perhaps the Dijkhoff or I say: I might have made different. Should we not say: we are now giving the local government, the municipality, and the official who makes that choice the benefit of the doubt? Isn't the time for us to say: we express that confidence in the first government? He has that conversation with the one person who stands in front and who sometimes sits in a very dependent position, who has just had messages from the mother whose letter of the law says that may not be allowed. A civil servant and an alderman can say: yet this is contrary to human standards and I think it is okay. Then I would say, please, let's give the first government the benefit of the doubt. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is whether he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u58	In my view, we have now corrected it by law in the case of the surcharges. Under the Participation Act, my impression is always, in those incidents, that it was already possible. That is where we have to look at the fact that we are not blaming for the lack of something that is there. Because of course it may also be that a choice is made locally, which we believe should have been subject to the hardness clause. Of course, that's what you keep keeping when you put the trust there. I believe that, in the end, there should be more freedom of movement and freedom of policy for the civil servant in question. It must have an article to appeal to. Perhaps a strange comparison, because Mr Segers asks me to do so, comes to mind, but we have also invested in asylum the discretionary power of administration and not politically. So there is still one, but it is now with the official who has the person in front of him and not with the ruler who, not unimaginably, is being put under pressure here in the Chamber after a media spectacle. So that's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u59	But then we say that, if there is a barrier, that may not be the letter of the law, but that it is at most the application of the official, which we say: hey, he could have taken more freedom and he did not take it. In any case, that seems to me to be the conclusion of this debate when it comes to the Participation Act and tailor-made work. Then I have a second question about supplements in general. We have seen that the system is so complicated that it involves so many payments and that it involves so much, perhaps, fraud-sensitive control that it has degenerate. My own party has said: we have to get rid of that. The Cabinet says the same thing. I have seen in the election programme of the VVD that the VVD is not yet ready or that at least there is no alternative. Is that indeed the political wish of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u60	That is well noted in the election programme. We have begun to write: that must of course come out; the supplementing system must, of course, be changed; we must get rid of that. That was almost the cup of a title. Then we went looking for alternatives and got stuck. At that time we felt that if we had no viable alternative, we would not be able to present it to the electorate. It doesn't say that we want to hold onto it at all costs. We need to find an alternative with each other. I already see parties of themselves think they have a very good alternative, but that is not an alternative that... Let us not pretend that we are all the same here in the Chamber in terms of politics. There is not yet an alternative that we find attractive. But it is not the case that we would like to stick to this system. However, we ourselves had no alternative that we thought was right; there are no gaps here and it does not show that ten thousand people are under stress because they are just outside of all the things that have been devised as an alternative to the program. So the wish is to get rid of it. We have tried this bravely once as a party, but we are also stuck in it. So it didn't seem to us to be the first thing to say that it has to be different anyway, but that's the wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u61	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's right, there's an alternative. There are alternatives, also an alternative on our part, calculated and accounted for. But there are also alternatives that are somewhat closer to the VVD in a liberal sense, for example from the colleagues of D66. So the alternatives are there, but the political will is and remains to get rid of the surcharge system and move towards a simpler and fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u63	Yeah, but my dad always said if I didn't do my best and complained that I didn't get it: you don't want it, you just wish it. So we have the wish. We also have the will, but we do not want to express it until we have something to say: this must be the alternative and this is what we are going to do. I think it is brave that everyone offers their own alternative, but we had not yet found the alternative that we thought was realistic enough and ripe enough to lay down. In any case it will never be any variant of any election program in the Netherlands, but somewhere we will find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u64	At the same time. Of course, Mr Dijkhoff says that this must never happen again. We all agree with him because, of course, in the heart of why this could have happened, there is that surcharge system. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff that it is easy to say that we should get rid of that. We also have to get rid of that, but of course we have to come up with alternatives. Mr Dijkhoff says that we have not yet found that alternative. Well, I haven't been able to read all the programmes yet, but at least in the Labour Party's programme it says: for example, make sure that you finance the childcare public and that it is accessible to everyone; break out that market operation. GroenLinks finds that and since yesterday, I believe, also D66 welcome to the club. Why don't you find that interesting? That's a simple procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u65	I almost fall back into old reflexes because I think Mrs Ploumen says something I can go along with. But she immediately links a few other things that I think: yes, ho, I don't like that. We have good shelter now. Parents are generally satisfied. Entrepreneurs must do their best to provide good care, not only according to the basic quality standards but also on top of that. The entrepreneurs who run a good shelter don't do anything wrong. I wouldn't deny them their bread. And to all parents who are happy to send their child to a quality care facility, apart from the funding, I would not say that everything has to be different. That's why we said before: don't start this path, because before you know it, they want to turn it into state crèches. That is not what you are transparent about, but that is what we do not want. But you can see if you can facilitate the flow of funding. Let me give you an example that is not too far away from me, even though I don't get that much with other people anymore. Imagine that one of the two working partners is not employed. Then you started to have freedom for yourself, but then you can still make an hour review every day. Those are things that might come out and that don't make sense. Most parents will think: I pay it and then I get money again; do it directly. I think we should definitely take that step, but I am not in favour of saying straight away: all these companies must get out; all of this must become public services and then anyone, without a clause, can bring their child there, whether the parents are working at that time or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u66	Coincidentally, this morning, I received a message from the director of child care that my children sat on a long time ago. She said: "We have invested enormously with each other in quality and my heart bleeds as I see how childcare is now being looked at. Lilianne, you can't make sure that it's just publicly funded and that the whole market mind is demolished." That's something completely different from state crèches. This is also guaranteeing high quality childcare. I would like to invite Mr Dijkhoff. He's now explained three times why he doesn't think he can. In any case, read the Labour Party's programme and I hope you will agree with us that this is really a better radical solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think you can organize things privately and fund them publicly. That's all I'm saying. I'm not saying no, we're not gonna do anything. All I'm saying is we can find each other in step one. But it seemed as if Mrs Ploumen automatically attached this to it. I have every respect for her wanting to do so from her party, but for me it should not be automatic and it is not the only way to improve it, because we have very good childcare. It does not mean that the organisation of this reception should be completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u68	It is to be appreciated that Mr Dijkhoff is the first speaker in this debate to begin with a piece of self-reflection. I hope we will see that more in the debate. I kind of missed that Friday at the press conference and just before the statement, so I hope that's gonna come out a little bit more from Vak-K as well. Mr Dijkhoff replied to Mrs Marijnissen's first question on self-reflection: we have sometimes had to make choices in recent years and we did not make them out of luxury. But it's about access to justice. I just looked up a quote from Mr. Teeven, who was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice on behalf of the VVD. He said, "It was no longer a question of intertwining criminal law. That's when I focused on cutting back on the law. It's another way of achieving the same thing. If you don't give a lawyer too much time, it won't be that much with that defense." That is what Secretary of State Teeven said, who was responsible for Justice and for the access of Dutch people to justice. Speaking of self-reflection, I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff how he looks back on that kind of quotes and whether he agrees with me that the VVD in Rutte I and Rutte II has deliberately reduced access to the law for many Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u69	It's always the same quote. We've distanced ourselves from that many times. So yes, I can do that again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u70	That would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u71	That's good. Here's to it. Then I'll do it again. I was his successor. It's not like I'm gonna find anything... I'll never find the same thing. I always find something different from my predecessors. Legal aid should be available for people who can't afford it. So I am also very much in favour of the fact that people take responsibility and take legal aid insurance, and therefore do not have to call on collective provisions immediately in all cases. That is why we have tried to build a new system, in which we look critically at where it is needed. I've always been in favour of... But not along the line of that quote, because it would only apply in criminal law. In administrative law, you shouldn't want it anyway, and in criminal law, you shouldn't want it either. I'm in favour of fewer lawsuits anyway, so I'd rather invest the money in preventing lawsuits. I have been able to do so for a few years. You do this through modules for parents who still love their children but no longer love each other. They bring them to an arrangement in a smart way to prevent it from ending in court. It costs money. If you can prevent it from leading to legal proceedings and so you also have to make less use of legal aid, then that is good, because there are fewer conflicts. That should be the reason how you end up at a lower cost and not the other way around, as in that quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u72	That is where things may already go wrong: that we are talking about basic access to the law as a cost, that we are considerably increasing registry rights there, which makes people less likely to go to court, and that we are in the way of social lawyers for years, so that people do not feel helped when they want to stand up to that powerful state or someone else. It all contributed to that. I did get this quote back, though, because words matter. I would like to challenge Mr Dijkhoff to do so. He has now rightly reflected on choices that we as a Chamber have made wrong when it comes to supporting overly strict legislation or not handling amendments from the Chamber. But one of the roles that we have played as a chamber is that we always talk about vulnerable people in our society in a high tone of voice. So this is Mr Teeven's quote, but this is also about a VVD leader and Prime Minister, who talks about 'pleasure' or the dumping of Antilleans. Whether it is a VVD group chairman who is here in this house, in the most important debate of the year, advocating post-code discrimination. It is that kind of terms and that kind of way in which we have talked in recent years about vulnerable people in society, which have led to hardening and which have led people to think in the implementation: politics expects us to do so. It would also be good to look back on that and also say: we should not do that with each other anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u73	If Mr Jetten is giving his sermon, then he must have his facts in order. Then he should not put the frame of another party and the reproach of postcode racism to my address now, in my mouth. I never argued for that. That's the word I used in the negative, at most. Well, I know framing works that way, when you deny something a lot, the negative word sticks, like Nixon said "I'm not a crook." But that doesn't mean it's true. I didn't argue for that. If words are so important, if you go so high on horseback about the quality of words, then you must at least apply them yourself. In that sense, I'd almost say you're finished. But let me just get into it. Of course words matter. But clarity is also important. I still think you should go hard on fraud. Only what happened was that we called here "we have to tackle fraud against fraud" and that the people who are not fraudsters were labeled as fraud at once. I also believe that people in vulnerable neighbourhoods should be protected from the crime they are already dealing with, which means that young people are even more exposed to the temptations of this crime. That I wanted to do something about it, I still fully support it. So, yeah, that I used words, as far as they hit people in a way I didn't want, I talked to them. I went to those neighborhoods and had some good conversations with them. So I always answer for words. Sometimes I mean them very skinny, but they end up on a T-shirt. I take account of the effect of my words, but that doesn't mean that you have to talk with flour in your mouth or that that is the cause of what happened here. It's true that it can lead to cannabis narrowing. That, as in the case of Bulgarian fraud, we think 'fraud, fraud, fraud' and we lose sight of how many percent of the cases are actually involved. And that we lose sight of the fact that there are also a lot of people whose accounts look the same at a distance but where the cause was not fraud but a mistake. I mean, you might just think that we're all upset here that a Secretary of State, a govern ment, hasn't acted because it's obvious that 31 September doesn't exist. Then it may be that someone was cheating, but it may also be that someone thought: another hour list, I copy-pasted that last month. And that month had 31 days. So it looks the same from the outside. So I'm happy to account for words, but that doesn't mean you can't say anything after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u74	I appreciate that answer, because Mr Dijkhoff also advocated that the Chamber should look at how to improve its own role in the next period. This can be done with the help of the outside world, by better thinking about it as chamber committees, but as far as I am concerned, it also begins with the way in which we debate challenges in this house that we see in society, and with the labels that we place on people in society. I am pleased to hear that Mr Dijkhoff is also taking this into account in his self-reflection of the role of the Chamber and how it can do so better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u76	In our speech we will certainly look at the role of the Chamber. I think that's only logical. I was a little disappointed that the VVD doesn't see any possibility of doing anything about the surcharge system. 50PLUS has offered a plan to the Prime Minister and also to the President of the VVD. Those are building blocks. I understand that the VVD's plan doesn't look like that of 50PLUS, in which at least the people with the lowest and middle incomes are making financial progress, but they are building blocks. I would like to invite the VVD to take a good look at that again, because there are choices to make. I understand that the VVD makes other choices than 50PLUS, but to do nothing while this should be a priority of the next cabinet... I would like to say: accept that challenge. And could I at least get a response to the plan of 50PLUS?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u77	I am very concerned that we have not succeeded in drawing up a plan that we thought would be: this is it, this must be it. The least we can do is look at everyone else's plans and see if we can get a synthesis out of it that could become it. You know my party: we are always happy to implement it. But that's what the voter's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u78	I would like to comment on another point that has not been raised by anyone. Tomorrow, we're going to vote on public disclosure. We had a debate on that. There are motions and almost all of them have been dissuaded. We're asking for openness. We have now received a letter from the cabinet in which it talks about a radical turnaround. They're not gonna do anything like that, they're not gonna do anything Ruttedoctrine, and they're gonna respect Article 68 forever from now on. Does this mean we're gonna vote differently tomorrow? Is that what you're gonna do as a VVD? After all these negative rejections, are we going to vote in favour of the proposals from the Chamber for greater openness, all of which have been rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u79	I suspect that there are also motions that are not yet supported by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u80	I'd still like to ask about ten years of VVD. We've seen colleagues wrestling to get information on the table. We have seen how important notes from officials have been withheld, whether accidentally or not. But there was no openness. And now we need to have the confidence that this turnaround is radical? To what extent will the VVD itself contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u81	I do not have the feeling that it was all open and transparent until ten years ago and that it changed in one go. I'm gonna take a little distance from that. Ten years of VVD is a fact, and before that we were allowed to participate more often than not, but I do not have the impression that it is something of the last ten years. I honestly think that there may be more calls for information now, but that information must be there. As a ruler, I never had the idea that I couldn't change anything or open it up. Think of incident reports on prisons or asylum-seekers' centres. I never got a call from AZ saying "don't do that." If there was any suggestion at Wob requests about a personal policy idea as a ground for refusal and I said "I think that's a little faint, let's just do it," I never got a phone call that wasn't allowed. It's the law that sets the ground for refusal. I understand the cabinet that it gets very complicated when you say we'll use it differently. It's gonna be a mess. Okay, then scrape it. It will also require something from us when we have all that information, because you can always ask more. There will still be officials who eat a sandwich over lunch and discuss something of their work. Then they don't walk to the office to type out both conversation reports and ask each other: is this about what we said? So there will always be things, unless we start banning that kind of thing or if everyone can always follow everything that happens, like in the book The Circle by Dave Eggers in which one parliamentarians starts wearing a bodycam permanently. We can consider that, but the book doesn't end well. So there will always be things. Reporting must be in order anyway. Once again, we have asked questions that have yet to be answered. But if we ask about two years ago and it's not documented properly then, you'll never get that answer. I think this will have a disciplining effect, because you know that you will have to produce a whole dossier and that the crucial moments will have to be in it. As a ruler, I have sometimes thought: this is complicated, so I would like to talk to people about this. After all, we now say: if people get an angry letter, they want to talk to someone. So you talk to people and ask your officials with you. Then you make appointments and there will be a follow-up or a note. There's no verbatim record of that meeting. Then if you're asking about a meeting five years ago about life imprisonment or something, I don't know if we've discussed three or five cases. The fact that everything will be open soon raises the question of how we deal with it. What are we asking about? What's relevant to know? And do we deal with all the pieces we have carefully? This was not solved at once by having more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u82	My final point. It's still very strange. Last week, we debated the openness of government and an open government. There was a lot of negative advice then, but now we get a letter saying: we're going to do something radically different from now on. Surely we should ask ourselves whether it is not worthwhile for the cabinet to take another look at these advices, so that it might repent in response to this letter, which sent the network in response to the POK investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u83	Whether that's appropriate is up to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you to Mr Dijkhoff for that self-reflection. In the report, in the report, the working group also invited all state powers to do so. I recognize very well what Mr Dijkhoff has said. I notice from the interruptions that there is a lot of helpfulness in helping the other person with self-reflection. Well, self-reflection is always the strongest when it comes to yourself. So I'm also looking a little bit for the common and what we as Chamber, as an institution, could actually do better, so that we don't get stuck with just debt and fine, which are also important, but also really practical looking at how to proceed. Now I hear Mr Dijkhoff say: as a Chamber, we should actually be more involved in the evaluation of laws and give more substance to them. Can he elaborate on that? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u85	Yes. Of course, we can ask Cabinets for reports and spreadsheets with numbers, but it's just as well to have conversations as a Chamber with people in the execution to better understand the situation. If you get a traffic ticket now, you can happily pay it spread instead of just getting a fine and an increase on increase, because that doesn't solve the problem, but increases it. But the seed of it was laid when I, as Secretary of State in Leeuwarden, went to work and just talked to people and asked: what about, can't you just call these people? It was said, "I can do that, but I can't; that's not the rule; that's not the law; then you must make sure that I get the order to call people." And then I thought, "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, This often gives you a lot of knowledge of how things work in practice. I have also noticed in a different way that the implementing authority said a and that a ruler used the b-word. Well, in the end, the implementing authority turned out to be right. The policy tower said "no, it can't be" while the implementation organization said: well, we've been doing it this way for years; we've had advice on that, and it's possible. I think that we need to bring that much more in and have the conversation more directly and that we should not, as some sort of intermediary, just ask the policy-makers if they can continue to ask for the execution, which then goes past all those links.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u86	I also think it is very good to address this point as a Chamber in concrete terms, so that we too, in the context of legislative evaluation, do not say 'the university makes the report, there is a letter from the government, we have a brief general discussion and that was the weather', but also make it more explicit to hear people about the effects of legislation. Then we can adjust from there as well. I was looking back and then I noticed that in an unsolicited opinion from the Council of State in the summer of this year there was also talk of a bumpy interplay between civil service, cabinet and parliament. This point has already been mentioned in concrete terms. Then I thought: yes, such a report just goes back into the drawer, instead of picking up these kind of signals, which are already given in reports, in good time. That's also a piece of self-reflection. Now we actually need a big issue, a great tragedy, which we are talking about today, so that we can move forward. So how can we deal better with reports that already contain these kinds of points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u87	Let me say something wild: perhaps we should just do topicality and politics one day a week, and three days a week boring things that are really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u88	Also a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u89	Yeah, a suggestion, too. That brings me to my last point. We do not get all this discussed now, but it is an example. If we have all kinds of debates here, following a lot of incidents and newspaper reports, and rightly so, we run the risk of not getting enough attention to this kind of slower reports, which do put the finger on the spot. Today, I see all kinds of good intentions again, but also problems with information provision How do you deal with them? These are already covered in some of the previous reports. So how can we ensure that we do not go back to the order of the day, but as a parliament monitor that these learning points are actually being learned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u90	Actually, I was pretty serious about my proposal. I understood it led to laughter. In political groups too, of course, you can make a division in that. Some people then simply do not deal with actuality and will be rewarded and appreciated for the thorough work they have done outside the scope of the screens. Look, the "feedback loop" of reward often runs through media and current events. Of course, the chance that you can make the news or put on an evening to talk about a very tough, technical, but actually very important fundamental subject is a lot smaller. And when I get a reaction to a... the more nuanced it is... you're all called by the media that say: you're definitely against it. Then I say, "Well, I actually wanted to read it. "Yes, but we're looking for someone who's against." "Okay, well, then you need to make a phone call." Then there's someone from the competition who says he's against it. Then you're told, why aren't you sitting there? Well, because I actually wanted to read the piece first. That's not the media's fault, is it, or I'll get it again? We'll contribute to those dynamics. We'll take part in that. How do you break that basically? Not by good intentions. Perhaps what I just mentioned is quite radical, but it might help. We have, of course, thought that we have topical and urgent questions and that we are talking about legislation and fundamental debates for the rest of the week. But of course that's not how we do it now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mrs. Marijnissen. Very briefly, because I would also like to give Mr Dijkhoff the opportunity to conclude his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u92	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. However, I think that Mr Dijkhoff gives a fascinating insight into what seems to be happening in the VVD group, how they are doing their work here as representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yeah, yeah, we're the only ones for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u94	Well, I would like to point out that our working methods are different, especially in the debate on the subject we are discussing today, namely the premium affair. I would remind you that it was my colleague Renske Leijten who showed with her hotline that this was not just an incident with a group of parents, but an institutional problem involving thousands, thousands, thousands of parents being crushed by the government. There is indeed some laughing about contact with people, about a hotline or a black book of ours, but I think that is exactly what we are here for. We're people's representatives. The contact with these people and their story tell here: that should be taken more seriously. In my view, that would be a whole part of the solution to the problem you have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u95	I understand the content Mrs Marijnissen brings in very well. I will say something about that in a moment, but I do not really understand why she combines this with what I just said, because I did not criticise it. In the party itself, it's just a stick horse. I always point to the SP, with praise and congratulations, and say that we should take the ombud function of a people's representative much more seriously. That's something completely different from a media dynamic I was talking about. I can see that Mrs Leijten would like to say something, but it has to be through you, otherwise I cannot hear it. On the contrary, I think that we should bring the consequences of what it does to people much more directly. That's what I tell city councilmen. The risk is that after a few years you become someone who reads the pieces he gets, then type questions and send them back to someone else, who sits somewhere else to read your questions and type pieces that you can read again. So you just have to look up the problem. You need to find the people who face a problem. The deepest effect of what we decide here, you need to get here to feed you, to see if you're doing your job right. That is quite different from what I just described, namely that sometimes we lose a lot of time, not to problems of real people who have to translate into policy, but to internal dynamics, which are sometimes also very media driven. In my view, these are two separate chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u96	I look forward to seeing the VVD's new or modified M.O. I think we are all there ourselves, as to how far you go in what you call the "media dynamics." But it is even more agitated, so I stepped forward to make this point, because it has also been parliamentarians, Leijten and Omtzigt in the lead, for whom that controlling function has simply been made impossible. I'm okay with it and I'm okay with the Chamber looking at itself. I'm very much in favour of that. We are also proposing a parliamentary inquiry so that the role of the Chamber can be fully taken into account. That's all fine. But what is wrong here is that it was just parliamentarians who received signals from people, who told us here and asked for clarification over and over again, but that this was simply covered up. People just didn't get the answer they asked for. The truth turned out to be an option. It was only when it really was no longer sustainable that it came on the table. We have just seen another example of this. Last night, a whole load of new information was sent for today's debate. You can't do your job as a people's representative in a serious way, can you? Mr Dijkhoff rightly points to the role of the Chamber. Mrs Ouwehand certainly has a point. We all have a different role in it, I think, but it's fine to look at it. But it is true that they were parliamentarians who were onto things, but have been sent over and over again and again with a brat in the reed. Then why don't I hear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u97	I think I've said a lot about that. I will also come to the information services further down the road. It's complicated to me anyway. You're getting mad at something I think I didn't say wasn't. I did not say that those parliamentarians were not doing their job properly. When you do self-reflection, of course the risk is that the rest doesn't do self-reflection but throws in some more. That's okay, too. But one of the sources of inspiration for what I said about the functioning of the Chamber was a podcast with SP colleague Van Raak I heard. He reflected on business and said some sensible things about it. He didn't criticize his own party or group at all, or anything like that, but he just gave sensible reflections. I thought, well, yeah, he's got a point. I actually thought I would find some kind of commonality in that, but it is not here today. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u98	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yes, Mr. Chairman. My group supports the cabinet response. In addition, I have a number of points to make. A dispute between the government and the citizen should not be the same as a dispute between two private parties. The attitude, as we often read in the reports, should not be that officials say to each other: if it goes a little too far or the parents disagree, then they just go to court. It's not a practice court or an advocacy contest. It's real life with real people in an unequal position. It is not: we in the service against them are the possible fraud. It's from the government looking for the truth: is it fraud or is it a mistake, is it a misunderstanding or is the law perhaps too difficult? You should have an internal counterpart thinking the other way before making a decision. You can expect that from the government before it sends an angry letter. I read in the cabinet's response that people want to look more at mediation to get softer out of it, but shouldn't this counter-thinking have to happen much earlier, before you even get into a dispute? You shouldn't ask the same person or the same team to do that either, so to see if it really is, because you always have the risk of tunnel vision. Just as you sometimes have in detective investigations, you should have a critical counterpart, trying to get all the weaknesses out of the reasoning. Shouldn't that already be part of the considerations internally? If at the end of the day the conclusion is that, of course, it is possible that this angry letter should come and that there really is a suspicion of fraud, then you should be able to talk to someone who listens to you. I can see that in the letter: it can be digital for most cases if it goes well, but if it gets tricky, you really have to find a listening ear. I myself have also had a letter that I immediately panicked about, which I thought: what is this and how can that be? To be honest: the citizen only sees the amount and whether it says "to be paid"; that is what it says mostly, and not "to be received." Then the panic strikes. You're thinking, "I sent this or that," right? Then I just want someone on the phone to tell me: okay, I'm gonna go see if it's like that, or else send it on again and then it's gonna be okay, but if you're screwing around, you've got a problem. In any case, then, I am also the same for many other people, and I have the feeling that I am being heard. I have already mentioned the principle of proportionality in Mr Segers's interruption. My question to the cabinet is whether that is wise to do. The Cabinet letter also states that the system of surcharges was too prone to fraud and that led to a call for more control and enforcement. That's right, but I think there's one more thing. The system is also too prone to error because it is so complicated and demands too much from people. People have to live their lives and do their own work. To get a little compensation for the costs they have to incur in life, they have to deliver a lot of administration. If something is very wrong-prone, then you get a lot of mistakes as well. Those bodies, like I said before, from a distance the same as fraud. It is not only, as the cabinet says, that you get a call for more control and enforcement. You also get a bigger suspicion, because you just see something that isn't by the book more often. There is a greater chance that people who have made a mistake will be treated as fraud. Then there's the information. The cabinet chooses openness as a standard. This is good and necessary for the media and parliament to be able to do their job properly, to see what choices have been made and decisions are made. It then gives us the responsibility to deal fairly with the information on how officials and directors do their work. It asks us to read these pieces carefully, paying attention to the context, and not to shop selectively in the pieces to get them into a political cart. It also calls for a different way of protecting civil servants. I honestly think that in a few years' time the call will come that they want to be able to justify themselves. That's a complicated state law. Increasingly, even in recent years, I have noticed that here in debates all the time names of hardworking officials or advisers are being mentioned, for example, the OMT, from which we all know people, not only compliments, but in fact they cannot say anything at all. If we do that too much, we create a new problem. Finally, Mr President. In the General Reviews, I advocated a strong government. That's not what we saw here. What we have seen is a dumb, brutal force that can crush people but is not smart and strong enough to give critical sounds space, recognize the messiness of real life and distinguish mistakes from fraud. The injustice that has been done is no longer right. The scars will remain. Compensation is required. That's gonna have to be rushed. From now on, it is our expensive duty to turn the lessons of this misery into a better practice, into a strong government that is more concerned with why it went wrong and how to prevent it than just the question of who to blame in the political arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. One question, Mr. Azarkan, because with the exception of Mrs. Marijnissen, you have asked most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u101	I think Mrs Marijnissen was allowed to put two, so if you don't mind, I'll put two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, you may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u103	You always keep me very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u104	No, I'm not. You asked five questions. This is your sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u105	I didn't know that was the deal in advance. I have a question for Mr Dijkhoff. I've listened very carefully. I appreciate him reflecting quietly. He's looking at the case remotely. He speaks administrative words about that, as you might expect. I've been really listening and thinking for the last hour: why can't I personally reflect on this so calmly? I have a family member who's now in a burnout because he's been mistakenly called a fraud. I have friends whose business has been destroyed because they have a childcare allowance organisation. I have acquaintances who have been wrongly described as fraud. I was just genuinely wondering if there were people in your network who called you and said: Klaas, what has happened to me now with that almighty government; I am just being destroyed. I was just genuinely wondering. Do you know anyone in your network who's done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yeah, I... Yeah, but I don't really need to use their stories here for my political story. That's everyone's right, but when people tell me something, they tell me. If they say they want me to bring it in, I'll bring it in. I think that's part of the ombud function we've been talking about before. We used it quite well in the corona crisis. Then it is true that I am not literally interpreting the misery that has come to my attention. That's not how I do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV, but we shall first clean the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr. Chairman. When I said during the last General Political Reviews last September that the Netherlands is no longer a rule of law, the whole Chamber fell over me. But the supplemental scandal shows it again. The arbitrariness prevails. We are governed by a now outgoing cabinet that has lied to Parliament, for years misinformed and incompletely informed and withheld important documents, such as the Palmen Note, so that the Chamber could not apply control and timely correction. Nine thousand supplement files were supposedly accidentally destroyed five years too early. For the judiciary, which didn't exactly stand up for the victims, relevant documents were also withheld by the Tax Administration. Hundreds of thousands of people were illegally blacklisted. Mr. Chairman. This sounds like a story from Cuba or North Korea, but it all happened in Mark Rutte's Netherlands. This cabinet has obscured the truth, violated the rules and violated democracy and the rule of law. Prime Minister Rutte has a very big mouth on the functioning of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, but when he looks in the mirror, he sees a prime minister of a country run by a sick and corrupt government that has shamelessly outlawed tens of thousands of innocent people. Mr. Chairman. Of course, real fraudsters need to be dealt with hard. I don't think anyone here disagrees with that. But instead of dealing with real fraudsters, innocent people have been hunted down and criminalized. Without the Chamber knowing and without the law asking for it, huge amounts were recovered in the case of minor administrative defects and the all-or-nothing approach was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr President, Mr Wilders is right. Innocent people have become victims of a witch hunt. But that witch hunt is partly motivated by the ethnic profiling we've been able to see. And if for years now there has been one champion of ethnic profiling in this Chamber, that is Mr Wilders. May I conclude that he is now absolving himself of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, we don't distance ourselves from anything. The picture is that people have been viewed on the basis of a double nationality. That's already something that doesn't add up. A dual nationality was not an indicator, but non-Dutchity was an indicator. So the IRS didn't give people an indication based on double nationality. They have used this non-Dutch nationality as an indicator. Maybe that wasn't smart. But I would very much like to say that I am sorry that this is no longer possible, because the government has stopped registering nationalities and that everyone's nationality would at least be registered by the tax authorities or the municipality. I'd love that. And not to always use the nationality of someone as a risk indicator; I would not be in favour of that. But we would be crazy not to use it as one of the risk indicators if we saw that Romanians or Sweden commit disproportionate fraud with surcharges, or with assistance from municipalities. Again, we should not then check all Romanians and Sweden, but we can use that as some kind of risk indicator. Surely we would bind the fraud fighters with our hands behind our backs if we could no longer see another Bulgarian fraud and could no longer act against it. I don't think it's ethnic profiling, I think it's common sense. I am not saying that we should register a different nationality with everyone in advance as a risk indicator, but if you see that something happens and 500 Romanians in one go lead to fraud, then it would be very good again, unfortunately it can no longer add being Romanian as a risk indicator. If we don't do that, we're just gonna make sure there's more fraud. The left is really going crazy, trying to ban it. Again, I'm afraid we can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u112	It's just ethnic registration. It is simply discrimination that Mr Wilders has been advocating for ten or twenty years. That's what he's doing here now. So-called compassion with the victims? It's just untruthful; stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u113	Well, I hope that Mrs Ploumen, if she is really elected as a list puller right away, will show a little bit more and not just walk away after half a sentence. You just didn't listen to what I said. You've just fantasized a little bit, and that's what you agreed with yourself before you came here. You're not responding to one point of what I'm saying. Not at one point of what I'm saying, you're reacting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u114	I am talking about my own answer, but if Mr Wilders often wants me on the microphone with more detailed questions and answers, please. Then I'm prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u115	Respond to what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u116	He wraps it in some sort of harmless jacket of risk management, but it ends up in whatever Mr. Wilders is trying to do. I had a note with everything from his election program. It's about ethnic profiling. It is about tackling people on the basis of their background and nationality. It even says in the election program: let's make sure we know who Antilian is. That's not risk control at all. That's just discrimination, and that's not allowed. I can say it briefly and I can say it for a long time, but this is the essence of it. I have nothing more to say about Mr Wilders' compassion for the victims. I repeat, in one word, untruthful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u117	Once again, the honourable Member does not respond at all to what I have said. She's gonna sit down again. That's okay, but she's not responding at all to what I said. What I said is very clear. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible, because, as you know, nationality will no longer be registered from 2014. So it can't be anymore. I'm sorry about that and I've always resisted it. But I think the tax authorities should be able to do this, but also the municipalities. They often come across facts, for example having extra houses abroad. For anyone who applies for a supplement, you should simply register whether you are a Dutchman, have a different nationality or if necessary both. That's not scary at all. You do that to Dutch people, too. You're registering it. Otherwise, you're not gonna do anything with it. The mere fact that you are Romanian or Dutch and Romanian is no reason for me to say: that must be immediately in the risk assessment. You don't have to. It shouldn't be a risk indicator. But should it prove, when the municipality is engaged in the welfare fraud, or when the Tax Office is engaged in the surcharge fraud, that you see 7,000 Greeks cheating at once, or do I know what nationality, it would be extremely foolish not to register having Greek nationality? That will then happen for a good reason, because at that time Greeks have been over-frauded. Once again, Madam President, they have not done so as far as I know, so let me say this in theory. Then it is quite logical that they add, as a risk indicator, the Greek nationality, so that with ten, twenty, thirty, forty, how many risk indicators are there? Other risk indicators pop up when you think about fraud and apply for a supplement in Greek. That makes perfect sense. If we don't... And again, there's nothing scary about that, because that's what you do to people of Dutch nationality. That's what you're registering. So there is no discrimination at all. The moment that happens, you can fight fraud. If you don't, Mrs Ploumen, if the Labour Party already thinks that's discrimination, then you won't see the next Bulgarian fraud anymore. You don't see them anymore and you know who's laughing? Not the taxpayer, but the people who cheat. The people who do not cheat, the people who are now victims, will then be taken. That is incredibly stupid, and that is why my proposal is the most social and the most effective proposal, and your proposal is a very stupid one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u118	You rarely hear it so bluntly and so loudly: pure discrimination, pure racism! And we know that from Geert Wilders, because he is simply submitting motions in which he says: asks the government immediately to start an investigation into non-Western immigrants. If anyone is the exponent of the culture in which people are taken from and destroyed on the basis of their origin, that is Mr Wilders. This is your policy. This is what you always wanted. These are mostly people of different origins. These are Turkish, Moroccan, Antillean and Surinamese Dutch. They are not protected by you, and you should therefore be pleased with those results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u119	I hate what happened. And again, there's no double-nationality check at all. Anyone who says that here: read the report of the Personal Authority, the AP. It simply states that it has not been demonstrated that fraud has been checked or selected for double nationality. That just didn't happen! What has happened is that a distinction has been made between Dutch and non-Dutch. If people had a dual nationality, if they were Dutch and non-Dutch, if they were Dutch and had a dual nationality, then they were simply considered Dutch by the tax authorities. If they had a double nationality, of which the Dutchmanship was one, they would simply be regarded as Dutch. So what you're saying didn't happen at all. What happened is that she then... What went wrong was not so much the registration on ethnicity, because that, again, did not happen at all. You've got that in your head and you thought "I'm gonna catch Wilders" but it doesn't add up. No double-nationality checks have been carried out. What happened is that people were caught and labeled a fraud when they weren't. People were blamed for being grossly blamed, so they didn't get legal aid and they didn't get debt relief. As a result, they did not receive a proper payment period. These are all things that have happened in this process, often when the law didn't ask for it and often when the Chamber didn't know it. Things have happened that have led to this misery, but the use of nationality versus not nationality is not the cause of this misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr Wilders did not read the file. I've got it right here. It literally states that, in addition to four other criteria, the second nationality was an official selection criterion to determine whether there was an increased risk of fraud. That's what it says right here. The IRS admits that, and the Secretary of State told us about it here. I asked the Secretary of State if the Dutch can count on them being treated as fairly as they have any other origin. So it's definitely been important. If these four criteria were highlighted by a number of Dutch people, they were not taken out, but that fifth criterion was indeed, at least for a fifth, decisive. That's what it says. Mr. Chairman. I'm also concerned about the climate. I read the election program. Mr Wilders' election programme is full of this kind of rhetoric. He even says literally: I want to continue to violate Article 1 of the Constitution. I do want to be able to deal with people based on their origins and nationality when others who look like them have committed offences. That's the essence. He's talking in his election program about Turks and Moroccans committing massive fraud. Always dropping it off on that group. In that climate, that is what I am saying, Mr Wilders also has blood on his hands when it comes to the behaviour of those officials, who felt, at least, strengthened by the way he talks about these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u121	No, that's not... look, I'd like to talk about my election program in detail here, you know. Then I can explain very well why these are all fantastic proposals on double nationality. But we never said, and we never will, that because of the mere fact that they have a dual nationality, people are suspected of fraud or criminal. Total bullshit! The fact is that people of Turkish or Moroccan origin are overrepresented in crime statistics. That's a fact, you know. You can't blame me for that. That's a fact. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. Supplements were stopped group by group without examination. People were wrongly allocated 94% was not a frauder at all because of so-called gross debt yet the predicate of frauder, so they did not get a pay-off arrangement and therefore, as the Van Dam Committee rightly writes, they ended up in years of poverty. Innocent people who are financially and mentally destroyed. It is a disgrace that the people of the Tax Office who are responsible for this are not prosecuted by the prosecution. The pain caused by the victims, who were not fraudsters at all, cannot be described with a pen. Marriages broke down. People lost their homes. Lives were completely destroyed. When they tried to defend themselves, they didn't stand a chance, not with Mark Rutte's government and not with the administrative judge. If Mr Omtzigt asks the cabinet in 2017 if there are any parents who have suffered unnecessary damage as a result of the termination of the childcare allowance, the cabinet will reply that none of this has been found. That would not have been the answer. A shameless lie, indicative of this entire file. A black page in the history of Dutch politics that is still going on. Because the Christmas promise that the victims would immediately receive an advance of €30,000, turns out to be also a lie. No one's gotten that money yet. How much more does Prime Minister Rutte intend to humiliate these victims? For many of the victims, this amount is a slap compared to the financial stranglehold in which they ended up. Luckily, one day before this debate last night, it was decided that the victims who were not fraudsters should be cleared of their debts and that they should not lose the amount immediately to public creditors such as the tax authorities. This should also apply to private creditors. If necessary, the government will take over those debts. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so? But anyway, the money needs to get there soon. I want the Prime Minister today, during this debate, to guarantee that the victims will all be compensated this month and that if they still have to apply for compensation, I believe they will be able to do so until 15 February. I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. It's all gonna have to be different. The Chamber, the citizens and also the media will have to be better, more complete and fairerly informed by the Cabinet. The supplement system will indeed have to be discussed seriously and carefully by colleagues on this subject. I believe that last week we received some 28 variants from the cabinet, which will soon be discussed in the Finance Committee. The Court itself will, of course, also have to deal much more with the consequences and implementation of the laws. For this, the proposed execution test can help by the Cabinet, but I think that officials should also be encouraged to report abuses to our Parliament. Chambers should be able to hear officials without the Minister's permission and without us having to set up inquiry or interrogation committees so that people like Mrs Palmen can call us earlier. Get rid of that Rutte doctrine of covering up, shoving it under the carpet and keeping it a secret, but real openness and transparency. Mr. Chairman. However, in order to be credible in all these improvements, in restoring public confidence, responsibility will also have to be taken. Certainly by Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister of this country, the man who, just before Christmas, was asked whether he saw the premium affair as a stain on his premiership, replied: "A stain? Well, I have to think about that, whether I say yes or no." The man who last week for every camera he could find said he didn't have any direct responsibility for this file. "I have no direct responsibility for this dossier," said Mr Rutte, when he was Prime Minister for 10 years while he was chairman of the Ministerial Committee on Combating Fraud. The Prime Minister sat and sits fist-deep in this supplement file, but he really trivializes everything. That's how we remember him: Mark Rutte, first class power politician. The man who does everything, but everything, to save his own ass. As long as he can stay in the Tower. As long as he can stay on the VVD list. Party mates such as Weekers, Teeven, Opstelten, Van der Steur, Hennis, Zijlstra, Harbers and now Wiebes are all allowed to take their picks, as long as the big boss stays in the saddle safely. Last Tuesday, Mr Wiebes said that he did not think resigning was logical at all. On Friday he resigned to protect the position of the great VVD boss Rutte. The motto "fat, ikke, ikke and the rest can choke" is engraved in the door of the Tower. It would be a credit to the Prime Minister to renounce his party's leading list. He can decide for himself. That's not the voter's point, and that's not your party's point. You can decide for yourself, Mr. Prime Minister. That's when you take real responsibility. After this unprecedented scandal, which the Prime Minister was responsible for from the beginning to the end, it is not to explain that nothing changes, that he simply remains a list-taker and that in a moment he is simply Minister or God save us perhaps even become prime minister again and continues as if nothing had happened? You can't explain that, can you? Tens of thousands of innocent people have been humiliated, destroyed with their families. A minister and a secretary of state have resigned, but the big boss just sits there. That's impossible, isn't it? What do you think, Mr. Rutte? Do you think: I don't care about everything and everyone, as long as I don't lose my own job? Such shameless selfishness. Mr. Chairman. If the Prime Minister still has a little honor left, if he still has something of a backbone, he must draw conclusions and not come back after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u122	Thank you. Oh, Mr Segers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u123	It is clear what Mr Wilders thinks of Prime Minister Rutte. He has ruled on the rule of law. He talked about the IRS. But then he still raises the suggestion that he is contemplating from the moon and watching it all happen. Mr Wilders was there himself. How does he look back on his own role as co-legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u124	If you want self-reflection, you should go to the psychologist. I'm not from the self-reflection department. It really doesn't make any sense. Of course, we've all done things right and wrong, but the bottom line is this cabinet screwed up. This cabinet has misinformed the Chamber. This cabinet has criminalized people. This cabinet didn't give the judge enough documents. This cabinet has led from the outset to a situation in which we all did not know it. Thanks to the activities of Mr Omtzigt and the SP colleague, Mrs Leijten, we have come to the information we now have. It wasn't the cabinet's fault. The cabinet misinformed us. I just mentioned the example of the answers to Mr Omtzigt's questions. The Cabinet has constantly trained everything. Self-reflection? Get in the tree! The cabinet must be called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'm about to put my questions to the cabinet. It's up to the cabinet to answer that. I am not asking Mr Wilders if he is in a good mood. I'm not sure I'm okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u126	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u127	I'm not asking if you're comfortable, if you're okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u128	I'm really good in my skin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u129	I appreciate that, but I'm not asking for that at all. I'm asking about your voting behaviour, about your role as co-legislator. You're a co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u130	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u131	You have a year, year and a half or two years of what was it? (b) be jointly responsible for government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u133	You are jointly responsible for laws that have been passed. How do you look at that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u134	Those are laws that about half the Chamber voted for. Think of the Fraud Act and the Awir, where it started. I believe that the Labour Party, after the whole Chamber, has agreed to this, so there was no hardness clause. A large part, even GroenLinks, still voted in favour of the Fraud Act. Other laws on the surcharges were adopted almost unanimously. So we have all voted in favour of these laws, and rightly so. I don't regret that for a second. I'm in favour of a tough fraud policy. I believe that we owe it to the taxpayer that people do not commit fraud, but that is quite different from what has happened. What happened is that the cabinet put people in debt. The cabinet has put the stamp "frauder" on their foreheads, when they weren't at all. Rules were all made up, such as 80/20 regulations and you name it; I can't even repeat them all here. They didn't come out of the law, they meant people got into trouble. And the room didn't know anything. When colleagues asked about it, they were sent with a rug in the reeds. Some colleagues were even lied to in the answers to parliamentary questions. And if it had not been for Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, we would not have known by now. So don't touch me with self-reflection; there they are and it's a shame they're still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u135	Mr. Wilders may find it annoying, but I'll come up with self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u136	Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u137	I will come up with the question of how you look back at your own voting behaviour. A law has been submitted here that says: if a mistake has been made at the slightest or least, then you must recover and pay a fine for the assistance. In 2014 there was a motion from colleague Siderius of the SP who said: this is very harsh. You voted for the law and against the motion. Of course you can hand out and of course you can all ask critical questions. But if the Van Dam Committee puts down a very critical report and says "the Chamber must also look in the mirror; you must also do self-reflection," you cannot of course say: you can go into the tree. Then you should also look at your own voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u138	I don't have to do anything. I don't have to do anything, especially if Mr Segers says so. So I'm not gonna do any of that. I'm not gonna do that. I'm proud of our voting behaviour. I can justify any voting behavior, because I assumed, once again, that fraudsters were caught. And if fraudsters get caught, the law can't be strict enough. But what happened? No fraudsters have been caught; innocent people have been caught. That's what they caused with their officials, not us. They have to pay the price and not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u139	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u140	Finally. I'm going to ask the cabinet my questions. The cabinet must also answer, but I must also answer and so must Mr Wilders. Then you can say "I am so proud of my voting behaviour"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u141	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u142	... but that vote means undress those people at all when they're wrong, at least at least at the slightest. Then there's a motion that says, guys, this is gonna work out hard. The Council of State says that the human dimension is missing; you have to build in a hardness clause. And Mr Wilders keeps saying, "You can go down the tree." You can't be proud of that. It would adorn Mr Wilders not only to hand out, but also to look inside and say, "Hey, how has my voting been?', 'Cause that might be disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u143	No. I can repeat what I said once again, but we are proud of how we voted, because we thought it was about real fraudsters and they withheld the fact that they were innocent people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u144	Proud of the vote, because we didn't have all the information. But that was not the case in all cases, because of the strict anti-fraud legislation of 2013, at the time supported by the PVV, colleagues Heerma and Van Weyenberg said at some point that people are being taken very hard even in case of minor mistakes. It was then Minister Asscher who watered down that severe fraud law of SZW. And it was the PVV who, together with the VVD, voted against that law amendment. Why, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u145	Sure. I'll also explain why. That was the amendment of the social security laws relating to the regulation of the administrative fine. That was indeed a bill from Mr Asscher, which was adopted on 31 May 2016 in the Lower House. We voted against it. If you look at the Acts and the law itself, you will see that one of the reasons Mr Asscher believes that the fines should be reduced was that the financial circumstances of the client should be taken into account. In other words, fraudsters too. If people who have cheated would find themselves in such a bad financial situation that they would no longer be able to pay it, the fine would have to be reduced. That was one of the considerations. We also discussed this in plenary at the time. We do not believe that the fine for fraudsters should be reduced, ergo that real fraudsters should be taken into account in their financial circumstances. That is why we voted against that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u146	I think the whole House agrees that, of course, you must always detect fraud and combat the abuse of taxpayers' money. But both in 2016 and now in this debate, it is clear that the system is so complex that people sometimes subconsciously make mistakes, are ground up in the system and wrongly designated as fraud. And then the PVV says: yes, too bad, then you are still being beaten hard. In fact, in 2018 it was a motion by Mr Léon de Jong who said: if you have gone wrong once with assistance in the Netherlands and have been labeled a fraud, you will never be eligible for assistance again. We know, therefore, that Mr Wilders also admits that the system is complex, that people are being crushed and unjustly tackled, but Mr Wilders has no eye for that. Once a fraud, always a fraud. Never again a second chance. Never again, as fragile, help from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u147	You know, if you're a real fraud, that's true, but of course not if you're not a fraud. You're gonna get past all that. If you are a real fraud, as far as I am concerned, you cannot be treated hard enough, but if you are not a real fraud, that is of course ridiculous. And what happened? What went wrong? There were all-or-no provisions. We didn't know anything about that. You didn't know anything about that either. If you didn't pay a piece of your own contribution, you'd have to pay back the whole fee. If objections were raised, the people were not taken seriously both in the court and in the tax administration. So they weren't frauds. It was wrong to put it on the nose as I said in my contribution, the predicate 'great debt', which was also wrong. And what does Mrs Palmen say in the piece that the cabinet itself received later and what we had to wait for a year and a half when they had it in 2019? What did she say about what happened in practice when it came to stopping the surcharges? At the time, it was about 300 men. That there were incorrect legal bases. That no attention was paid to legal protection. That there was a breach of due diligence. That there was an infringement of the statement of reasons requirement. That there was an intruder on about everything. And yes, if you do that to innocent people... If we had known that, if we had known that earlier, we would have said, of course, to all of you, but also to all of us, that it would have to be adapted. But we didn't know that, and certainly not in the size of between 25,000 and 30,000 people. No one here knew that. When you say, "Look at yourself," I say, stop it. Look at the cabinet. They should have informed us. If the two colleagues from the SP and the CDA hadn't done anything, we still wouldn't have known today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u148	There is no doubt that, if we had previously received better information, we might have been able to intervene earlier. But this very long list of Mr Wilders of what has gone wrong in recent years proves one thing. In practice, it is not as simple as we sometimes talk about it here in these debates. So we, as co-legislator and controller of the cabinet, must be aware of the implementation. My question to Mr Wilders is as follows. If you know that such big mistakes can happen, how do we bring back the human measure and how do we ensure that civil servants in the execution can make sure that people are not ground up, but are helped instead of excluding the rest of their lives from assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u149	Quite simply, by being well informed by the cabinet. The cabinet shouldn't lie to the Chamber. If the cabinet says "this is going wrong, because the officials are not doing their job" and they are doing something when the legislator does not ask for it, then we have to fire those officials. If the cabinet says "this law is working wrong; boys, if you don't change the law, this leads to those and those situations," then we as a Chamber can decide to change that harsh law if we want to. But if we don't know anything, if they're kidding us, if they're lying to us, if they're wrongly informing the Chamber, then we shouldn't be looking at ourselves. Then we have to look at them to change it. The cabinet is the main responsibility and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Van Dam committee for the work she has done, which means that we are now standing here with a very hard report. For these three observations of the parliamentary interrogation committee were the hardest seen by the CDA Group in Parliament's investigations and surveys over the last 70 years. The rule of law is at stake. The government has informed the Chamber immemorially, incorrectly and incompletely, and repeatedly so. And openness, completeness and transparency were not the guiding principles towards the Chamber and the press and when compiling files for courts. This is in several cases motivated by desired political or legal outcomes. Freely translated: they haven't spoken the truth, not even in court, and they've kept documents in files to make sure the parents weren't right. A large group of parents and their children stood powerless against powerful institutions of the rule of law. Freely translated: tens of thousands of parents have been ground for years, with gruesome results for private lives. They have not had any, but no, protection of the rule of law or its institutions. Is the government taking these conclusions or abandoning them? I'd like to make a clear statement. In the current circumstances, namely a corona pandemic, the government took two legitimate decisions. She formulated a substantive response to the report and decided to resign. In these circumstances, the outgoing government, in the view of the CDA Group, can and must continue to take full account of current issues. In any case, this concerns the fight against the corona pandemic in all its facets, such as the major economic and social consequences, the Brexit, the succession of the report on unprecedented injustice, and the Groningen and the recovery operation, which will recognise a number of things in the input today. That sounds exceptional and it is. The report on unprecedented injustice calls, no, for the restoration of the rule of law, both in the childcare allowance scandal and in general. Don't wait. A few short-term measures are necessary. This file won't go away if we don't talk about it. Parents are often still in deep trouble and the problems of the rule of law are large and deep. These problems arose not only from problems with the government and the Tax Administration, but also because other institutions did not intervene, judges, the Ombudsman and the media, and not least because the Second Chamber failed both as legislator and as auditor. We recognise that and believe that a group of MPs should make proposals when the Bosman Committee's report comes out. We ourselves think that we should be more independent from governmental agreements and major climate agreements, take more time for legal proceedings and re-establish the government spending committee. But first things first today, and that's the parents and the kids. They come first and perhaps also second and third. Parents have become victims of a fraud hunt in which the tax authorities have illegally broken laws. Parents became victims of the hardness of the scheme. This meant that they had to pay back €10,000 in the event of a minor error. That was against "against"! I would like to say to Mr Dijkhoff that this is an explanation of the lawyer's position. It recommended proportionality in 2009. The Tax Administration hid behind the broad back of justice and the case law did not look into the files. What a rule of law! Tens of thousands of citizens were marked "frauder." That's what got into all the systems. They were not told that, but they experienced destructive consequences: no payment arrangements, forced sale of the home and of cars, loss of job, no vog and sometimes loss of health, of children and worse. Mr President, I am afraid to list it all. In 94% of cases, 94% of cases! We don't know why that happened anymore. What do you mean, the rule of law? And now for the compensation. We also have a compensation scheme now, but it changes every day. I'd like a timeline. And now a real timeline, I say to the government, not a fake-time path. When have we been asking for this for a year and a half? How's private debt? We were going to try to help everyone within a year a year ago. Only 2% have been helped. There's more money to the IRS to the IRS! If so, the parents and the compensation. I would also like a response to why the UNG thinks it is not feasible, to what the directors now think and, very importantly, to the fact that there is finally money for children, 200 million. Please no longer sit down on the Child Panel, but effective ways to help those children who have suffered years. In that time frame I would also like to hear what we are going to do with parents who are in debt restructuring or in the WSNP. They can't get a lot of money in one go, because someone else will take it. Private creditors sometimes circle around these people like sharks. Some of these people had a rotten Christmas because of the announcement on December 22, because they didn't know what it was about for a month, but everyone thought they had money. I'd like a concrete plan. The Prime Minister met the parents a year ago. He said, "I'll talk to you again after six months." Is that what happened? If that did not happen, would the Prime Minister want to do so in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u152	The work of Mr Omtzigt and my colleague Mr Leijten has already been mentioned here a few times, but I would also like to mention it in his term. I think their contribution has been great, great and good for democracy and indeed the reason we are here today. So thank you very much for that. But I would also like to know from Mr Omtzigt, of course, we know that he has recently spent a considerable part of his life getting the truth out of him. What exactly for him were the moments when he, looking back, could have found that all this misery could have been avoided for all those parents, at least a large part of that misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u153	The very first time was when we made a law here, in 2004. That was about the Childcare Act. Dozens of amendments have been tabled. That was a big pot, a mix of political interests here in the Chamber, where everyone threw something in the pot and eventually a law came out that didn't work. If I see one thing today, it is a lot of political hobbies in the sense of: we are going to reform childcare completely today. If we should have learned one thing, it is: take one count, be careful and make good plans. That's the first mistake. The second point on which we could have intervened was the following. I'm just expecting better information from the cabinet. This is the first dossier... Arno Visser from the Court of Auditors has written a very nice piece in Elsevier in which he states that in all the investigations we have had here over the last 40 years, the provision of information was not good, and that we intend to do better each time but never anything happens. So I expect the Cabinet to update the letter before 1 July which states what it does with all those points mentioned here. But this is the first time that the cabinet itself suffers from the imperfect information provision, because until June 2019 the cabinet itself did not know what was happening because it did not find it interesting to tell the Chamber. And if you don't find it interesting to tell the Chamber, then you're not going after it yourself. That's how they dug themselves up. That was stupid! But it continues to this day, I say to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mrs. Marijnissen. Or weren't you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u155	No, I'm just gonna grab this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u156	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u157	I wanted to show you how things were blacked out, but in this file, since what happened to Minister Van der Steur, everything has been whitened, so the effect is less. The internal documents also state that, in order to avoid that effect of Mr Omtzigt, they are now also doing it in white. But you thought they'd do better. You thought they'd do better. Last night we received answers to parliamentary questions submitted on 23 December. I will spare you, but answer 9 is: see answer 8. Answer 10: see answer question 8. Answer 11: see answer question 8. Answer 12: see answer question 8. That goes on until answer 24. Identical answers. It simply says: we do not think it makes sense to give this answer. This is the new Ruttedoctrine. The new Ruttedoctrine. "We've had it; we've distanced ourselves from it and we've re-entered it." So my question to the Prime Minister is: does he distance himself from this Ruttedoctrine and will I get a full answer to this in two days' time, or have we gone mad? So because of that incomplete information, it also went wrong. I also have to say quite frankly, as you know, that I have been doing research in Malta. I ran into a state that didn't function. For a long time I thought it impossible to make a comparison between Malta and the Netherlands, but with us something else is not working: power and counterpower. There's such a close connection here between the Cabinet and the House of Representatives that, if you have a difficult question, you're the problem in the Cabinet. There is such an intimate connection between the cabinet and the press that questions have been asked to the cabinet by courageous journalists such as Jan Kleinnijenhuis and Pieter Klein, but that those 20,000, 30,000 parents I say something; 100,000, because they were all families never in sight in our country. There's something fundamental wrong in our country, something fundamental in the checks-and-balances. And it goes on. Justice doesn't protect. The interest groups all eat from the state grape. All of them! We call them interest groups. But you know what happens? They sometimes say something, but you never hear them say it loud: and now it's over! And why? Because that's when the grant stops. I can give you the examples of this. We have set up the State in such a way that our cabal in The Hague I say "our" but although I am one of the longest-sitting MPs, I do my best to stay out there and look more at the party chairman than at the electorate. We're gonna have to change that. There is a broader agenda than just saying: there was one tax officer. If only it was one tax officer I could find. If only it were one minister. That's exactly why I've been saying for four years: I don't care. Why do I say that? Because it's not one person. We have created a structure and a system in which everything is central, but not the hardworking Dutch citizen. It's only central to the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u158	That is a clear answer from Mr Omtzigt. I have no further questions about that. I listen with a great deal of curiosity to the answers of the cabinet to this. It is precisely in order to prevent this being the first election debate in the election campaign referred to by Mr Omtzigt that we would be okay if we could actually get something done for the parents today. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned this. Because that's the biggest scandal of all this. All things have been mentioned, but to this day, even when we stand here, these people are still in uncertainty and misery. I want to talk more specifically about the children, because if there is one group that really can't do anything about this, then those parents couldn't do anything about it either. Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned that 200 million will finally come for these children. We are very pleased with that, but at the same time we are also very concerned that the 200 million will not go to the children who need it, but to consultants you mentioned earlier, or to others who will get along with it. How does Mr Omtzig look forward to making a joint proposal today to set up a child fund, at least ensuring that the 200 million will end up with those children so that they can start a clean slate in the future? We cannot put it right anymore that their youth has been taken from them and that they have had to grow up in misery and bitter poverty. That is very sad, but we can ensure that they can at least have a clean slate in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u159	The SP has made that proposal before. I think that's a good idea. Mrs Leijten has also made a more frequent proposal, namely to give up a little more of the tax authorities, who have made the mistakes themselves. A little more distance would help to pay this off in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u161	That partnership was good. But the strange thing is that we should be praised for that, which should not be exceptional. Because the Constitution does not say at all that I am a member of a political group. In that I have only one responsibility, and that is to control the government. I don't have the responsibility of always supporting the government or always doing something. Perhaps we should read the Constitution a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u162	It is good that Mr Omtzigt makes that clear, but that is not always recognised in this Chamber. There's quite a difference between coalition and opposition. But it is a good thing that Mr Omtzigt says very clearly that in December the parents got into trouble with statements. We saw yesterday in a reaction that the debts to the Tax Administration, to the government, are being forgiven. But a lot of people are already in a lot of trouble, because they've already paid off a lot. They paid for it because their house was put up for sale and the like. My question is: how are we going to solve this problem? If Mr Omtzigt had the opportunity to come up with an arrangement of his own, how would he shape it so that all these parents would be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u163	I think that's wise. Fortunately, we see the parents with the biggest problems. There are also a lot of parents who could live in their homes with great pain and great difficulty and have paid it off. They are particularly well helped by this scheme, because with this one-off amount they are out of trouble. But extra attention will have to be paid to the parents who are in debt restructuring, because the moment you transfer money to them, that money doesn't go to the parents. I would like to ask the government to ensure that everyone has access to the Committee on Real Damage and that within a few months we get a clear directive on how the real damage is compensated and how the loss of your job and your home is dealt with, as Mrs Van Brenn rightly said. It should also be clear how it is handled if you lost that house four years ago, while house prices have gone through the roof. Or how to deal with the loss of health. It is important that we take that up quickly now. Although I agree with Mr Wilders' remark that the 30 000 will have to be paid out fairly quickly, I do not wish to give rise to the expectation that within two months we will all have paid out the real damage. That's gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u164	I continue to struggle to find what we can expect from this cabinet in the short term, because they call on banks, insurers and so on. But those are private institutions. Indeed, we can see that justice or collection agencies are all splashed up to get as much as possible. To what extent does the CDA think that banks and insurance companies can also be properly called upon to discharge some of the burden there? Then they're gonna tell stories to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u165	I understand what Mrs Van Brenk is saying, but I have the following problem here: a lot of these parents not only have a debt at the Wehkamp or at the bank, but also have a debt to their own family. If you say to those family members "you helped me out of trouble; you loaned me $10,000, but now because of the government I have to tell you that you'll only get half of it back," I don't know how fair that is. In other words, I know we shouldn't. It is quite difficult to say to the local entrepreneur, who has just provided services, that you must now take a turn on this. What I do suspect is that perhaps the Secretary of State for SZW, who is still here today, can say something about the fact that the government itself is now finding out how expensive it is to have debts in this country. Expensive. When you see how fast the collection costs are incurred and how, if you're in trouble for once, you're gonna get out of that spiral even more. Now that the government itself has to show up, it might be more likely to take action, allowing people who once get into these problems to come out again. On the exit: I hope there will be good negotiations, but I know how difficult it is to force private creditors to do something. So let me leave that to the wisdom of the Secretary of State for Finance, Fees and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u166	I very much appreciate Mr Omtzig's commitment with Mrs Leijten, and I also forgot to mention Mr Azarkan. I think that Mr Omtzig has already done very important work on behalf of all of us with these two Members of Parliament. So nothing but compliments for that. I fully share his analysis, but do I have a question: does Mr Omtzig do this here entirely on behalf of the CDA Group? 'Cause that would be super good news, of course. My question is therefore: is this justified ferocity about the way in which the cabinet deals with the position of the Chamber and the fact that it does not inform the House, is this criticism, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, of all the dossiers? Does the rule of law apply to all cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u167	I stand here on behalf of the entire CDA group. And yes, the rule of law is central to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u168	Great, that's good news. Thank you very much for that. I have another question on the answer to the questions put by Mr Omtzigt. I've read them, too. The answer to question 8 is "we don't think it's necessary to give a timeline" when the Chamber asks for it. It is not up to the cabinet to say: we do not think it is necessary. And then the answer to questions 9 to 25: "See the answer to question 8." I don't know what happened behind the scenes. Mr Omtzigt rightly says: that Ruttedoctrine must be removed. But would it really be the case that the Ministry of Finance, for which Mr Hoekstra is ultimately responsible, intended to answer that question, and that because of the Ruttedoctrine that did not happen? Or should the Ministry of Finance simply have given an independent answer to the questions and said: with Friday's letter we are not going to do Ruttedoctrine anymore; we are going to inform the Chamber properly from now on. It is not entirely clear to me who is behind the fact that these questions have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u169	I have in the pieces... I have to say, I've been working through the night, because that's the package. I did print it double-sided in contrast to a number of other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u170	Little detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u171	I've really tried my best to see what's in there. I have seen in the papers of the POK that at some point the Treasury officials say that it is AZ's policy not to send the CAF documents to the Chamber. That's very ugly. I asked you at that time, I can assure you that this was not appreciated by the entire coalition, or that the person in question remembered that he or she had taken the oath or vow to the Constitution. It is simply made individually. Article 68 is simply part of the Constitution. Article 68 of the Constitution states that a single Member of Parliament is entitled to information, and that includes documents. So call AZ? They should stop calling AZ. Knock it off! I want to hear from the Prime Minister that he's going to refuse calls when someone calls AZ to ask if he can provide information. That is the personal individual responsibility of a ruler. So I'm very curious about what happened at the Ministry. I like to hear it. I forgot to mention that in reply 6 and 7 the government admitted that the previous timeline, which was not requested by me, but by a parliamentary motion, was not correct. It has been admitted that the crucial memo-Palms had been omitted from it. So there was a very good reason why I wanted to know exactly why that happened. I'm assuming we'll hear that in a few days. And yes, this was a bit of a false start in complying with the new rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u172	Sure. That shows that on Friday you will receive a letter with the promise that everything will be changed and on Monday evening you will receive answers that still come from exactly the same era. My question is as follows. I agree that the Ruttedoctrine should be removed, but if the Cabinet sends such a letter on Friday, you can expect all directors in their own departments, for which they are ultimately responsible, to say: boys, the Chamber will be well informed from now on. If, then, from the Ministry of Finance, where I must say that Mr CDA-minister Hoekstra is ultimately responsible, there are still answers of this kind, then I think there are more culprits in this business than just Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u173	I didn't expect anything different today, and I'm disappointed. I'll tell you exactly why. Today I am trying to indicate that Renske Leijten and I are trying to fulfil our role as MP. As a Member of Parliament, I am not employed by Hoekstra, nor by Minister Hoekstra. I'm checking Secretary Hoekstra. If you see my parliamentary questions from last week and that week before to Minister Hoekstra about the mess at ING or the problems at Sanderink, then you will really suspect no intention, I can assure you. That's how I check him every day. That's how I control other CDA executives. I asked four parliamentary questions in the February recess of a year ago, among others to Minister De Jonge, about the still quite unknown corona virus, because I was concerned about it. That gave me a nice article from a colleague from one of the coalition groups who thought I should stay out of it. So your suggestion that... I'm not color blind, but in this case I am. I don't care what color is in the cabinet; I really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u174	This is a misunderstanding. I had absolutely no intention of rubbing that suggestion on Mr Omtzigt, because I think we have all been able to see that, regardless of the coalition pressure, he fulfils his role as a Member of Parliament, on behalf of all of us. It was an addition to his question how could he not have received an answer again and to his justified observation that the Ruttedoctrine should be removed. My addition was: I am also curious to see how that went in the Ministry of Finance. But I do not think in any way that Mr Omtzigt is going to let the truth find out for a moment what it is because it happens to be his own minister. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u175	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. On the last point, I have forgotten one thing, namely that I find it rather shameful that the municipalities did not get the data because of the GDPR. First, you name people as frauds and share them with the whole country and with every housing corporation. They didn't get a vog or anything. That was against all principles. But if you have to solve it, the GDPR is a sta-in-the-way to get the municipalities to solve it. Thus, the GDPR has changed from a law that protects the citizen, into a law that protects the government. And that was never meant to happen. So I would like that data from all those affected, and not just from those who have reported, to be shared with the municipalities in the very short term. Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about information here. Point one. For a year, it's been stopped that we got the CAF reports here. Did I know if it was just CAF 11 or 170 CAF cases? I couldn't find out because there was a policy line somewhere that said: we don't give CAF evaluations; I'm not interested in emails from MPs; I'm interested in official evaluations. They're blocked. After that, Mrs Palmen's memo was blocked. Then we got Mrs Palmen's memo, but in it all the crucial conclusions were white. With Mrs Palmen, Mrs Leijten had to be some kind of reading teacher to tell us what it said. Shocking that that's necessary. So again, can I please have the answers to my parliamentary questions? And if not, what's Friday's letter worth? By the way, I'm going to go over a few other things from that letter. It's a good thing there's a government commissioner for an information business, but what's her job description or his job description? Can this person also make compelling recommendations on which information is recorded and kept? Because the problem with the Tower is that there is no memory there. Yeah, if you don't have any minutes, you don't have to keep anything. We would therefore like to see a mandate with the task of saying what needs to be kept. Then there is Article 68 of the Constitution. That's where the government says: if we're going to refuse something now, we're going to ask for an internal legal advice first. I would have preferred an external advice, but I think it's progress. Of course, this will only work if we see this legal advice. So if a piece is refused, do we get to see if the Ministry's legal department also thinks that this can be refused? I missed the good policy of the government from 2002, Minister De Vries. He wrote a fine piece on how to inform the Chamber. If the government just says "that's our new policy line," we'll be done in one go. I'd love that. Then withholding the documents in court. Mr Wilders has already mentioned it. Last night, late, you see my little eyes, we got three pieces of internal policy instructions, which go until 2019, which just says: keep the pieces behind. I'll get the pieces. There are many of them; I have staff who help me sort things out, otherwise it would have been a tragedy, Mr President. It just says here: monitoring notifications are not added to the file before the court. Furthermore, if the word "research" is in the piece, it does not go to the court, nor does it go to documents relating to fraud. So someone was in court for fraud, but the government gave an incomplete file. My question is: has this been rectified retroactively? Because in 2008, the state's attorney says, "You can't do that." So there are people in this country who have lost court cases because the government didn't want to give information. That's a banana monarchy. That's why I'm asking you, has this been corrected by these parents? And if not, can you inform them if you have submitted an incomplete file to them? The crazy thing is that these instructions were in force for another year after the Land Attorney's advice. So in 2008 the lawyer says to us "stop," but we don't do it. Mr. Chairman. Then a few reflections for the Prime Minister. Can he reflect on a few questions? Where did the government act illegally? That is important to know, because you pay more than 1 billion in damages, so there must have been some unlawful action. And towards who? I'd like a full list. And can he reflect on his own role and the role of the Ministry of General Affairs in this? When is he responsible for something and when has he made decisions that are for this? And what does he know about discrimination and ethnic profiling? Mr. Chairman. These problems can also arise elsewhere. Are there similar problems with laws that work out very hard for people? That could be at the UWV; we've already heard "the Participation Act." In the youth care sector, I can just imagine something about that. Sometimes things happen to the IND that really can't. Could we have a list of these before 1 July? Can citizens also provide their input? Think also of other cases where fraudsters can become victims, such as this weekend's pgb fraud, which will charge vulnerable clients. Then there's one little thing. There were 30,000 people who got the stamp "frauder," but the Van Dam Committee found some 60,000 between 2005 and 2012. Do these people still have to pay back? Or is there another big group? Mr. Chairman. The government has many good intentions for itself. That's a good thing. But if it doesn't work, there will be no additional legal protection for the citizen. The current package of measures trusts that the government will improve itself. It could work, but it could fail. Hence my proposal: prepare an additional package, in case the citizens are in danger of being crushed again. Reform the administrative law, on which we heard the highest judge say that this assumes that the government is right. Take off the marginal key and take a real key. Administrative law is not suitable for surcharges. They must be subject to tax law. Many cases have come under administrative law, where there should have been better legal protection of citizens. Can we see a reform of that? Come up with a wide and new whistleblower scheme. Someone's been fired from this file; that's right. That was the whistleblower. That's very handsome. He was the first one to get fired here. Can this man still get a ribbon instead of his resignation letter? So can we really have a better whistleblower scheme, a scheme that looks like something, which is state-wide and also applies to people on temporary contracts? When can we meet the tax ombudsman? It works well in other countries, because it has an overview of where it goes wrong. If 1,000 parents had complained to a tax ombudsman that this went wrong, I'm sure there would have been a more powerful signal. My question to the government is whether these proposals for formation can be ready. But more is needed to restore the broken trust. This debate may be too short and too political. I'll make some proposals for a new social contract soon. I think I'm obligated to do that after everything I've said. But strange eyes, Mr Dijkhoff, have been able to force a point. That is why, in my second term, I will propose that the Venice Commission should deliver an opinion on legal protection, in particular administrative law, in the Netherlands. Does the system of power and opposition function in the Netherlands? Does the Dutch rule of law work? In this case, the State and the institutions have failed horribly. In this case, I would also like to have a brief explanation in the second term: does the government consider it desirable to set up a state committee, not only as it does now, on democracy, but also on the rule of law itself? I didn't think I would ever suggest it a few years ago, but I would like to have a reflection from the government on this: does it also see the need for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Azarkan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u178	Yes, I have a question for colleague Omtzigt. I know that we, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Leijten and I, got him about a year and a half ago asked for a note on the prosecution of criminal offences. Mr Omtzigt referred to this in the last general discussion, also with emotion, because he felt it was wrong that a number of parties wanted to whistle us back with an informed procedural meeting. And it was spicy. I didn't hear about that. How does he look at that note? Is he gonna get involved? After all, since Mr Omtzigt speaks, I see a somewhat bitter-looking Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra. They have the idea that they've been caught a little bit, that the game being played is actually coming out a little bit. I'm just looking at how important is this note on this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u179	In my twelve minutes, I haven't been able to do everything. I have seen that Mr Azarkan, with whom I have indeed worked well on parts of the dossier, would have liked to speak for 45 minutes on this issue. I get that, because there's more to tell. I've seen some lawyers report it. We're gonna see what happens with that. That's how the rule of law works. Because even though this time I am critical of the administrative judge, which is by way of exception, I am not going to interfere in that process at the moment. I wonder if the government has seen any further grounds for criminal offences, especially in view of the fact that documents have also been destroyed, but I have seen that the prosecution has made a decision. However, I chose not to do everything in the department "it's annoying what happened to me." I can take it all. I'm fine with it all. The louder you yell at me through a phone, the more questions you get. The harder you say to me, the harder I go on. I'm fine with it all. I'll do it. And I'm gonna keep doing it for years. I don't care if I'm in the opposition, the coalition or wherever. I stand for the rule of law. That's all I stand for. Are we gonna do anything with this? That is a question for the cabinet as to whether they have found new things in the Tax Office. It's at the moment, I believe, at the Supreme Court's pg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u180	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u181	I am also asking for this because that analysis clearly states that it is simply criminal if directors take decisions, give orders or maintain existing decisions or orders knowing that they violate the Constitution, other laws or general administrative measures. In 2017, it was Mr Omtzigt who knows it like no other; we are also at the beginning of building together that those laws were broken. That was also clear in the CAF 11 case. To our bewilderment, it just kept on going. Despite all the questions we asked, it just kept going. We couldn't imagine why that happened. Why are four laws being broken? Now it's in Article 68 of the Constitution. I believe that Mr Omtzigt is saying quite clearly here: I have just got wrong parts, wrong information. I would be surprised if he could work with this Prime Minister in another cabinet. But there is also the violation of Article 68 of the Constitution, plus those other articles. And that's just a crime, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u182	If Mr Azarkan finds it criminal, he can report it himself as a Member of Parliament. I see a cabinet taking political responsibility. As far as criminal law is concerned, there should also be intention and full knowledge, so not that it happened when you didn't know it. I said at the beginning of my speech: the stupid thing about this government's information policy was that it not only led to an incompletely informed Chamber, but also that the cabinet itself did not know what was going on until very late. For criminal law, that's a difference. It makes no difference to political responsibility, because it requires a minister to know what is going on. If Mr Azarkan invites me to do something: I will not do it. But it's up to every MP himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u183	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u184	Yeah, finally. That intention is important, but I make out of Mr Omtzigt's story that... Let me put it this way: does he think that this cabinet intended to do the right thing and accidentally gave the wrong information? Or was there a strategy for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u185	In any case, it would start with the intention to throw 30,000 families between the wheels. I'm sure this was no one's intention here. If it weren't for me, we would have had a different debate a long time ago. But it was the horrific consequence of how we set up the laws here, how we implemented them and how the fraud hunt was derailed here. The FSV application contains 150,000 names. I am still asking the government when these people will be informed one by one that their stuff is stored illegally, because that is what privacy legislation requires. So I ask that question again. All of that has to happen. But I'm not from the department that I'm going to use criminal law for the Constitution. In our election programme, you will see that we believe that a constitutional court should be set up. I would like to bring Rule 68 under that constitutional court. That's what I'm saying. It's no coincidence that this is in the program. That has a correlation with the fact that I was on the programme committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u186	That note is not a Chamberpiece, but is from 2019, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u187	That's a piece where you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u188	I'm not gonna say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u189	Perhaps it would be a good idea to add that to the Acts of this debate, because it is good for history to know what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u190	Yeah, but that piece's just public and all the MPs got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u191	And everyone else, too, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u192	Yes. Thank you. There is a need for a very short suspension of two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u193	Let's move on to the debate. We have arrived at Mr Jetten's contribution on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "If something doesn't go well, where am I going to ask for help? Because they come at you at once with full force instead of helping you. That sour taste never disappears. I'm exhausted and I don't trust anyone anymore. I don't think that's ever gonna work out. Trust in the government is gone, completely gone." Mr. Chairman. I got these words from a duped mother working on me. Feelings of fear, despair and powerlessness must have been daily, for her and for many others. This group of parents has been greatly wronged. There have been gross mistakes and violations. It is therefore right that the cabinet should have apologized and taken political responsibility for this. This does not mean, for this outgoing cabinet, that we can run away from the fight against the corona virus. On the contrary, that requires all the attention and effort. D66 also feels a great responsibility for this. But corona crisis or not, there was no other conclusion possible after the Van Dam Committee's report. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament who have contributed to that report. But with the resignation of the cabinet, the affected parents were not helped. Nothing has yet been done to prevent this misery in the future. That requires a break, a break with the policies and culture that have become the norm over the last ten years. For in this dossier, all state powers have failed: legislation, implementation and administrative justice. Parents are therefore oppressed, paralyzed and eventually destroyed. The relationship between the government and its inhabitants has been severely damaged, the system cracked. That has to be repaired. That starts with a quick compensation from duped parents. All debts with the Tax Administration/Applications and other governments are cancelled. That is an important step. What does the Secretary of State stand in the way of paying that compensation as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. A break with the past is also the start of a new beginning, with new leadership and a new direction. This requires reflective capacity on its own functioning, of the Chamber and of the judiciary, but also of the cabinet. I would therefore like to focus today on five points which have led to this scandal: the complexity of the surcharge system, the fight against fraud, institutional discrimination and racism, a culture of concealment, and the elimination of the rule of law. First of all, the supplement system. Even before the committee's report was published, it was clear to my group: this cannot be done any longer. The system is so complex and the excesses are so serious that people lose themselves in black holes if they accidentally make a mistake. And these are not unintended business accidents, but deliberately created accidents, of a system built on the pillars of distrust, control and progress. In order to prevent such inhuman treatment in the future, D66 has presented a plan to replace the system of surcharges, with a discount on your taxes and childcare as a free provision for everyone. Imagine that: no forms and no advances, and therefore no repayments and debts that could result from them. With that simpler system, we can start now. I am pleased that, after we have presented that plan for the summer and have it passed through, not only D66 but also GroenLinks, the Labour Party, the Christian Union, 50PLUS, all kinds of parties are talking to each other to look at: how can we proceed to put this complex supplement system overboard as quickly as possible? But to avoid mistakes, we have to learn from the past. Which brings me to the fight against fraud. The deliberate abuse of taxpayers' money must of course be tackled, but under the rule of the Rutte I and Rutte II Cabinets, this approach has gone through. Does the Prime Minister agree with that conclusion? And, if so, how could he have used his influence in recent years to prevent or reverse this? It has already been said a few times today, but in the end Bulgarian fraud was the way to a symphony that consisted of three elements: an administrative urge for efficiency, a culture of ease and oversimplification of social-technical issues, and an ideological form of anti-fraud that crescendo went hard, harder, hardest. And that symphony, louder, louder, louder, could count on applause in this Chamber. The Anti-Fraud and Taxation Act was widely supported. A law which states that service has gone too far. The VVD played the first violin, but many other parties, including D66, played in that orchestra. We should have done that differently afterwards. My group, too, has held on to the fight against fraud for too long. So yes, my group is also blamed. And then I say on behalf of all the members of D66: I'm sorry. But it is also thanks to the supervisory role of the Chamber, and some Members in particular, that we can talk about these abuses today. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister in his reply to show more of that reflection on his responsibility. Because I heard him speak too little about it at the press conference on Friday, but also at the beginning of this debate in his statement. I think that's too skinny. He was President of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of institutional discrimination and racism. The fraud approach was based on a discriminatory indicator in the ICT system. Inhuman. On top of that, tax authorities have committed discrimination. What has the Minister of Finance done with these signals to address culture within his department and his services? Institutional racism occurs in almost all public services and I think in every major organization. Often these are individuals who subconsciously or consciously express themselves racistly. Often those patterns are worn in. Mr. Chairman. If I go back in time and consider how we can see and tolerate racist patterns in public services, then I come to Secretary of State Rutte. He's had thousands of people of Somali origin tracked down and checked for fraud. If they were on welfare, they'd be under extra investigation. According to the court, he has thus induced racial discrimination. At the time, Secretary of State Rutte thought that was a strange statement. In response, he said he wanted to amend the law so that targeted population groups could be investigated. I have just said it in an interrupting debate. Apart from the laws we make in this house, we must be aware of our attitude and of the words we explain laws. This has an impact on society and on the enforcement of the law. "Fuck off." "Fight in." "Dumping back" by Antilleans. What signal does the Prime Minister think he has given with such statements in recent years? What lessons does he draw from this, even with this report in his hand? Then I come to that other problematic culture. Colleagues before me talked about it as well. The culture of secrecy: the so-called Ruttedoctrine. Members of parliament, journalists, parents and also the committee have found that the provision of information is a chaos. Information came late, partly or not through the official clay layer. The result is that people could not prove their injustice. It was difficult for the Chamber to carry out its controlling task and the misery of thousands of people lasted unnecessarily long. The cabinet is now saying goodbye to that policy. Shouldn't the Cabinet have done that much sooner? The committee's report also denies administrative law. There could have been a change of course. But would the cabinet and we as chambers have accepted that? After all, the trend of recent years is also the view that the judge should not sit on the seat of politics and the government. The rule of law is constantly being bashed by many parties, and now the case law is being accused of doing more. The reality is also, if we make bad laws or if those laws work out disproportionately badly, that we should allow implementing agencies and administrative judges to leave the law out of application and provide customization, with human measure. I'd like a response from the cabinet. I am considering a motion with Mr Marijnissen on that point. I would like to focus on legal protection. Under Rutte I and Rutte II, the amount to be paid for access to justice was increased. There was a cut in social attorneyship. There are consequences. Access to justice and justice are crucial especially for the weakest in society. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The balance has been drawn up, a balance after years of hunting for innocent people. And let this report and this debate be a turning point, a turning point to deal with squabbling and mistrust. Let us rely on trust, leave room for reality in implementation. Let's start with that now. A new beginning, Mr. Chairman. New confidence and, of course, first and foremost a solution for all parents involved in this affair as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u195	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u196	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Van Dam committee for the report they have written and the interviews they have done, the investigation. It's a hell of a report. The conclusions are so sharp; you don't often read them in investigations of the House of Representatives. The consequences are great: the cabinet has rightly offered its resignation. Today it's about the parents and the unprecedented drama that has been done to them. More than 20,000 families have been destroyed. Pretending that is a mistake in the execution and that something went wrong, I find too easy. These people have been deliberately put in trouble by the fact that I shall speak about this later, and a system of mistrust has been built up. But also the existing legislation that these people had to protect was there and that was very strict.... has simply not been complied with. And that's problematic. With this, the rule of law was not there to protect citizens from the government, but to protect the government from citizens. That is not why the rule of law was invented, but it did not come by itself. It was a tough report and resignation was the only right choice. As far as I am concerned, it should have been in the Lower House, but the Cabinet did so. It's written a reaction. But I would like to be the first to discuss the role of the Prime Minister. I myself insisted on the resignation of the cabinet and on how important that is. That is also an admission of guilt. I spoke to one of the parents this morning and he said: "Make mistakes can be done, because I do not believe that you are saints there in The Hague. Everyone makes mistakes, but please admit them and fix them quickly." If there is one thing that has not happened in this case, it is that there has been transparency about the mistakes that have been made. The questions of colleagues, asked here and with Omtzigt and Renske Leijten first, did not come up with the answers. If the Prime Minister is asked about his responsibility and he says 'I am responsible but not involved', then I see the old school Rutte standing there. Two sentences before that he says: it has to be different; we're all going to do it differently; we're going to communicate more transparently. And then he comes up with a sentence that only he can think of: I was responsible, but not involved. Resign is not symbolic. It's a confession of guilt. It is also important for parents and everyone affected to see that politicians have really understood that something has gone wrong. We got a timeline, the Prime Minister's file, with one, two, three, four, five pages with moments when this Prime Minister was involved in the file. It states at which meetings he has chaired and what contacts there have been between his ministry and the other ministries, those of Finance and Social Affairs. He was indeed involved, and it would please him if he corrected last Friday's mistake and did not dive away from responsibility, but said: "I was there. It was my responsibility" It was my department that said: we are not going to give all the data to the House of Representatives." Once again, I will deal with the role of the House of Representatives and also with the role of my party, but it is not the case that the problems in these matters have not been asked for in this Chamber. It's not like the House of Representatives here hasn't informed us what's wrong. Information has been withheld to this day. That's gotta stop. Mr. Chairman. It's gone wrong in the execution. It has gone wrong in the provision of information to the Lower House. But it is also an ideology, an ideology that we should ultimately distrust citizens, an ideology that every euro we spend on the welfare state and social security is one too many. And yes, there is also the rule of law. It's been said before. Social attorneys have been cut short. Access to justice is difficult. Social security controls have become increasingly strong. If you use a supplement or are in welfare, then you will be in harm's way and then you need to be checked extra. The cynical thing is that that extra control definitely came in when you had a different last name than Jansen. It's an ideology. I believe that today's admission of guilt should also lead to recognition of what this Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, has done over the past ten years. A system has been built based on distrust. When I look at the government, I see two governments: a government for the happy few and a government for the rest of the Netherlands. 'Cause if you have a lot of money, you're a black saver and you put the money in Switzerland into an account, then there's gonna be a payback and you're not gonna get a fine. Then you are kindly requested to return your money to the Netherlands. If we find out that directors-major shareholders do not have 200 billion hidden assets, then 200 billion! But twice as much, then I see that there is no hunting down the tax structures to go after that money. But that's what happens when you make a mistake with the child care allowance. That's what happens to people in welfare. Mr. Chairman. Two governments have been created. That's gotta stop. People need to be treated and approached with confidence. A discriminatory government certainly can't. It is quite cynical that Mr Wilders here simply denies that nationality has been looked at. It's really cynical to say that we should just look at groups that are overrepresented in the databases. Mr Dijkhoff has already said it madly, with a crazy example of Brabanders celebrating carnival and having the administration in order. I'm afraid I'm falling into a risk category. But one could also say: which groups have been the most affected by justice in this House? Perhaps then we should bring those parties to the risk profiles even more clearly, because, yes, there must be something wrong there. It shows what's wrong. Yes, the reflection that we need to show each other today is important, but let us ensure that it does not turn into: then we should not act or take any steps. If we know what's wrong, we have to act right now. We know it's wrong if you have self-learning algorithms that aren't monitored, which is not registered, which we have no idea exactly what the parameters are. Then you're gonna have to stop doing that until we figure out what you can do with it. Stop them, because institutional racism continues and these algorithms play a crucial role in this. I don't see that in the cabinet response. I'm just seeing back there everything that's already been proposed, what we're about to do. Stop using these kinds of algorithms, at least, I want to say, until we get a better look at what they're doing. Stop this when it comes to social security, because institutional racism is like a poison. That can't be in our government. And yes, the House of Representatives also made mistakes. We're all responsible for an impossible surcharge system. There have been laws going through this with broad Chamberities, which my group has also voted for. What was nice about the research that has been done... that is in line with what Mr Omtzigt said. If I look at how my group voted and at what times we have gone the right way, and sometimes incredibly stupid things have been done, then there is also a connection to coalitions. In 2012 this has nothing to do with this dossier now, but it has everything to do with the approach in social security, and we voted in favour of the fraud law. I read back my input and looked into my own notes to see how it actually went and what happened. When you read my input, there's only one conclusion: you vote against it. When Mr Karabulut asked me to do so, I said: no, we are voting in favour. The simple reason was that we had an agreement in the spring agreement. It's like coalition agreements stop thinking. Anyone who's ever made an appointment, in any agreement, knows that's hard. That takes courage, especially now that we are going to elections and a new coalition agreement. How are we gonna build that up later? Are we gonna tap it all the way down? Are we closing it so far that there is no room left in the Chamber's controlling task to make sure we get the errors out of the execution? It would be my plea to ensure that we make a coalition agreement that we do not close to the centimetres, but that we leave room to see how it can best work in the execution. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to our own actions, much more needs to be done. I know that our colleagues in the SP will put forward a proposal for a parliamentary survey. I think that's good. We will therefore support this proposal. It is good to look further at the role of the Chamber itself and at the manner in which we have operated in this case, but also in all the other cases. But I insist that this matter could have been concluded so much earlier if there were simply answers to the questions of the House that have been constantly asked here. I have really read with surprise the answers to Mr Omtzigt's questions. Each time a reply is referred back to answer 8. You can dismiss it as "it's details" as it happens in the answer.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can only draw one conclusion. When I read the cabinet response and when I see the Prime Minister's press conference on Friday, I conclude that Mark Rutte did not understand the essence of what went wrong in this surcharge scandal. It is about a system of distrust that has been built up and about giving better information to the House of Representatives. I would like the Prime Minister to address both issues in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u198	Thank you, Mr President. I've been thinking a lot about where to start with such a big debate. I think it's a good idea to start with the most important thing: the parents. Yesterday we had some affected parents together. That was, of course, digital, as it should be at this time. I wanted to know how they are now. I also wanted to know how they look at the cabinet that has resigned and what they would expect from a debate like today. That didn't seem optimistic. It hurts a lot. When you hear the stories of all those parents over and over again, you can see how they live in hell, to this day. All these people have been taken away from tens of thousands of euros. They've often lost their jobs and their homes. Sometimes even children are placed out of the house. Think also of relationships that have gone on the rocks. Actually, they've lost everything that's important in life. Whatever they've lost is trust. You can see that in those conversations. I am referring to trust in the government, in justice and in us, in politics, but certainly also in confidence in the future. I might think that's the worst part. Maybe I'll charge this cabinet most of all. It's often said, "Hope brings life." But if you take hope away from people... that's what happened to these people. Because why would you hope or expect that tomorrow will be better than today if you are thrown into misery every time, you get beautiful promises every time, while it turns out to be different, and every time a letter falls on the mat that makes the panic strike? Why would you still have that hope? That hope was taken from those people, and that's the worst thing you can do. I also asked them how things are now. Of course, it was about the €30,000 promised by this cabinet to all affected parents around Christmas. But what you hear is not only that those people haven't seen a penny of that yet, but the parents haven't heard anything about it yet, but also that it's leading to even more misery. It leads people to be congratulated, for example by their neighbor, who says: "Congratulations! I heard you're getting your money back, $30,000." People don't have anything yet. People still have the same big concerns as they had in the past year. It means that two children who have to focus on their studies are fully engaged in work, work, work. They both have two jobs, they're 16 and 19 years old, because they're thinking, "Well, maybe there's a moment when we're out of money at home, so I have to work." One of the parents said it's my kid's birthday this week. Of course, there had never been money for a gift, let alone a birthday party. Of course, it didn't work all these years. Now there would be room for a gift for the first time. But the son had said, no, I don't need it; please, don't, because I don't need a present. All too afraid that the money she is now promised will be taken away again. Of course, that's not so weird either, because day after the €30,000 was promised, the Tax Administration already came, who was the first to raise his finger. He said, "Well, come here with that money; that goes to us." Mr. Chairman. Another blow to the face of those parents. That's what I really want to ask the Cabinet today: how is this going? How does a cabinet like this get into his head to bring something like that $30,000 out in a nice press moment?I think it was for the Catshuis, but correct me if it was otherwise, while there's no idea or plan yet, it hasn't been arranged and the parents haven't been informed yet? Then you don't have any decency, do you? When you come up with something like that, after all these years of misery, you make sure everything's settled to the decimal place, right? Then you make sure that you can give this to these people, that it's true, that they don't have to be afraid again that it's being taken away or that it turns out to be an empty promise? But the cabinet doesn't even have that kind of decency. That brings me to the fact that it seems that this is much more about imaging. Of course, it took a nice story around Christmas. Everyone would get $30,000! People still don't know anything. But it is a symbol of the whole approach of the cabinet. The imaging above all else. And maybe even: the imagery at the expense of everything. That is what we have seen here: the image was at the expense of the truth, at the expense of honest information for the Chamber and the House, at the expense of those parents. Mr. Chairman. I said it at the beginning of this debate. Last night, another bucket of new information came our way. We are certainly going to study them even more extensively than we have done. As far as we are concerned, this debate is not at all the final stage, it is only the beginning. So much remains to be done, and we must, of course, correct the suffering that has been done to these parents, in addition to simply giving back the money that has been taken away from them. That is often called 'compensation' here, and that is of course a very good word, but it is actually their own money that has been taken away from what those people need to get back. We'll have to take care of that first. Mr. Chairman. For today, I also have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. A first and important question is: what does this actually do to him? That's what I'm wondering. We've seen a prime minister resigning, taking an apple and cycling to the next election. That's what it looks like. But what does this mean for him, I ask the Prime Minister? Mr. Chairman. My other question is: why does the Prime Minister say that he has no direct involvement and no direct responsibility in this dossier? It's been mentioned a number of times. After all, he was the chairman of the Ministerial Commission on Approaching Fraud, wasn't he? He was also the one who said that the group that should get the damages should stay as small as possible. And he was also the man who spoke to the parents himself over a year ago, right? We've been able to see that. He even shed a tear. We are now more than a year away, and the parents are still in trouble. What do you mean, no direct involvement? What do you mean, no direct responsibility? How could the Prime Minister say such a thing? Mr. Chairman. At what times and what points has the government or the Tax Administration acted unlawfully? Mr Omtzigt has already asked for this. Then there is the discrimination that the government has committed itself to, and that is unacceptable. My specific question today is: is the Cabinet prepared to publish and clean up all algorithms used for risk selection? We want openness about everything that remains about discrimination and whether or not to use second nationality. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the biggest scandal today is, of course, that these parents are still, to this day, in misery. They need to get back the money that has been taken from them and a compensation for all the suffering, and that needs to be dealt with now. Earlier, this Chamber, because the government didn't want to do so, took a motion from us to do a pilot, namely: let the people just come to the office with their folder under the arm and just make sure it's resolved within a day, that it's settled, that people can come up with their papers, that they have a conversation, that they know where they are at the end of the day and that they get their money back. And you can. There are officials who have said to us: we can do this; in fact, we are ready to do it. We understand that these officials have still not heard from the cabinet. I want to know from the Prime Minister: how is that possible? How is that possible? Why does the cabinet bring out that the affected families are getting €30,000, when it later turns out that it is not in order? I've been asking about that. Why would you do something like that when you haven't finished the plan yet? Then the so-called hot/hor, a rather special abbreviation that stands for high award/high risk. Hot/hor, but actually you might want to say "horror," because that's what we're talking about here. This hot/hor-hor-horror concerns a group of people specifically picked out, deliberately, by the Tax Administration, with a high award. They are single parents with multiple children and low income, so they receive a correspondingly higher childcare allowance. And if you take it, it's easy to get your so-called targets, because that's where you get the most. And let that also be the most vulnerable group, the people with the lowest incomes, who, knowingly, have been caught the hardest. So it's not an accident. It is an institutional problem. It was deliberate, so it was policy. Prime Minister, how could something like this happen? Mr. Chairman. We wouldn't have been here if it were up to this government. According to the VVD, it would only be symbolic. We've already talked about that. The Prime Minister has not quit because mistakes have been made that have been swept under the carpet, because the rule of law has been violated or because the Chamber has been lied to. No, the only reason the cabinet fell is because governing seemed more harmful to the image than stepping down. We are also standing here because my colleagues Renske Leijten, Pieter Omtzigt and also Farid Azarkan, together with critical journalists, have bitten into it, and we are very grateful to them for that. We are also standing here because the SP hotline and the free legal services that we have throughout the country showed that the problem with the childcare allowance was not just a limited group of parents and so it was not an incident, but a much larger group and therefore a structural problem, an institutional problem. It is also no coincidence that this error with the surcharge scandal has happened. It is neoliberalism in the most cold form. The government as an enemy of people, handing out gifts to multinationals for years, so that people now need the childcare, care and rent allowance to make ends meet. When are we gonna stop doing this, I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister. Because this model is broken. We also see it in Groningen. The parallel was just laid by I believe Mr. Ommzigt. They will recognize much of what has emerged in this premium affair: the government that is not your ally, the government that is not on your side, but directly against you. When, I also ask the Prime Minister, is he going to correct that? Mr. Chairman. People have a right to an honest government, to honest politicians. In the meantime, this Prime Minister has the dubious honour of having a true doctrine in his name: make sure that you can withhold as much as possible, make sure that there is as little control as possible. That's the Ruttedoctrine. We have been able to see to the full what misery this causes, but of course we have seen it before. We saw it at the bombs on Hawija. We have had the dividend memos here, the support to the Syrian rebels, the receipts and the lies of Zijlstra. Each time the common thread was that the truth is only an option: only when there is no escape, the truth comes out. Then there's the alternative, as far as we're concerned. Because this must never happen again, that is clear. That is why, as far as we are concerned, a number of things need to be fundamentally different. One. The most important thing, of course, is that the parents are now compensated for the money she has been taken and the suffering she has suffered. We believe that they should be helped in all areas, both legally and personally. The government must not only compensate financially, but also simply offer help to these people. We also want a children's fund. I just mentioned it in an interruption. The children deserve, if hopefully all this misery is over, to be able to take their lives back with a clean slate. We will make another proposal for this today. Then there's the fees. As far as we are concerned, they must become superfluous, through affordable rents, affordable care and, of course, child care, and an honest income that you can get away with, even if you deserve the minimum wage. Thirdly, we want an honest government that is on the side of the people. That also means simply moving away from each-for-thought and investing in what is ours all. The surcharge affair has shown that our rule of law is in crisis. If people can't live up to their rights, injustice will continue to exist. That is why, as far as we are concerned, legal aid for people must be strengthened and administrative justice must be removed from the Council of State. Finally, Mr President. This must never happen again. Parents have been discriminated against, criminalized and destroyed. We owe it to them to come up with the bottom stone, for example in the area of discrimination. This cabinet isn't gonna do that anymore. I don't believe that. That is why there is only one possibility left, and that is a parliamentary survey. That is what we shall be proposing today. Mr. Rutte, we'll meet you back there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr. Chairman. For our part, too, I would like to thank those Members who have worked in the Van Dam Committee to get to the report Unfamiliar injustice. Not so long ago, we received a report from our parents. They had received an e-mail from their director and they were very shocked, because they had heard from the judge a few months before: you are debt-free. Of course, that came as some sort of redemption after the years of misery they had been in. They had gone to the pool with their children and had an ice cream. Actually very common things, but they hadn't done them in a very long time. With one stroke of pens, that administrator put an end to that good time, that hopeful time, because the administrator wrote that the compensation amount of €30,000 would be used to pay off their remaining debt and the creditor's name was the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. So it had to come to that. Over and over again, people have been duped and disappointed. Again a claim and again not the compensation on the account, no matter how often it has been called for from the Chamber. According to the cabinet, it couldn't get any faster and debts couldn't be cancelled. That last happy until yesterday, when the cabinet repented. Many people still have a debt of private creditors, and that is far from being settled. My first question to the cabinet is therefore: what is the cabinet going to do to relieve disabled parents of these private debts and when? Mr. Chairman. Our conclusion is that the resignation of the cabinet is mainly motivated by political marketing rather than by what politics should mean to people. I simply cannot come to another conclusion, because otherwise, compensation, debt cancellation and the openness of the investigation into the allegations of discrimination by the Tax Administration would have been done before. Then responsibility had been taken before. But the VVD, with the prime minister first, wouldn't resign. Now they hope their sin will be forgiven, but every child learns: saying sorry only counts if you really mean it. The conclusions of the interrogation committee are hard enough to say sorry. Several Cabinets, the case law, also the House of Representatives, other colleagues said it, even though they have violated the fundamental principles of the rule of law. People have been wronged in no way. Parliament and the media have been deliberately kept in the dark about this for years. That is why we owe it to all people in the Netherlands, whether they have been directly involved in this or not, to analyse how this careless fraud hunt could have taken place. For years, public distrust of citizens has been at the root of this. The germ for what we see now, what we are going to call the premium affair, was already laid on 22 July 2002. That's when the supplement system was devised. This Prime Minister was Secretary of State. Conjecture slowly, but most certainly and very pervasively, broke into all the systems of the government. The great promise, let me mention it in particular, is a right-wing promise of that surcharge system, because no one could get a single euro more than is absolutely necessary. That supplement would be matched with a mathematical precision to your income, to the level of your rent, the cost of health insurance and the cost of childcare. Care, childcare, living: it all had to be a market. Parents had to feel exactly how high the cost was and hold their hands for a surcharge. The idea behind it was that it would be efficient. The audit would take place afterwards. In that case, any euro that had been unduly paid would have to be repaid. That's what the law said. And efficiency became deeply rooted distrust. Secretary of State Rutte made the assistance even stricter later. In 2007, the judge ruled that he had committed ethnic profiling to tackle welfare fraud. The government agreement of the doogekabinet-Rutte I proposed a strict approach to fraud. Fraud involving benefits had to be recovered to the last penny. This followed the strict fraud law in 2012 at the initiative of the VVD and the CDA, followed by an even stricter law a year later. The Prime Minister cannot insist that he has no direct responsibility for this, because his fingerprints are on every page, every white-painted page. His first cabinet initiated this fraud approach. The Ruttedoctrine prevented parliament and journalism from finding out the truth. Only once it became public did the Prime Minister talk to the affected parents. What did that lead to? For a long time to nothing. For a long time, parents had to wait for compensation. And now Prime Minister Rutte bikes with an apple in his hand and a smile on his face away from his responsibility. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that I am not the first to say that to look at the role of the House of Representatives, our Parliament, and at the case law, the Council of State. Our proposal to investigate the role of the House of Representatives in the parliamentary interrogation committee was unfortunately blocked by a majority in this Chamber. But it is good to hear that many of us are willing to reflect on their own role. Mr. Chairman. Hard notes are cracked about the role of the Council of State in the report of the Van Dam Committee. Our proposal, which has also been made by other parties, is to separate the Administrative Department from the Advisory Section of the Council of State. That is one of the ways of preventing this from happening again in the future. Mr. Chairman. The affected parents have been haunted for years by a ruthless and discriminatory government. Once you were chosen by the algorithm, you never had a chance. Only in 2019 was an investigation started, but the bottom stone is still not above. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has been obstructed for years. We're not gonna get the report until March 31st of this year. And so my question to the Minister of Finance is: what has he done to combat discrimination and institutional racism in parts of the service, for which he is responsible? How are people addressed to this? I would like a detailed answer to that question. Mr. Chairman. It has to be different and it can also be different, namely by deciding together that the proposals that many of us put forward for this are being transposed into legislation and policies. Wise legislation, which is carefully drawn up with a test on implementation. First of all, the supplementing system itself must be put on the spot. This can be achieved by making childcare a public facility. We talked about that before. D66, GroenLinks and, I believe, the Christian Union have also made proposals for this. The Labour Party wants to organise this in that way too, and it can. Every child can find a nice, educational and safe place there and have a chance for a fair future, because such a child care facility is accessible to everyone. Wherever you live, no matter what your parents do or no matter how much money your parents make, there's the same kindergarten for everyone. Our proposal is there; I told you so. I hope that we will be able to work out these proposals in the coming period. We can also get rid of the rent and the care allowance. If people can just count on an affordable rent and if care is no longer a cost, it stops pumping around with money. Mr. Chairman. I have a second proposal. There must be a hardness clause in all social security legislation. A hardness clause is an emergency brake, so you could describe it so that people who are ground and end up in distressing situations can go somewhere and look at them. Not to a case, just to them. That is what the Labour Party would like to propose. We must also get rid of the ban on testing laws against the Constitution. Judges should be able to perform that test. That could have prevented a lot of misery. And the government needs to change. Our welfare state needs to be rebuilt, based on the assumption that public services, such as care and childcare, are not products or services in a competitive market for which an account has to be drawn up. They are amenities of all of us, which we all pay extra, which we all contribute to and which we can all reap the benefits from. Mr. Chairman. Summarizing: a generous and rapid compensation is needed, as is sincere truth and the reconstruction of the welfare state and the rule of law. That is what needs to be done now. Only then can we do justice to the suffering that has been done to the injured parents, and only then can we say that this must never happen again and this will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u201	Thank you. Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u202	First of all, congratulations on your presentation as the PvdA's list leader. Good luck in the next few weeks. I have heard Mrs Ploumen make some very interesting proposals for what can be done better in the future. I think we could find each other on many of those points. But I missed a little reflection, also on the role of the Labour Party in recent years. I have heard Mr Klaver, myself, even Mr Dijkhoff, say in his own contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u203	Even!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u204	Well, it is striking that so far only Mr Wilders has not wanted to apologize for the role we have played in recent years. I wanted to ask Mrs Ploumen about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u205	Lodewijk Asscher, until last week's group chairman of the Labour Party, has done more than just apologize. He has expressed his feelings of shame and he has, perhaps earlier than others, wanted to reflect and learn from what has gone wrong. Mr Jetten is right: it is very good that others do the same. But only in that way, and I think that's the only right way, with a sincere desire to face your own role, with a sincere desire to understand what went wrong and only under those conditions can you improve it. Because we can propose all kinds of measures, and that is what we are going to do, such as improving laws, but then too, things can go wrong. What we learn from this is that you have to keep the sharp eye, which you have to keep looking at and seeing signals with, constantly admit into yourself, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u206	I think it is important that it should be said not only in videos that this self-reflection refers to all of us, but also that it is expressed here in the plenary debate in this Chamber, and now also by the new chairman of the Labour Party. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u208	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers, on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u209	Thank you, Madam President. For my part, too, I would like to thank the members of the Van Dam committee, whose chairman I see sitting in the back of the Chamber, but also Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten for their hard work in this Parliament, which has ultimately been the starting point for this parliamentary interrogation committee. Madam President. I've heard stories from different duped parents and every time they make an impression. Just like last week from a woman who, in 2012, the year I became a Member of Parliament, received a first letter from the IRS, then handed in all her receipts, went to the IRS itself several times with plastic bags full of evidence, called, emailed, begged, and all in vain. She had to pay back tens of thousands of euros, got into trouble with her housing corporation, got fired, lost her job and got into debt relief problems. Because she had been identified as a fraudster, had charged the suspicion of fraud on her own, she was not eligible for this. She couldn't provide additional insurance, which meant she couldn't go to the dentist for years. That stress caused her to have severe, also physical complaints. The worst thing was that her own parents truly believed the government, because it always spoke the truth, that it was indeed a fraud. That wasn't a crazy idea either, after the Supreme Administrative Court also proved the government right. If a victim no longer saw any way out, then such a person wrote a desperate letter to the minister or even to the king and then got back in response that one could not go into individual cases. Madam President, whatever they did, whoever they turned to, these people didn't stand a chance for years. The policy was merciless in that respect. That's serious. Church Father Augustine once said: what is the difference between a government and a robber gang? That is the law and the rule of law. If we don't have the law and the rule of law, then the government is nothing but a robber gang. That is why our rule of law is so crucial and it is more than serious if citizens have been wronged for so long and so systematically. The resignation of the cabinet last Friday is a political recognition of unprecedented injustice. The Christian Union Group supports that decision. That suffering cannot be undone. All these years of tension, sorrow, anger, injustice and shame can no longer be washed back. But that political responsibility has been taken for that unprecedented injustice is the beginning of recognition. I hope that beginning will help the victims. But in the meantime, we are standing here today at the shards of broken lives and sometimes even of broken lives. In the event of the failure of the rule of law, where the government has not been a shield for the weak. This calls for an intrusive self-reflection and an intrusive debate. Madam President. Our democratic rule of law has failed in this affair across the board: the legislator, we here, the chamber of reflection, the executive, officials, the judiciary. And even they are not separated from a society in which sometimes we are all merciless to another and do not tolerate any mistake from another. Before I ask my questions and invite the cabinet to self-reflection, self-reflection must also begin with ourselves, as a Chamber, with me and with our own group. The premium affair started here with legislation, with political choices, with choices of ours. Choices to work with surcharges. Choices to adopt in 2005 a law stating that the supplement can be revised and recovered. At that time, the Council of State said: "Build a hardness clause." We didn't listen to it. We didn't do it. This law has been widely accepted, including our own group. When Bulgarian fraud came to light, we all "shame!" Called. A fraud law came into force in 2012 which required welfare recipients and WW recipients to repay the full benefit in case of minimal errors, plus a fine equivalent to the full benefit. The Council of State has strongly advised not to do so. He said: you cannot make a sufficient distinction between malpractice and unintentional negligence. This law has been widely accepted, including our own group. In September 2013, the Law on Fraud Fees and Taxation was unanimously adopted. Then there were several motions that have called to look at customization. The Christian Union's voting behaviour on this issue varied, but the motions did not make it. Madam President. This affects the functioning of the Chamber. It's affecting our functioning. We need to become more resistant to hypes and listen better to advisors like the Council of State. We need to make legislation more serious and give more room for mercy in legislation. We need to ask out loud whether laws can be implemented. It also affects the functioning of the cabinet. Citizens must be able to trust the government, but that is only possible if the government also trusts its citizens. Cabinet and public policy must not be based primarily on mistrust, but on confidence. Look at Groningen. Colleagues have already said it. We've been talking for so long and so little has happened. What's the cabinet going to do with the lessons we're taking today, which we're drawing from this report, different in Groningen? We're also getting another source of information. I am concerned about that, because in the desire to share everything, we were given information just before the debate. Colleague Marijnissen was already very visual with an orchestra full. If that becomes a habit, we will get more and more politicisation of the civil service, but also more and more bureaucratic politicians. And we don't want that. I don't want an endless amount of government facts. I want the government's honesty. I don't want a cabinet that puts us through files, I want a cabinet that just answers questions. Mr Omtzigt came up with his questions, but he received answers which always referred to the same answer. You'll feel the frustration. We have all had a file that we really wanted to ask through, but in which time and again you didn't get an answer to very normal questions you asked. I'm not waiting for a file, I'm waiting for honesty. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its intention to review legislation and ask the Ombudsman to look into it, and to correct unmerciful legislation. Think of assistance, fraud legislation, but perhaps also youth care. But the judiciary, too, should be allowed to pass on to us uncompassionate laws in practice. Is the cabinet prepared to do so and does the cabinet agree? Then I have two more questions, Madam President. What happened and what else has to happen? First of all, what happened? My question to the Prime Minister is what else he could have done. What is his reflection on his own role and his own political choices? What was the role of the Anti-Fraud Commission he presided over? How does the Prime Minister himself look at misinformation of the Chamber? I read a fairly general recognition of this, but not a specific one. Could the Prime Minister go into that more specifically? When and how did he say it went wrong? And then: was nationality in the Tax Administration's investigations or not an indicator in the risk selection? "No," writes the Secretary of State in her answers. But the newspaper Trouw said "yes" rather. In 2014, a major investigation was carried out into all people who have applied for a supplement and whose first or two nationality is Ghanaian. What exactly is that about? What's to be done? My big question is, why is this compensation being so slow? That question has already been asked by others. There are people who have already received €750 compensation. The names are known of them. Of them, the account numbers are known. Why can't they get €30,000 transferred? What remains to be determined in order to transfer them now? Can't that just happen this week or next week? It is a good thing that debts have been forgiven by the government, but the victims still have uncertainty about what happens to the rest of their debts. What about their debts with health insurance companies and banks? The Secretary of State writes that she is in consultation with municipalities for a tailor-made approach. But she can't just put that responsibility on the board of municipalities, can she? Will they be compensated for this? Will they also be given the financial space to do so? Isn't it more appropriate to direct Social Services instead of the Tax Office? Social Affairs has the Broad Debt approach; it focuses on people, not on the system, and not on the rules. We must move towards a different tax system, towards a system without surcharges. Several colleagues have already said it. We must move towards a simpler, fairer and fairer tax system. Everyone has to put forward their proposals for this. The Christian Union Group has tabled its own proposal. It's up to the voter to judge. But it's possible. It's possible. I am only going to say that to Mr Dijkhoff once more. Finally, Madam President. This cabinet, in which the Christian Union is also represented, wrote in the government agreement that it wants to stand up for a government that is there for the people who feel that that government is not there for them. That is precisely where it has gone horribly wrong for years to come. And that's painful. The cabinet is no longer missionary, but as far as I'm concerned, it continues to work on another government, with a human face. The mission of all of us. The Christian Union will continue to work for this purpose now and after 17 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u210	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you, Mr President. It is easy to say that there has been injustice and the rule of law is at stake. But the suffering that lies behind it has become visible, including through the SP hotline and by persistent journalists. A parent was taken hostage for six months because of her tax debt; she lost house and job and her children no longer live with her. Marriages are on the rocks. Children have been placed out of the house. People were forced to sell their homes or were evicted. People are severely traumatized, and so are the children, especially the children. Mr. Chairman. The very first thing I noticed in the letter sent by the cabinet on Friday was that it wrote that parents had had a hard time. No, they're still having a really hard time. Everything must be aimed at helping these people: pay back what they have been taken from them in terms of money, and provide as much help as possible so that they can take back the life they have not been able to live for years. As a result, they have suffered mental and physical damage, and so have their children. Every effort must be made to help these people and to ensure that these children can build a future. Mr. Chairman. Is that what the Cabinet's gonna do? The Party for Animals simply has doubts about that. Because why was a whole year wasted after the Minister of Finance and Minister Rutte spoke to these parents? Finally! This was due to a motion from the Chamber, as is the case with all the movements made by the Cabinet: by pushing through the Chamber. Why didn't they act in that year to protect these people? I really don't understand that. I really do not understand how the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, should be able to insist that he is very concerned, that he is very sorry and that he says after it: but I was not involved. You've spoken to those people. Why didn't the Treasury and the Tax Administration have an obligation to report every week on how things were now? The Prime Minister was indeed involved. The documents show that he has actively opposed that there was rapid compensation. Above all, we did not need to have a precedent. I've never heard him say that about companies, but when it comes to vulnerable people. Mr. Chairman. I forgot to start with the fact that, in this case, where do you start with the mention of brave MPs, who took the lead in controlling the cabinet on behalf of all of us when there were signs that the legal protection of vulnerable people in the Netherlands was not working at all well? I call them by name: Mrs Renske Leijten, Mr Pieter Omtzigt and Mr Farid Azarkan. I would also like to thank the Van Dam Committee and the Members of Parliament who have taken part in it for continuing this work. The Chamber has indeed carried out and wished to carry out its controlling task, but has been directly opposed. It's very serious. Of this seriousness, we still see far too little in the way in which the cabinet responded to the report. The question is real: was the decision to resign honest and sincere? Or was it what we know about Rutte: that there will only be movement when there really is no escape? That makes a lot of difference in this matter. People now crave a government of integrity that means what it says. Mr. Chairman. Then it creates little confidence that the answers to the questions put by Mr Omtzigt, for example, which were answered last night, are of the same caliber again, namely: we see no added value in informing the Chamber about the timeline, about that crucial memo-Palmen, which shows that the cabinet could have known that it went wrong. How is that possible? On Friday, the cabinet writes a letter saying: "Everything is going to be different. We're gonna do better from now on. The Ruttedoctrine is off the table." And on Monday, there's a bunch of answers from the same sheet, a suit. Mr. Chairman. So the answer to the question of whether this was an honest decision, or the cabinet headed by Mr Rutte... I would like to acknowledge that there are other rulers for whom it was indeed an honest decision, but with the Prime Minister I would say: the disadvantage of the doubt. Just as these people have always had the disadvantage of the doubt. We don't believe anything's gonna change. I also have the same question for the Minister of Finance. How can it be promised on Friday that everything will be changed and that on Monday from the Ministry of Finance, for which Mr Hoekstra is simply ultimately responsible, there will be the same kind of non-answer to crucial questions from the Chamber? That is just another insult from Parliament, which is trying to get the truth out of these people and try to work on recovery on behalf of the victims. Then you didn't learn anything, did you? Not again! Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has set himself up that bothers us very much as a kind of day president, someone you can hire: "Well, it happens to be the Council of Ministers, but what do I really have to do with it? I don't know about that either." And if you, as a citizen, manage to sit around the table with him, so that requires a motion from the Chamber; Farmers Defence Force may always come, but citizens don't, then the Prime Minister exudes: "Well, if I already know about your problems, I'm not gonna solve them for you. Then I'll dive away another year." Colleagues have spoken about it in the media and here in the Chamber today, but I am not going to discuss who is going to be the leader of the list. That's not part of the relationship in our state law. But I can strongly advise people not to vote for such politicians; let me just put it that way. Mr. Chairman. We're a long way from here. We hope that the cabinet will again be encouraged by the Chamber today; it seems that it will still have to take the steps to finally do justice to these people, to help them and to really restore the structural concrete rot in our rule of law. We don't see the evidence yet. Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to know from the Prime Minister whether he recognizes that there is institutional racism in the Netherlands. I would also very much like the cabinet today to explain in detail how it is going to deal with this as quickly as possible. The first sketch given doesn't convince yet. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know whether the government formally recognises liability for the damage suffered and for the responsibility to recover it. The leaders have made it clear to us that this is important. I think they're right. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. At the IRS, they were guilty until proven guilty. This is completely contrary to how it is meant by the rule of law. The parents were incredibly quickly guilty in the eyes of the IRS. This happened in a culture that was not created by Rutte, but by his predecessors, but which was perfected by Rutte. In it officials spend all day trying to keep their ruler out of the wind. This summer we also read the conversations NRC has had with officials who simply say: we do everything informally, without reporting, with post-its on notes, so that they can and can be discarded. In such a culture it is of course easy to say: I did not know; those signals have not reached me. You organized it yourself, so you can always say: I didn't know, I didn't know; maybe there was someone at the ministry who knew, but he didn't tell me. That is next to the Ruttedoctrine de Rutte style, which has also been fed by Balkenende. I think it's already started under Cook II. So Rutte isn't the only one doing it, but we really have to get rid of it. What can people notice that the government isn't going to operate like this anymore? The government is powerful. We've been able to see what that power can do to people. That calls for good counterpower. Mr Omtzigt talks about this on a regular basis. I'm grateful to him for that. The counterpower is organized here, for example, in parliament. The Chamber is the highest organ. We have a Constitution, to which the Prime Minister must comply, with Article 68. I am very shocked that he said in the interviews: if it suits me politically, I decide not to send documents to the Chamber for a moment. Then you're breaking the Constitution directly. That seems unsustainable to me for someone who wants to stay in his position. Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Marijnissen said, today is the first debate after the fall of the cabinet, but it is certainly not the end of the debates on this affair. This scandal, I have to say. Mr Omtzigt made proposals and asked questions. Mrs Marijnissen has put forward a number of proposals for a parliamentary survey and a children's fund. I propose that we support these proposals with 150 Members of Parliament in favour and 0 against, as has often been the case in this dossier. Mr. Chairman. The outgoing cabinet will therefore have to consider the structural degradation of the rule of law. It's not just about this file. It is structuralally about negotiating with our rule of law if vulnerable interests are at stake. Not if the interests of companies are at stake, no: vulnerable interests. There are citizens who can't go anywhere, who live in a Netherlands where we seem to think it's normal that your income doesn't even allow you to pay for your home, your care or even child care. In a world like this, you're actually handed over to the government to ask for mercy: can I get a supplement, or I won't make it? And that government is gonna get you, too. That's double, double wrong. That requires a debate, a reflection. How do we relate to vulnerable interests? How do we deal with that? How important do we make interests that cannot stand up for themselves? That should lead us to agree: sure, that surcharge system should be removed, but we are also going to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands simply has sufficient income and that vulnerable people do not become dependent on surcharges and government. This also applies to other cases in which the cabinet has received ticks. I call it the Urgenda case. There the highest judge simply said: the cabinet is doing too little to protect the lives and well-being of citizens. That is something that we can now take to heart because no one is dying of climate change, but that is what the judge says. Mr. Chairman. Finally, very specific. The cabinet also got a hit on the SyRI documents: collecting data and producing algorithms. There is now another super-SyRI in the First Chamber. The cabinet would be well advised to withdraw them as well as to learn the lessons to be drawn from this very painful tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u212	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unavoidable and understandable. Those were the words that came up to me when we heard the news about the cabinet's application for resignation. For over the last few months and years, the picture of this supplementing affair has become ever sharper. The report of the Van Dam parliamentary interrogation committee played an important role in this. I would also like to express the appreciation and thanks of the SGP for the members of this committee from this point on. But I would also like to mention in one breath the persistence of colleagues, Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, who have made a special effort to this end. Mr Omtzigt also showed that an intimate link between coalition and cabinet should at least not stand in the way of a critical commitment and a vigorous input. So also compliments for that persistence. Mr. Chairman. As we could zoom in more and more, the image also became more staggering. The title has indeed lingered with many, I think. He was also very well chosen and strikingly chosen: Unfamiliar injustice. Principles of the rule of law have been violated. Public information and information services were not in order. And most importantly, the human measure has completely lost sight of it. It has already been outlined today with many words: the harsh reality of parents and children who have to live with deep wounds for years and still have to live with deep wounds. We all know those poignant stories of parents dealing with huge money problems and, no less so, tensions in families and marriages. There are sad stories about children dealing with stress and other problems. There are stories about families who have suffered hard under years of injustice. The scars will, I fear, stay, but it is our expensive duty to do everything we can to do justice to all those people, to all those families, so that they can close this nasty chapter as soon as possible and as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Just before Christmas, all the proposals have been made to give all parents €30,000. That is a sympathetic gesture, but I was struck by the fact that it was said to the Chamber over and over again: a lump sum cannot be paid out to all parents, because that money goes directly to creditors. Motions have been dissuaded at this point, because it was impossible. You can actually see that pattern coming back. I'd like to take a look at that. How is it that the Chamber has always been told that certain things could not or were not enforceable, when it turned out to be possible later? Last week, the report showed up that the Tax Administration seemed to be standing in front of the line to collect outstanding debts. Last night, a letter was sent to clarify this. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that, after obtaining compensation for the liquidation of debts, parents can actually start a clean slate? Mr. Chairman. I already mentioned it: the words information and information management were rightly given a lot of attention in the cabinet letter with the response. I should also like to congratulate the cabinet on the clear letter. I noticed everything that has really been taken care of to record exactly how improvements are sought at those pain points and to avoid repetition. That's perfectly right. It is right that the cabinet does not say: it starts with ministerial responsibility, we have taken the ultimate political consequence, leaving it to the next cabinet. No, the question is also being questioned: how could it go wrong and what have we already started to prevent repetition? The cabinet wants to take major steps on a number of points. For example, in the information, by going to share pieces with the Chamber. It sounds attractive to radically opt for full transparency. But I think it's also good to have an eye for the risks. Colleagues have also mentioned the dilemma that, if you choose to send a lot of pieces all to the Chamber, a kind of shady shadow circuit of oral tradition in ministries can easily be strengthened. That doesn't make you much of a step forward. Then you get a fabulous world of public documents, in which the considerations that really matter disappear out of the picture for fear of disclosure. And what does it mean for the way officials work if every contribution to a letter of inquiry becomes public? The official service should also have the security to be able to argue, without having all kinds of consequences, for example that you can later be tapped on your fingers, or be addressed in the sense of: yes, but you get us into trouble because of this. Isn't that also very important for the functioning of that state service? How is that weighted by the cabinet? One final point in this context. How does the cabinet intend to prevent a flood of information, which hinders the view of reality rather than clarifies it? In fact, that was the point Mrs Marijnissen made when she was waving that fat file. The cabinet wants to sit closer to the execution through frequent case consultations across the broad lines of the organisation. I was wondering: how does this relate to the position of independent administrative bodies? Is there a need for a review here, too? In the past, this whole construction of the independent administrative bodies has been co-invented to say: you really need to put the execution a little further away. Now we're actually gonna get it back. The case meeting even goes a long way. I understand that and I support the idea, but what does this mean for the position of independent administrative bodies? Moreover, I think it is very positive that the cabinet has the desire to bring the Tax Administration and the government literally close to the citizen, for example by opening more counters, so that people can speak of flesh and blood more often. My colleague, Mr Stoffer, has asked for this earlier in a debate. We constantly notice at all levels of government functioning how important it is for people to be able to tell the story personally to people of flesh and blood, that they know themselves heard and that something is being done with it. The cabinet is more likely to publish personal policy ideas from documents drawn up for internal reflection. Why hasn't the existing option been used more often? The laws are too harsh on all kinds of points, we have seen, but at this point the law offered room for customization and the law allowed us to make use of that possibility. So I'd like another reflection on that. The cabinet wants more tailor-made work, including in special administrative law, and generally wants to adapt the legislation. We also support this, but on the other hand we have the question again: is it not a cultural problem? There is already a great deal of room for tailor-made work. If you say "we shouldn't have that, we're going to formulate it very imperatively and compellingly," can that not also result in situations where administrative bodies say: yes, but it's actually awkward that it's so compelling here? On this point too, therefore, I would like to draw attention to the dilemmas that lie behind all the good intentions. I think it's fair to have an eye for that, too. Honestly, on this whole subject, I noticed that you're looking for the villain, the villain, who did it all. You can grab it by the scraps. It is so often a sum of all kinds of people who all had reasonable arguments as to why they did what they did, but with a terrible result, as we see with each other. That is why I do not think it will help to say that everyone has to do better and that they will be fine. We will also have to look at how we can shape the improvements so that what we are aiming for with each other is actually brought closer. Mr. Chairman. My group is very enthusiastic about the cabinet's intention to introduce a more stringent review of new legislation one year after its introduction, the so-called introduction test. In my group's view, the Chamber should also play an important role in this, for example by holding hearings and round tables, in which the Chamber itself takes the initiative to review and review legislation. I would also like to include the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State of June last year, in which the Council puts its finger on the sometimes baffling interplay between Cabinet and Chamber. I call on the Cabinet and the Chamber to take the recommendations it makes seriously and to move forward. For example, it focused on contacts between officials and members of parliament. Widening these contacts can also make a really good contribution to the better interplay between the Chamber and the Government. We saw nice examples of this at the beginning of the whole corona crisis. For example, there was a lot of criticism of bringing back Dutch people from abroad. I noticed that we had a better view of the implementation problems when we had a good hearing in which officials openly indicated what they were facing. As a result, on the one hand there was more appreciation for the official service, because sometimes you underestimate how much work is being done. At the same time, it gave us more real insight into what was encountered in practice. As far as our group is concerned, we would also be doing good on that side, extending contacts between officials, MPs, parliamentary committees and so on. Mr. Chairman. I just indicated that there are a lot of guys responsible for the supplementing affair. The danger is that in the end no one is responsible. That is why it is a good thing that the cabinet has taken responsibility, but also that the Second Chamber shows self-reflection. The Chamber must take its own initiative, and so must I and my work on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Looking back, we also say that we too have lost sight of the human dimension in the quest for clarity and effectiveness in the fight against fraud. We have also gone along with legislation, which we say afterwards: it has been unmerciful. And of course, the fight against fraud should not become taboo, which remains necessary, but fraud hunts do. The lesson must be that Parliament must be much more alert to the possible harmful consequences of laws in the practice of life. More human size and more attention to the implementation and more attention to the consequences of our choices are urgently needed, not only in the case of the surcharges but also in other files. Finally. Mr Dijkhoff said 'a strong government', but I would like to say that he is also a modest government. There is also a lot of hubris in all kinds of projects, such as the surcharges that millions of people get. We will all settle that for a while, but here too the complexity is often stronger than thought. We can't expect everything from that government. The Chamber can't shut down everything with laws and rules. A little more confidence, appropriate modesty and critical self-reflection can do a lot of good together. Trust is not something you can dictate. It's something you can win piece by piece. You have to be credible, you have to sail a course, you don't promise things that can't be realized and you have to be open and honest. This requires actions which underline the words spoken. You are a government and we are a parliament for this task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u214	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the committee led by Mr Van Dam for the good work, the sharp questions and the sharp report. Mr. Chairman. For me and for a lot of people here in the room, this is just an envelope from the Tax Administration, but there are a lot of parents who sweat when they see this envelope. They get palpitations and have to sit down before they open it, because that's the service that really made their lives impossible. Mr. Chairman. I also want to start with a compliment to the parents. I bow deeply to the patience and self-control they have brought. After sometimes 12 years of being so broken up, still find the courage to go on and stay calm: I give it to you to do. Mr. Chairman. Rutte is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands for ten years. Under the responsibility of this Prime Minister, a government has been created that has been able to profile ethnically for years, has discriminated against, has trampled on people, has ignored our rule of law, has driven citizens to despair and even suicide. A government that has played the game so mean and ruthless that citizens have no chance. The consequences are disastrous. Of tens of thousands of parents and 75,000 children, life has been destroyed by this government. Parents who are ashamed of being branded as fraud because they couldn't give their children anything. I've been hearing these stories since 2013. At first, I really didn't believe them. I thought our government couldn't be like that. A good friend of mine, who has a host parents' office, told me stories. I worked in the government myself and said, "I can't do that, it doesn't do us any good." I pushed that away. Mr. Chairman. But I've also spoken to a single mother with three children in recent years, one of whom has a disability. The Tax Office had suddenly stopped the child care allowance and refused to take the file into consideration. Every time it had to be made available, the handler had suddenly disappeared. She said to me, "I got desperate. I couldn't go forward or backwards. In the meantime, I got a court order from the city. The IRS had informed the city that I had committed fraud. All of a sudden, I was blacklisted. I was in a reintegration process and started a business using a loan, because I wanted to be independent. I wanted to make my own money." But the city demanded this loan immediately. The case was closed and she was forced to unsubscribe from the Chamber of Commerce. The consequences: two years no income, zero. She didn't get any support from the municipality, there was no job, and there was no supplement. The debts ran out. She said, "I was deeply ashamed, because I had to beg with my family and friends. They helped a little bit, but it was survival every day, puzzle with the rent allowance." The stress and despair struck. The claims of the Tax Administration were only growing. She couldn't pay the rent anymore. The housing corporation was already at the door with a moving car and even wanted to take the beds of the children. In the meantime, everything that came in was taken away by the Tax Administration: the rent allowance, the care allowance and the child-related budget. She got depressed and desperate. She asked for help from the city, but she said, "Your own fault, big bump," because you're a fraud. She had to spend nights on dry bread and water. The worst part was that she couldn't go to a rehab clinic with her kid with a disability, because the car had been taken away by the IRS. She had failed: I could not protect my children. The shame and the despair. She wanted to escape that hopelessness and misery, but she couldn't, because who would take care of the children? She said to me, "I still don't know what I've done. What did I do to deserve this? Just because I have a different origin?" Mr. Chairman. A lot of the guys who got hurt pulled the doorbell. They filed massive objections, starting with CAF 11. The parents and their lawyers were systematically and skillfully reduced by the almighty government. There seemed to be light at the end of the tunnel with the Ombudsman's report. When I was talking about 2017 the conclusions were harsh: the Tax Administration did not take sufficient account of the citizen's perspective, there is a high risk of financial adverse effects on innocent parents, the Tax Administration has acted out of proportion, stopped and then requested information, the handling of the objections has been seriously flawed. The Ombudsman concluded that the average time limit was 18 months instead of six weeks. All this time, you just couldn't do anything as a parent. It was the average term. The advice was: apologize to this group of parents and compensate the parents. I don't understand it to this day. These conclusions should put all the signals on red, but why didn't the rulers do anything about it? I made the call myself in one-on-one conversations with the Secretary of State. I was really bewildered not to intervene. We saw that colleagues, like Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, but also other colleagues, were like: there is great injustice here; here we have to fight with each other. But despite the demands of MPs, the cabinet remained the same to its own. The IRS kept on torturing the parents and the children. Hurry, Hoekstra and Rutte didn't see it or didn't want to see it. I remember we had a discussion in which a letter from the Director-General was discussed. He said that in the CAF 11 case, half of them objected and were right. But then the other half is still guilty. I told them a lot of parents didn't like it anymore. They wanted to get rid of that debt, withdrew and didn't object because they didn't want to have the stamp "frauder." That didn't mean they were guilty at all. The victims had hardly any access to the law, because it was demolished by the VVD. Co-workers from the SP have already said that. Mr Van Nispen has fought hard against this. It has been built together, also with the colleagues from GroenLinks. If you got a social attorney, who received €700 in compensation, you were facing Pels Rijcken & Drying Lever Fortuine, who supported the government and caught €25,000. The IRS played it mean and ruthless. From withholding information in court cases through the oral death of whistleblowers to ignoring internal memos with critical sounds. Even the country's attorney's advice was in the wind. Almost all these parents had a second nationality, a different origin, or had a partner with a second nationality. Or they were at a host parents' office whose owner had a non-Dutch origin. Why were these civilians outlaws? What was the role of the ministers responsible? What was the role of our institutions? Why can it be that a High College of State like the Ombudsman comes up with a sharp report and that no follow-up is given to it? I don't understand that to this day. What was the role of our Prime Minister? He indicated himself not to be directly involved in the hunt for these innocent civilians. We know Rutte's always looking for the escape lane when it gets too hot under his feet. Then he's lost his memory. He is a prime minister who has no active memories of essential matters that can burden him. But he is the Prime Minister who led the Ministerial Commission Approach Fraud, where nationality was also used as a selection criterion. It's written in black and white. Mr. Chairman. The Donner Committee tried to cover up a cover-up with incomplete conclusions and fine words. I have said it before: institutional bias. No, it was just discrimination. Let's call that animal by the name. So now we're not naming that again? I've asked questions, almost 100, about second nationality. "No, Mr. Azarkan, in 2014 we registered no nationality." The Dutch Data Protection Authority notes that after an investigation of more than a year the government broke the law in three ways: not only nationality, but also place of birth or surname were decisive. "No, Mr. Azarkan, there are no blacklists." But there were. It had 150,000 people on it. Suddenly 9,000 files had disappeared. Ministers were advised in preparation for the parliamentary survey to remain vague about double nationality, on what role it played. It seems that we will not get the real answer until after the elections. Mr. Chairman. We know the creed of Rutte in trouble: we do a puddle, we raise the glass and everything remained as it was. Not this time. A number of things must now be dealt with as quickly as possible. Parents should be accompanied on a multiannual basis. We support the call for a fund for these parents to be able to continue to accompany them on a multiannual basis, and we will work with other parties. But also the bottom stone has to be upstairs. Although many questions have been asked and we have received a lot of answers less than 24 hours ago, the question is whether all the key players have spoken the truth in the interrogation. That is why we support colleagues' call for a parliamentary survey. However, I would also like to have a wide-ranging review of other public authorities, and I have already submitted that request three times, but also to UWV and insurers. A new form of discrimination, which is becoming increasingly widespread, is digital discrimination. A number of colleagues spoke about this, such as the spokesmen of D66, but also of GroenLinks. With the use of algorithms, people are categorized on second nationality and ethnic background. That too should stop. Mr. Chairman. We want criminal prosecution. Because can you discriminate against tens of thousands of civilians for 12 years without penalty? You're allowed to break laws for 12 years, with unprecedented suffering? Can you say "sorry" when we draw up a report together with very harsh conclusions - the sharpest one in 70 years - I have heard a colleague say "and when citizens have been wronged so much?" Then you hide behind "institutional bias." Can you violate the rule of law in this unprecedented manner? DENK doesn't think so. No one's allowed to break the law. Today must be the day when we show to the Netherlands that discrimination and that lying about it for many years cannot go unpunished. It would be good if the rulers were to answer. Mr. Chairman. Article 1 of the Constitution and the articles against discrimination in the Code of Criminal Law have been infringed by the criminal selection of nationality. And that while several rulers Rutte, Asscher, Wiebes, Quickly knew this, could have known this or should have known this. It can't be that Rutte and his associates get away with this crime. It must not be possible for them to stand above the law simply because they are ministers. Finally, Mr President. On 17 March, during the elections, the Dutch have the opportunity to deal with racism and discrimination. On 17 March, Dutch people can vote for a fair and just Netherlands. Many political parties in this house have participated in the government becoming a tough and racist monster. After March 17th, we must break down this racist system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u216	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee for its thorough work and for exposing the collective failure of many public authorities. I would also like to thank Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten for their persistence. 50PLUS shares the Committee's view that the fundamental principles of the rule of law have been violated. Citizens were seen as enemies. We've got to get rid of this suspicion. Citizens should be able to count on fair treatment, paying attention to the individual situation of the people and a difference between malpractice and an administrative error. 50PLUS considers it right that this cabinet has fallen. It's not a trifle. This is a major problem that has been playing for years and still hasn't been solved. Apologies and a fallen cabinet won't get you your house back. They don't undo the divorce and they don't recover the years your children had to live in poverty. They won't give back your job or your health. So money cannot compensate for everything, but these parents deserve to be paid justice to the damage suffered. They must be generously compensated for all damage suffered. They really need to benefit from the advance of €30,000. Can we assume that, too? What is this cabinet going to do about the collection costs, about the collection agencies, about the debts with banks, about housing corporations? Will everything that has already been repaid be repaid as well? In short, what exactly is the plan to compensate everyone completely and generously? Mr. Chairman. I was allowed to work with the government for a few years. Then, as an official, you take an oath in which you promise to be careful, incorruptible and reliable and do nothing that harms the standing of the office. Officials should be aware of the oath they have taken. They're not here to shield a governor or a government agency. They are there to make good legislation for the citizens and to implement it in good conscience. Because of this misery, trust in the government and the public authorities has been severely damaged, not least by the fact that it mainly concerned parents with dual nationality. We have had a discussion here in the Chamber about institutional racism, about algorithms that have helped it. Parents have repeatedly indicated that they have experienced that they have been treated differently from others. Parents are also confronted with discriminatory or inappropriate language. That's something to be ashamed of. That is unacceptable. Can the Prime Minister assure us that this is no longer the case? It is also particularly distressing that the fact that the administration has contributed to the maintenance of the harsh implementation, which is not necessarily the result of the legislation. Especially when you realize that they found it acceptable that if €190 was paid too little, a claim of €17,000 followed. Only in 2019 will the Council of State come to its senses. Lady Justitia makes a fair balance. If citizens can't rely on that already, where do you get your rights? I do not read enough about this in the letter from the cabinet. Can the Prime Minister respond to the response of the former President of the Supreme Court in the NRC to split the administrative agreement from the Council of State? We have a motion to examine the role of the Council of State in this. Yes, there were officials who expressed doubts, asked questions and were concerned about the consequences of the sentence imposed. A good example was Mrs Palmen's note, which rightly raises critical questions for the management team. And that management team should be ashamed that nothing has been done with her advice. How can signals from the workplace not get through and how will this be secured in the future? That one simple sentence in the letter about better routes for how signals from the workplace get through, you can't get through with it. There really needs to be some fundamental change. What's been set in motion before this? How do we get the human size back? That within the premium and benefit factories there are professionals who get time and space to offer customization for those who need it? At least 94% of the cases were wrong afterwards. Inevitably labeled as a fraud. However, if you acknowledge that you are wrong on the basis of the National Ombudsman's report, it is incomprehensible that there is no direct financial compensation. No, Secretary of State Wiebes doesn't want to be too humble in the letter. And the then appointed Secretary of State spends fixing compensation to a committee. You can also question the composition of this committee, with a former Secretary of State for Social Affairs and a former Vice-President of the Council of State. How objective can people who have been part of these organisations for years be? Why did the Secretary of State get rid of the responsibility? Let us not make a decision ourselves, but outsource it. My question to this cabinet is: is this course of action now on the shovel? And then: how seriously does this cabinet, especially the Prime Minister, take the House of Representatives? Over and over again, information was withheld. There's a ukaze-kok that everyone's neurotic to. Because if an official is in direct contact with a Member of Parliament, it seems to be a poisonous cocktail. And then we have the Ruttedoctrine. Prime Ministers who leave their prints in official organizations based on: what they don't know, they can't ask either. Or does the Prime Minister see this differently? Failure to implement Article 68 of the Constitution, informing Members of Parliament, is unacceptable. Especially not to record anything, because then it cannot be requested by journalists and MPs. Tough, tricky, tricky. What's really gonna change? The letter speaks of a radical change. I hope you will forgive us for being rather suspicious, because something that has been broken down into ministries for years will not change you overnight. In the debate last week, I mentioned it earlier also about the open government, there are still a lot of motions that were not recommended on this issue. So see first and then believe. We really need to simplify the payment system so that people don't get into any more trouble. A new cabinet should make this a top priority. It is good that many political parties are paying attention to this. Indeed, 50PLUS did set an example last year with a groundbreaking tax plan and fortunately, as I said, more colleagues are doing so. That's the good news on this file for the long term. Because we often talk about the citizens for whom the whole system is too complicated, but I note that the system has also become far too complicated for officials who have to implement it. They have to implement continuously and simultaneously so many different tax rules, laws and legislative changes that assembly line work is almost inevitable. To allow attention to the human dimension to be overcome, a simple and transparent system is not a tax utopia, but an absolute must. The child care affair is a terrible highlight. The fact that parents were used as a financial turntable for this supplement has led to a climax of misery. With this scheme, with these huge sums and this endless list of different rates of compensation for each income group, one can only think: how did politics ever approve this unfortunate scheme? That is why we can also look critically at ourselves. The House of Representatives should not be rushed and should never adopt legislation again without a hardness clause. Customisation must be possible at all times. The Chamber should look more closely at the feasibility and enforcement of legislation. This can be done by discussing this feasibility with implementing organisations, and by looking after a year at whether the legislation works as it is intended. That means having a conversation with the citizens concerned. If that had happened, all the problems would have become apparent much earlier. No one has clean hands in this file, but there is one continuous factor: the Prime Minister. A man of teflon. Everything always slips away from him. Nevertheless, I hope that the misery of today's parents will remain with him, because then perhaps he will take the trouble to find a goat path, to use all his energy and skill to quickly and adequately solve the problems for the parents. Otherwise, you have no business in politics anymore. Now the Rutte III cabinet is finally going through the dust and we are going to face a missionary period. It sounds ultimate, a fallen cabinet, but the sacrifice is made just before the election. We assume that this outgoing cabinet will do whatever it takes to manage the corona crisis, but as far as compensation for all parents is concerned, which must be top priority, we will repeat once again: first see, then believe. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u218	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Everyone's jealous of your haircut, I see, because everyone has some sort of lockdown haircut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u219	Thank you. Whoever wants, I have my hairdresser's phone number available to you. Mr. Chairman. Trust in the government, in our judges or, even more importantly, in our democratic rule of law. That's what today is about. This confidence has been violated and whether it can be regained is the question. Because how can you resign and therefore acknowledge your mistakes, but stay as a list leader and prime minister again? So you're actually saying that you didn't do anything wrong and that you can just go on happy. I will not praise Asscher often, but in this case at least he was consistent. He acknowledged his mistakes and drew the ultimate conclusion. Our outgoing Prime Minister is shrugging his shoulders. In fact, his artificial resignation is not worth anything and is about the same as sending black-painted files. A theatrical gesture. Pretending to do something for the citizen, but actually keeping the cards close to the chest and not making any knees. I don't feel directly responsible, the Prime Minister said. That's the Ruttedoctrine: ducking for responsibility. The whole system has failed. But that's his system. In the words of Prime Minister Rutte himself: "The rule of law must protect citizens from an omnipotent government, and that has gone horribly wrong here." But all this time, he was Prime Minister. The failure of the rule of law system took place under its responsibility. The fact that he is now giving the impression that he is purely and simply taking up his formal responsibility, but that there is nothing to blame for him personally in this whole affair, is an incorrect representation of things. It was not for nothing that the Prime Minister was heard under oath by the parliamentary interrogation committee; that was because, under his direct leadership and responsibility, that special approach to fraud was used in 2013. Rutte personally set up the Ministerial Committee on Fraud Approach, in which several ministries made plans to tackle alleged fraud. It was his cabinet that presented an action plan at the end of 2013 that led to this affair. The system, which has failed, is not something from before Mark Rutte acted as Prime Minister in 2010. It's not something that worked outside of him. It's his system. The Prime Minister is directly responsible for the failure of the rule of law as he himself admits, but he does not take responsibility. He acts like he's stepping down, but in fact, he just sits around. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we cannot change the mistakes that have been made in this supplementing affair. Of course, we can compensate the victims well and subitely. That must be done, and we will see to it that the coming period is well settled, but the emotional damage and the damage to confidence are probably no longer possible. The lessons we have to learn from this for the future are tough. In the future there should be no room for this kind of excessive government abuse, but this debate is not only about the future of the Demissionary Cabinet and the government, but also about the future of the rule of law. This future is highly dependent on citizens' trust in the rule of law and in government. The citizens must be able to resist an increasingly powerful bureaucratic monster, an increasingly large government with citizens who seem to have less and less resources at their disposal to arm themselves against it. A key element in this is the provision of information to parliament and society. This provision of information is the second factor in the Ruttedoctrine.. has been incomplete over the past ten years. It's not the first time that's happened. Under Rutte, that's what happened to countless files. Just think of Hawija and the resignation of Secretary of State Harbers for covering up the crime figures associated with asylum seekers. Think of the political trial against Geert Wilders, which was started and of which we still do not have the bottom stone. Should it later become apparent that the Prime Minister has been actively involved in this matter, and that is the absurd thing to see now, perhaps nobody in the Netherlands will be surprised. That's where we ended up. The Prime Minister's flag flight may seem politically devious, but it is actually yet another proof that the Prime Minister does not take responsibility. Many of his disciples had to leave the scene earlier in order to keep the Prime Minister out of the wind. Besides the aforementioned Mark Harbers it is a considerable parade: Ivo Opstelten and Fred Teeven because of the ticketing affair, Ard van der Steur because of the incorrect information of the Chamber, Jeanine Hennis because of the sending of soldiers with defective material, Halbe Zijlstra because of the lying about his visit in the Dasha to Putin and finally this week Eric Wiebes. He was responsible for abolishing the VAR declaration, which madezzp'ers and their clients de facto outlawed and for the debacle with the gas extraction in Groningen which still does not compensate Groningers. He is also a spiritual father of the dramatic organization of the Tax Administration, which we are dealing with now. Our Prime Minister indicated that Wiebes had made his own assessment and that he respected it. Again an anti-sticking movement of someone who doesn't take responsibility. Eric Wiebes is the last pawn sacrifice in a failed king's gambit to protect the king. But there are actually no more pawns that can be credible. The attack is directed at the king himself. The king has indicated that he is going to fall over, but he is doing so with his last sham. I hope that the people of the Netherlands will see through that and that on 17 March this hide-and-seek trick will be dealt with and play this peek-a-boo with democracy. A lot of resignation, but still stay put again. Mr. Chairman. Making a mistake is human. However, this Prime Minister and his ministers leave behind a trail of destruction, in which two things continue to return: incomplete information, which is strictly undermining democracy, and taking responsibility, which is nothing but symbolic politics a few weeks before the elections, but in which they simply remain a candidate. You can't laugh at things like that. You can't think: in a few weeks this will be over. This is about the heart of democracy. The heart of democracy is affected, because it is ultimately about trust; trust from the parliament towards the government and trust from the citizen towards the government. In short, this trust has been systematically violated and this can only be regained if those responsible, like Lodewijk Asscher, take real responsibility for their mistakes. Mark Rutte, do as Asscher: restore the rule of law and step back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u221	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Van Dam committee. Madam President. Let the fall of Rutte III be a moment of reflection in many ways. For us, as members of the House of Representatives, there are lessons to learn. Despite the opposition, colleagues Leijten, Azarkan and Omtzigt got the bottom stone above, by biting themselves and not letting go. That is the essential work of Parliament: to control the cabinet. What Mr Omtzig said today was striking, impressive and correct. There are also lessons to be learned for the Council of State. The rule of law shook on its foundations. If the victims of the premium affair objected to the Council of State, they were wrong. It was only in 2019 that the Council of State stated that the principle of proportionality was applicable. The basic principles of our case law have been violated. Justice is the last straw in injustice. The Department of Administrative Law has announced an internal inquiry into whether the rulings were more disproportionate, but I think we should organise such an investigation independently. Madam President. How come this Prime Minister always blames others and cleans up the mess? Under his reign, even the king had to apologize. Not only the rule of law, but also the monarchy shook on its foundations. You can be in front of or against the royal house. We can have a debate about it. But what this prime minister let happen is below all levels. Looking back, a dark image looms on it. Unfortunately, the supplemental affair isn't on its own. In addition, we know the earthquake damage in Groningen and the compensation that does not come from the ground, and the reclassifications against the will of residents; I mention the citizens of the former municipality of Haren, who resist with their hands and teeth. Now the inhabitants of the municipality of Schaijk are turned over again. Then there's child care, where innocent children are locked up. It's all really out of proportion. What about the rent and care allowance and the other public authorities? Are people branded as fraudsters without any mention of it? All these gaping wounds have one thing in common: the Rutte cabinet makes victims dangle distraught. I am in favour of an 'clean ship operation', an independent committee, which takes stock of the suffering caused by the Rutte cabinet and makes proposals to repair the damage. In connection with this, I call the arrogance of power. How do you stand in life when you run the country for ten years? Power must never be taken for granted. In a democracy, the will of the majority is self-evident. This cabinet abolishes the consultative referendum. As one of the few countries in Europe, we no longer have an emergency valve. The power of the top officials is great, too great. The civil servants remain with our system, even if a new cabinet gets a different color. Sometimes they get fired. Because of the supplemental affair, a top official left. He was immediately nominated for a high position at the municipality of The Hague. How does this cabinet deal with top officials who have made demonstrable mistakes? What will happen to the other top officials who have dropped grossly into the premium affair? It is often claimed that officials should do what the political leadership tells them to do. Is this happening? Or are they right to withhold the information from their minister? The surcharge affair shows that an in-depth investigation is needed into the arrogance of power. In doing so, it makes sense to consider a possible maximum expiry date for a prime minister and the sustainability of senior officials. The resignation places my motion to hold the elections in the summer in a new light. I filed her because experts expect a peak of the British mutation in March. RIVM announced this afternoon that we are stuck with the measures until April. So 17 March is irresponsible. A outgoing cabinet must, of course, be replaced as soon as possible. That is why I would like it to remain on 17 March, but that is irresponsible. Summer is by far the safest season in the virus pandemic. It is also the earliest possible time for the elections. Under no circumstances can it be later. In that respect, I have changed my motion. I therefore urge the House to vote in favour of this motion tomorrow. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Unfamiliar injustice. People, a lot of ordinary innocent people, have been brutally chased. Many tens of thousands of parents had no chance of a ruthless government that robbed them of everything, of everything they loved and loved. Mr. Chairman. The government should serve the citizens, but nothing has turned out to be less true, with serious consequences for the people, I repeat, completely innocent people. Shame, loneliness, broken marriages, stress and misery caused loss of health and even of joy in life. It took care of children who grew up in deep poverty and felt unsafe because their parents felt unsafe. It caused deep traumas in human lives that leave deep traces and can never be made up for, no matter how much you compensate as a government. A carefree childhood for your children, where breakfast is available every morning, there is money for a warm coat, good shoes, swimming lessons and a beautiful birthday gift? They grew up in deep poverty. Such a thing cannot be returned and it cannot be repeated. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet resigned symbolically a few days before the debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee was scheduled. That is in The Hague, and this cabinet knows very well, not so chic. That's not the way it should be and not the way it should be. You're supposed to have the debate with the Chamber first. You should not take the sting out of the debate to prevent further damage to the dolls just before the elections. Because that is what is happening here: a flight forward now that there is really no other way, just before the debate, just two months before the elections. In this respect, the cabinet is stylish, because nothing in this file has gone as it should have been or as it should have been. The years of cover-up, also known as the impenetrable lame layer for one or the absence of the light switch for the other, is a chain of looking away, running behaviour and of finding solutions to abuses when it really is no longer possible. That only happens when the ugly truth is brought to light slowly and slowly, with great difficulty by investigative journalists, lawyers or tireless, courageous MPs; year in, year out. Mr. Chairman. A report from a committee of inquiry was needed before this cabinet came forward with a first gesture for all the victims who are now in the picture. Five days after that report appeared, there was suddenly €30,000 for the parents; that is, perhaps. One of the extracurriculars responded somewhat to the announcement when I spoke to her shortly after the publication of the media report. She said, "See first, then believe," they're gonna take it away from me again. And how gruesome: the Tax Administration was so insensitive to announce not much later that he would immediately claim this amount from the parents with an outstanding tax debt, as the first pending creditor of a long line of creditors. Many parents and their children still suffer from this and nightmares. The IRS hasn't changed. The system hasn't changed. If today we go home alone with a missionary cabinet and some empty promises about recovery and about perhaps going on the kicks of a surcharge system, then nothing will be resolved. Very little has been solved. How will the injustice be corrected? How can the rule of law be restored, including the valuable checks-and-balances? When is total openness given? From now on? And not with words, but with deeds, because the answers to Pieter Ommzigt's questions, which everyone has been able to read today with increasing dismay, are short, but speak volumes. Nothing's changed. And promises alone must not be satisfied. Mr. Chairman. To my mind, the cabinet is now only taking a symbolic step to go ahead with the election with a so-called clean slate, to continue in Rutte IV to violate Article 68 of the Constitution and to cover up injustice. Because we don't know everything yet, and that's my biggest frustration. The bottom stone isn't up yet. We are still receiving new information through Wob requests, documents that the committee has not received. There are still a number of studies in progress, including on ethnic profiling, the results of which will be announced after the elections. And there's a lot more wrong. There is much more injustice, much more suffering, at other fees, in the welfare, through abuses at the UWV. We've got to open that cesspool. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber must also look at itself; I very much agree with that. The crackdown on fraud is really something that the various parties and their individual MPs must charge themselves. Serious consideration must be given to the consequences of group discipline and to the coalition constraint. The Chamber must control the government. That only fits in with total independence. The Constitution says that Members of Parliament are independent and without burden. And yes, that means putting the general interest, the interest of the people in society, in the interests of the parties. Whether you are in the opposition or in the coalition, when asking questions, when asking questions, when voting, you should never let yourself as a Member of Parliament be obstructed or obstructed, not by the party, not by the coalition, not by the rulers. No one. Mr. Chairman. This debate is just the beginning. Of course, I wholeheartedly support the proposal for a parliamentary survey. If it is up to me, before the election recess, we are still having a real debate on the content of the report, with unlimited speaking time, Mr President. I will make an application for this tomorrow at the organisation of work. Anyone who wishes to join us is welcome. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u225	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr President, thank you. I too would like to begin by expressing my great admiration and respect for the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Dam, but also towards the Members of Parliament, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Azarkan and, of course, Mr Leijten, who, indeed, have worked tirelessly on this subject in recent weeks, months and years. I would also like to say that every day we talk about the subject, we realize what a huge impact it has on people's lives: from parents, but indeed from tens of thousands of children. Their lives have changed completely, in many cases in hell. I was recently in a few conversations that Mrs Van Huffelen is making very regularly in all kinds of cities and in all kinds of places. I was allowed to join a few of them. There have been other contacts. It's really horrible. That is why I think it is good that we are discussing this in detail today and that we are also looking at how to prevent it. Mr President, I must do one administrative thing at the beginning, if I may. This is necessary under national law, namely the sharing of a finding with the Chamber. I have to make that observation. It's completely separate from the childcare allowance committee. That is the following: from the contributions of the spokesmen of the political groups who spoke directly or indirectly about this in the first term, I find that the Chamber does not wish to advance the forthcoming regular elections, but rather to hold elections on 17 March. If the First Chamber adopted the relevant bill, it would be 15, 16 or 17 March. This will be the basis of the government's determination of the date for the dissolution of the House of Representatives. This decision to hold the elections on 17 March, 15, 16 and 17 March respectively, will be taken in the near future. I have to do that, because the elections could also be strictly formalised until earlier in March. That is quite impossible, by the way, but we must formally do so. That's a little paperwork. In the end, the cabinet must also propose to dissolve the Chamber. So I suppose it's true that the elections will take place as planned for you as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a second point, on the distribution. Questions have been asked to me, including about the speed of compensation and about ethnic profiling and discrimination in the Tax Administration. Of course you can ask me about that, but in principle they will be dealt with by Alexandra van Huffelen, the Secretary of State, who also manages those files. But if any questions are asked to me, I will, of course, try to answer them as best I can. In my answer I would first like to answer a few general questions. I shall then turn to the questions that have been raised about the provision of information. Then I will answer a whole series of other more general questions, state-of-the-art questions, etc. But before I do that, I would first like to say something about my role and the lessons that I, of course, draw from this dossier. First of all, just as straight forward about my role. Of course, I'm always directly responsible for everything that happens. I can never walk away from that. I won't run away from that either. I'm also directly involved from the moment we knew how intense it was. That is, as you know, since the summer of 2019. I'm not running away from it. I don't want to run away from it either. I want that out here. It's horrible. I also feel very responsible for making the settlement a success, but also for drawing lessons and for making all the things that we have put in the letter possible towards the future. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to share a number of lessons with you in this context. I have also shared a few of them in committee before, but I would like to add a number of additional reflections, also following what many Members of Parliament have done here tonight. Firstly, I too have paid too little attention to the implementation. For too long, it has been a closing point of policy and of political will. Secondly, we have spent far too long, including myself, trying to find alternatives to the supplement system. That too has already been noted. But these are two more general political observations. It will be much more personal if I say something to you about the fraud approach. It's true that I... I certainly don't run away from that. If I'm president of a club, I'm chairman, too. I am chairman of all the sub-committees and all the ministerial committees. I am also chairman of the Ministerial Committee on the fight against fraud. I realize that with the emphasis over the period 2013-2014, and beyond, but certainly in the period that that committee functioned... If you do that, if you are doing so, if there is so much attention to it politically and also from the cabinet, the risk may exist, unintentionally and unwelcomely, that this will have consequences for the execution. People think maybe they can do things they can't do. That's never meant to happen. That's never something we wanted. But it might have felt that way. I have always tried to keep in mind that the fight against fraud is necessary for the support of social security, but that it must never be at the expense of the quality of the services we provide as a government to the people in the Netherlands. That balance must always be there. Mr. Chairman. A fourth lesson is to manage expectations, whether it is about combating fraud or the speed of payment of the surcharges. Always is a risk that, also because of the huge injustice that is felt, we think and feel that we may be able to achieve something, so you make promises or make agreements with each other, and also brings them out, which are seen as a hard obligation to achieve, which people who have already been very badly affected are going to stick to, while in practice they are not feasible. In 2020, for example, it just turned out to take a lot more time to get the whole settlement of the supplement drama well on track, to do it thoroughly and so on. Mr. Chairman. The fifth lesson I want to share is indeed about the provision of information. Whether it was Cook or Balkenende, or whether it was me: I certainly don't run away from that. I have always worked with the assumption that there is consensus on Article 11 of the Public Administration Act, which is also decisive in all kinds of documents, including Cabinets for me, for how we interpret Article 68 Constitution. This has to do with room for personal policy views of officials. I've always worked within that framework. At the same time, in recent years, I have seen increasing irritation among Members of Parliament and journalists about the fact that this exception exists. I myself have noticed that, for example, if you publish all the pieces that are discussed in the Catshuis with regard to the approach to corona immediately, it works perfectly well, that they become part of the public debate and that no crazy things happen when you do that without pointing out them all exactly, explaining what decisions have been taken. I would also like to say that I have wondered how we can work even more closely within General Affairs. I checked first to see if we don't do things that other departments do. I don't think that's true, but I'm gonna get on with that. But then when it comes to laying down permanent rulers, whether in recent years they were talking about KLM or in the Catshuis about corona, and so there are other examples. This is a question of explaining rulers who are of the nature of their regular activities. I'm gonna take care of it as soon as possible. We have to settle it all. This also applies to the pentagon, which has never been reported in the past. So, for example, pentagons, KLM transfer, consultation about corona in the Catshuis. We'll take that... I also think that this is appropriate to the letter we sent, in which we say radically: we renounce our interpretation of Article 11, and therefore Article 68 Constitution, on personal policy concepts. This brings with it all kinds of practical implications, which we are still going to talk about today. In my view, it is also part of this that we should start to record more when it comes to explaining the rulers. Mr President, I see that a lot of Members of Parliament want to say something, but I would like to say one more sentence to Mr Omtzigt about something that is terribly troubling him. I'm gonna do that right now, if he'll let me. It's about pieces about CAF that he asked for and an email that was then sent. That was in the files, too. I also saw that it was tweeted by Pieter Klein, and I also think by Mr Omtzigt et cetera. I've got it all figured out. I know that's really bothering him, so I'd like to get rid of that right away. There is an email from Finance dated 20 March 2019 from the POK file, stating that the Legal Affairs Directorate will make a final check with General Affairs on the current policy regarding sharing the costs of the country's lawyer and maintaining the argument not to provide documents in other CAF cases. That's the text from the e-mail. I've checked it all out now. One day later, on 21 March, an official of the Legal Affairs Directorate of Finance sent an e-mail to the lawyers of all departments, including General Affairs. In that e-mail, Finance asks for a check on the view that current procedures are not notified when it comes to the costs of the national attorney. This was in response to a question put by Mr Omtzigt at the time. The e-mail states that the view in the view of Finance is in line with the line of other departments, but that is what Finance wants to check. At the end of a procedure, Finance can name the total cost of the national attorney, according to this e-mail. So the email and the check from Finance is not about sharing documents in other CAF cases. That has nothing to do with General Affairs. In fact, at that moment was precisely the drama that only in the summer of 2019 we knew what was going on. Moreover, the General Affairs Adviser in question did not reply to that e-mail either. Again, that e-mail was not about the CAF cases; it was only about whether you should disclose the costs of the national attorney. I wanted to say that because I know, also from previous contacts... I couldn't answer Mr Omtzigt either, because I didn't know either, but we've figured that out now. That's what I'd like to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u227	This is it as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u228	This is the introductory part, I think. Then I have a few other introductory questions. Then I come to the questions concerning information and the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u229	Fine. I see Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan, Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Jetten, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van Brenn. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u230	The Prime Minister has already said a number of things about the information that calls for a response, but I will go into that when he comes to the information block. I want to talk now about his responsibility and his involvement. That was a very clear divorce he made at the press conference on Friday. I thought that was weird. I asked him to come back to that. Is he coming back to that weird distinction he made with "I'm responsible, but I wasn't involved"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u231	In any case, I am responsible and involved, at least from the summer of 2019 onwards and, of course, when it comes to the impact of a ministerial committee on the fight against fraud, also in the period 2013-14. Not that the committee then commissioned these fraud investigations, which was all selected by the parliamentary interrogation committee, but what the effect might have been, I explained this in my question of putting so much emphasis on the fight against fraud, how that might ultimately be felt in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u232	That's good. The Prime Minister finally said: I was not only responsible, I was involved. The question asked by journalists was why you could actually come back to the next cabinet. Then you said: well, that's first of all up to the voter. I agree with that, by the way. But you also said that I can, because I was responsible, but not involved. How would you answer the question whether you could return to a cabinet again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u233	I think that this is what I think and that, in my view, the voter is about, that it is not for nothing that the whole cabinet has taken responsibility by resigning, that Eric Wiebes should not have left me, that Eric Wiebes could have stayed, but that it was his decision to resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u234	Something more precise. Again, the VVD is about who is the leader of the VVD, but it is actually more about the political and moral judgment of the Prime Minister himself, of Mark Rutte. How does he look at his own performance in this whole thing? His entire defense was built around the fact that he said he was responsible, but not involved. Now he says, "I was involved, too." Does that change the way he looks at himself, the way he is responsible in this case and the consequences he must have? Is he the one who's capable of running that whole recovery operation of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u235	No, that doesn't lead to any other conclusion. The tragedy of the whole subject, of the whole dossier, of the whole drama is that no one knew until roughly May, June 2019 whether they realized how big and extensive the problem was. That's the whole tragedy of the subject. When I say "I have direct involvement too," that's from 2019. You can blame me for indirect or direct involvement when it comes to the emphasis on the fight against fraud and how it may, indirectly, has worked out its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u236	That doesn't really give me the answer. The Prime Minister said, when it came to the question of why he was fit to continue, and he was not going to draw any further personal consequences: I was not involved. Anyway, that's up to him. If he says "there are conclusions to be drawn about my actions in 2013 and 2014 in the ministerial committee," what lessons does he draw when it comes to the fight against fraud? So what exactly is going to change in this social security legislation and the way we look at it, as of tomorrow? In the letter that has been sent, not so much news is actually announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u237	A lot's happened. The fraud law adopted under the first cabinet has, of course, been revised by Louis Asscher, as Minister for Social Affairs, with which wide-ranging social security, with broad support from the Chamber, has opted for a different approach to fraud. The whole problem was, of course, that in this subject, which is how we dealt with signals in the childcare allowance, something became clear only in the summer of 2019. That was not what we knew for a long time that if Mr. Klaver or his husband started to work a few hours less, this sometimes leads to huge refunds, because it is very large amounts of money by way of advances. But what was not known until the summer of 2019 was the hardness of the system: the fact that small administrative errors were seen as fraud and that this led to the recovery of the total amounts. This only became clear in the summer of 2019. That is the tragedy of this whole subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u238	To this day, social security in our welfare state is incredibly harsh. I'm sure that while we're sitting here talking, all of us are getting these messages from people who are now in the Participation Act or on welfare benefits. In that legislation we see that the same hardness that Rutte stood for in 2013 is still in it. When I read the election programme of the VVD, you will still see a hardness there when it comes to the fight against fraud. I'm looking for a little more insight, a little more about the mistakes that have been made and what that means in concrete terms and what needs to change. What are the changes that need to be made now, even if we look at a Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u239	First of all, what happened here at the childcare allowance should never have happened like this. Namely, that you had a system where small administrative errors were seen as fraud and led to full recovery of often very large amounts, because if income is lower and people have more children, this leads to very large benefits in the area of childcare allowances. That is at the heart of this tragedy, which has hit tens of thousands of people. Two. I remain in favour of tackling fraud. This is important for the support of our social security system. In it, the legislation was amended by the previous cabinet, because we said that it was too hard what we were doing in the fight against fraud. If you look at what is in the letter that we have sent today, about administrative law, the application of legislation and the scope for hardness and taking into account individual circumstances, you will see all kinds of moves, but we will have to work on them. That's what Bas van 't Wout is doing and he might say something about that in his part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u240	In the reply in the letter we received in response to the report, it is said in fairly general terms that this is a sloppy fraud detection, that it was done under pressure from a Chamber that wanted everything back to the last penny and that it is part of the system. But that's only half of it. There's a group, including the CAF 11, that didn't commit an offense. So he didn't commit a very small offense and then had to give everything back with retroactive effect. How does the Prime Minister look at thousands of citizens being treated in this way without being in that system? How could that happen? How does he look back on that part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u241	That's the whole drama, isn't it? There were signs, though. In 2009 and 2017 there were signs that this sort of thing happened. They haven't been arrested enough. Just before the summer of 2019, it became clear in full terms what happened here. This has led to the launching of all the actions that have ultimately led to where we are today: adapting the legislation, but also ensuring compensation, which is extremely complex. But that's exactly the whole drama. What everyone was looking at at the time was this. In 2006 it was decided to grant advance payments for the childcare allowance. When things changed in people's personal circumstances, it led to high returns. That wasn't fraud, it was just the administrative system. We tried to control this problem, for example by introducing a new supplement scheme, starting with the childcare allowance and by providing the supplement to host families and childcare companies. That's one of the systems we were looking at back then. But with that, we didn't see the real big fire. That really big fire was when people made little mistakes, this was seen as fraud. This led to full recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u242	I'm not talking about the group that made a small mistake. I think we're really failing a group of people who just didn't make a mistake. They have not at all had the opportunity to be assessed before stopping. So there's a group that was suspected in advance. Subsequently, every effort was made to ensure that this was not treated. In the debate with Mr Snel on 4 July 2019 he said: "I am out of that tunnel of denial. I can see that very big mistakes have been made here." That's when it took a long time. We are now a year and a half away and there are many victims. If a High College of State, like the Ombudsman, concluded in 2017 that of the 300 people in CAF 11, 166 have objected and that 150 have been granted and that there has therefore wrongly gone to complete cessation, then I do not see where that shot-through fraud hunt has stopped. These people just didn't get a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u243	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u244	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, So these are officials who have broken the law, the General Administrative Law. These are officials who violated the Awir. They didn't act in accordance with the law. These officials did not really want to prove themselves to representatives of the people and ministers with 'look at us hard on everyone who commits a minor offense'. No, this is where innocent people got caught. These people didn't run a red light. How does the Prime Minister view that? In this way, whole groups of citizens have been wrongly classed as fraudsters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u245	That's terrible. One of the things Hoekstra and I heard in Rijswijk after that was that in conversations it is one of the most important things for people, apart from the financial compensation, to get rid of the stigma that they are fraudsters. People are incredible, up to their fibers, offended by that stigma "you're a fraud" when they're not. Also, the people who had perhaps once signed in the wrong box and were therefore considered as frauders were not frauders. There must have been real fraud, but that is very small percentages. That's been remembered a few times today. That is extremely serious. Mr Azarkan seems to be referring to what that means in criminal terms, but we have just had a judge's ruling on this in a case that was in the Tax Administration, so I really want to stay away from it. I would like to point out here that this should never have happened like this. And I would like to point out here that we must do everything we can, with each other as Chamber and Cabinet, to prevent that from happening in the future. People shouldn't end up in the wheels of the State with such a terrible impact on their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u246	Another question. The Prime Minister was President of the Ministerial Commission Approach Fraud. Is it now clear what role nationality has played in considering that you were probably a fraud? Is that clear to the full?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u247	Van Huffelen will go into that in a moment. I can say something about that in a moment, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u248	That's good. Then Mr Wilders, after the microphone has been cleaned. You're all gonna get your own towel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u249	I think it's sad anyway. The Prime Minister dives every time and moves everything away. He says, "I'm responsible, but I didn't know." Yeah, the party's about the list leadership. Yeah, the voters will decide how they feel about this. Why move something away every time, when the whole of the Netherlands knows that you have been Prime Minister for ten years and that you have been responsible for government policy for ten years. Of course, ministers are responsible, but you are the only constant in that tower for ten years. From the chairman of that fraud committee to the $30,000 that everyone gets, you were with everything. And then you are the one who is not willing and apparently unable to say: am I the man to continue in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u250	Mr Wilders is absolutely right: I am Prime Minister for more than ten years. And when I look back at the last ten years, there's a lot I'm proud of. There is absolutely also the necessary that could have been done better and there are a few things that I am ashamed of, blemishes on those ten years. I refer to the slow resolution of the earthquakes in Groningen. And the second is this file. That's a stain on those last ten years. But what I am not doing here is that I really do not agree with Mr Wilders here is giving the impression that the Netherlands has become a sort of waste case in the last ten years, a basket case. That's not true. The Netherlands stands for it as a country. I'm not saying that's because of me. This is due to 17 million Dutch people who helped the country through the crisis at the beginning of this decade, in the first few years also with the support of Mr Wilders. After that, when things got better, they also took the opportunities offered by the economy and our society. As a result, we, as one of the few in Europe, are currently able to invest very heavily in support packages for our businesses, something that cannot be achieved in southern Europe. So there's a lot I'm proud of, too. I am not going to let everything that the Netherlands has achieved over the last ten years go to the big litter. But it is absolutely true that Mr Wilders is right when he says that I am doing this for ten years. And yes, in ten years a few things have gone very wrong and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u251	But in those ten years, about five, six, seven ministers of your party resigned last week, Mr Wiebes, and you are still there. We are talking about one of the greatest shames of the last ten years. What are these people thinking at home? Those people who after ten years of Rutte policy... At least you were Prime Minister for ten years. Your people and yourself have made sure that these people have been in the mess for ten years, at least for the last few years. They've been criminalized as innocents. They lost their house. They've lost their marriage. They're in debt here and then they see a minister resign and then they don't see that $30,000 show up and then they see what I know what's going on. There's one thing they say... that Rutte's taken a good look at it. That Rutte stays in place and in a few months, when the elections have been, then... He has resigned but in a few months that doll will just come back and then he will be back in the House of Representatives or perhaps in the Tower again. Then nothing has changed for you. Under your policy, tens of thousands of lives have been destroyed! No money! Criminal! They didn't get anything from anyone. They could borrow from their families, and you did. The Chamber was misinformed under your direction by your cabinet. We've been lied to. Your members of the Cabinet and the officials have screwed things up. And those people paid a price for that. And what will we see in March, April, May, June? Then we see that Mr. Rutte is the only one coming back. How do you think people at home see that? They're thinking, "What kind of country is this?" We don't have any money. Ministers are resigning, and this Rutte, who was all responsible for this, who was Prime Minister for at least ten years, is sitting there again. That's not taking responsibility, is it? People don't understand that, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u252	The cabinet has resigned. The cabinet has taken the ultimate political consequence. Last Friday, because of the extremely serious nature of this matter and in the belief that there is a broad majority here in the Chamber to continue to govern effectively in the field of the fight against corona and to settle the terrible dossier in that sense, it decided to resign collectively. The cabinet is a missionary. It's not like nothing happened. The cabinet has quit. We've resigned. The cabinet has become a missionary. We have taken the ultimate political consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u253	Sure. Which, if we can believe the media, you didn't even want to start last week. When the report came out around Christmas, you didn't even think it was necessary. Again, if we can believe the media, it was Mark Rutte who didn't want it and didn't think it was necessary for the cabinet to resign. Then don't come up with big words like "we stepped down." Even if so, even if so, Madam President, what is the value of resigning yourself? I am not talking about Mr Wiebes. He's at home watching TV right now. I give him all the best, but what is the value of resigning for you now that you would have resigned in a month or two months? After the resignation of the cabinet in two or three months, you may just be back in the Tower or somewhere in politics. People at home don't understand that, do they? Then you have laundered your failure a little bit by resigning, but after the election you will just be back in your own seat. Then people think, "What's that resignation worth?" Rutte is still in the Tower or he's still in a ministry or he's still in the House of Representatives. That's not taking responsibility for all those people who have suffered so much pain, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u254	Mr. Chairman. Erik Wiebes didn't have to resign. He's decided to do that. He himself said: I do; I quit. The cabinet as a whole has become a missionary. It has taken the ultimate political consequence. And yes, there was discussion in the cabinet about that, not whether this dossier and the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee were in itself not so serious that it gave every reason to resign, but whether we were able to continue to effectively lead the fight against corona. That belief has grown over the past two weeks, so that both could: both resign and remain effective at the fight against corona, because we are dealing with a pandemic and a great danger to our public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u255	Really... I understand that it's painful, but the Prime Minister doesn't go into my most important comment for the third time. I'm not just talking about the resignation of the cabinet. I'm talking about... and he just refuses to answer that, because that means, knowing the Prime Minister, he's in trouble. I have told you that if you resign two months before you would resign in any case, but will soon return as a Member of Parliament, as a minister, perhaps we hope not to be Prime Minister, all people at home will think: "For that man it has had no consequence whatsoever. He has, eight weeks earlier than he had planned and should have been, become a missionary, but in a moment he is either back in the Tower or back in politics! We've lost everything we've got." We as MPs have been totally lied to and fooled by you and your people. Your cabinet has offended the Chamber. [[Sentence could not be parsed: U heeft de rechtsstaat opzijgezet.]] You raped democracy by not giving the Chamber proper answers, by saying to Mr Omtzigt, when he asked if people were bothered by not getting a supplement, no, we didn't notice. You fooled everyone and almost bankrupted the people at home, even worse than bankrupted them. And what do they see? That Mark Rutte resigns two months earlier than he should have done in the first place and then maybe just goes back to politics. With an apple, smiling on the bike, to everyone: hello, hello, here I am, Mark. That's impossible, isn't it? What should people at home think about that? Madam President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister through you: think about it. If you don't answer me three times, be my guest. I mean, I've given up hope that you have any kind of self-reflection. But think about it if it's okay that in two months' time you're gonna get away with it, just a month earlier, you're just gonna be back in the Tower. What are the people and we as MPs supposed to think? Maybe you should just quit. You don't want to hear that, and you don't want to hear that. Probably getting another you-bowl back. But that is what people do not understand: that ministers resign, that people are in the mess and that you will just come back as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u256	I'm here as Prime Minister, and in that role, you control me very closely. You're right to do that. This has also led to the ultimate political consequence: the resignation of the entire cabinet. But I'm not here at the party congress. Mr Wilders is not a member of my party either. Nor do we stand here as list leaders in a debate for the campaign. The question of whether I can be a list leader, which he implicitly asks for, is not up to parliament, but to my party. And if that's a good idea, the voter ultimately decides. But I repeat, this cabinet has drawn the ultimate political consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u257	Indeed, as we know from the Prime Minister, it is moving in all directions. Where he did say in the press conference 'I have no direct involvement and no direct responsibility', he now comes back to that in this debate, because of course he does. I think it's a good thing he acknowledges that, too. I think the question is quite right to ask to what extent it is still credible to put yourself forward to solve all these problems that have been caused by yourself. I would like to put a very specific question to the Prime Minister. Because it has already been mentioned: he was, of course, chairman of that ministerial committee in 2013. In 2019 we got Donner. People's reclaims have just continued. Then in January 2020 we had the conversation with the parents, where even a tear was shed, so from that moment on the Prime Minister was aware of everything. Mr. Chairman. Then we arrive at February 2020. In the entire folder of pieces we got last night, we also found this. It states that in February 2020, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, it was decided that a group of as many as 23,000 affected parents should be excluded from compensation. My question to the Prime Minister is: how is it possible? Then you can't hide behind: I didn't know. Then you've talked to people yourself about who it is, then you've shed a tear, and a month later you've shed a month! You say: yes, we have to limit the precedent. That means in normal Dutch: we have to keep the group as small as possible. Those 23,000 people we know are dying, they're not getting anything. Why, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u258	The full extent, the overall coverage of this drama, has only become apparent in the course of 2020. In 2019 we knew that this was about large numbers. The first Donner Committee report talks about this. The second report by the Donner Commission, from March 2020, shows that the drama is much greater. Every time we were confronted with the fact that the problem was much bigger than we thought, we decided to compensate on a much larger scale. That was ultimately until the decisions we took after March 2020. We sat there conscientiously and watched: what do we know now and what is appropriate? That's what this meeting's about. That is an intermediate position when we do not have the overall picture. We have the overall picture since just complete. You can also see it in the set of questions and the conversation that Hoekstra and I have had with the Donner Committee. In that we asked: can't you go back and do other things wider? I'm not saying that to be tough about this, but those were all attempts to do it as fair as possible. But it is only from March 2020 that you will see that this whole issue, this whole drama, is reaching an even bigger group. On this basis, we have shaped the compensation arrangements, together with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u259	I'm sorry, but this is just not true. The piece that we received last night, I repeat, simply says: February 2020. The number of 23,000 affected parents is just in this play. A month before that, the Prime Minister himself spoke to the parents. So he was aware of the impact. He was aware of how the government destroyed people's lives. In February he was informed that proposal is simply made here "a clean slate to look back at the future" for 23,000 people. That's what's on top of it; how harsh is that? Nevertheless, the Prime Minister does not at that time decide to acknowledge his mistakes and give them back their own money. Why is that, Prime Minister? I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u260	That's what happened after that. At that point, we didn't know everything. What we did at that time, including at that meeting, is based on the information we had looked at what is reasonable. In the months following, this arrangement has been extended and extended, also in consultation with the Chamber and on the basis of the latest insights we had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u261	There's something else in the note we got. But suppose we continue on the Prime Minister's path: "What is reasonable? Each time it is a bit expanded." That's bad, isn't it? If you've been face-to-face with the parents, if you've heard the stories in January 2020, more than a year ago, how can you look at them that way? Then you should think: something has gone horribly wrong here; we apologize to those people and the Chamber, who we lied to you about it? Leijten and Omtzigt, who asked for it and did not receive the answer they should have received, have been mentioned several times. Then you'd have to think "we'd get everything out of the closet to correct what's wronged those people" instead of remarks like: limit the precedent? Isn't that contrary to the fact that something has gone horribly wrong? How can it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u262	No. At that time, this was the state of play of the February 2020 information. This is a group of people sitting together trying conscientiously to ensure that, without money playing a role, there could be maximum compensation. In the months after that we have come to the conclusion that it had to be even more generous. We've talked a lot about that with you, the Chamber. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u263	It just doesn't add up. Think of the people with the high award, the high risk. I just mentioned that in my contribution. That group was just known to the IRS. That was a group the tax authorities themselves invented. That is the group mentioned by the Prime Minister in his introduction. That is the most vulnerable group: single parents with multiple children and low income. Those are the people who received the most childcare allowance, and in whom the tax authorities were the easiest to reach the targets by taking a look at them. That group was in the picture, because the Tax Administration had invented that policy itself. The IRS had invented: we're gonna take care of that group, because that's where we can get the most. How can the Prime Minister continue to repeat here today that there was no picture of how large that group was? That group was definitely in the picture. In fact, it was invented by the IRS itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u264	There were a number of questions at that time, in February 2020. How big is the group? How much has everyone been affected within that group? And what about retroactivity, five years or more back? We had to think about all these points, also on the basis of Mr Donner's first report and on the basis of Mr Donner's second report, which, I say, was published in March 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u265	Tomorrow, a year ago, the Prime Minister spoke with duped parents. Mrs Marijnissen has already spoken about this. He apologized then. Let me speak for myself, but I think that this was also a sign for those parents that, from that moment on, the Prime Minister himself, personally, was going to deal with this matter and that he would personally see to it that justice would be done. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he did in that year. I have to say, moreover, with Mrs Marijnissen, that very little has happened in that year. What has the Prime Minister himself, personally, done to ensure that those excuses would also be worth something to those parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u266	Two State Secretarys were appointed in January, February 2020. One for the normal duties of the Tax Administration and another, Mrs Van Huffelen, for Fees, with the particular responsibility to deal with compensation. This has been discussed regularly in the cabinet since then and worked very hard by a whole group of people. That was extremely complex, because all matters had to be mapped out. What are the individual situations? What about other debts? What about the private situation? Et cetera, et cetera. It's been worked out incredibly hard. As you know, we decided in December last year, on the proposal of Alexandra van Huffelen, to speed things up; she will say a little more about that. That's the €30,000 scheme, so that you can compensate for a piece of the problem sooner and faster, just because it's so complex. So think of the appointment of good people, a good structure, the fact that it has been discussed regularly in the Cabinet, the full support of these State Secretarys and my full confidence in these two State Secretarys as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u267	Of course, I also asked what the Prime Minister personally did. A year of hard work has been done, but I would also like to know why the acceleration of €30,000 was only paid out when Christmas came into sight and political problems for the cabinet came into sight. Of course, that acceleration could have happened much earlier. If those excuses meant something, it should have been material for those people. It's been promised to them now. Many of them haven't gotten it yet. It would be settled against the debts until so much noise was made about it that, thank God, that wouldn't happen. So again my question: what were those excuses worth, those 365 days in that year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u268	Those excuses have been worth the following. Firstly, Hoekstra and I have said: we will not let this go. We didn't. We have made good appointments, for people who can handle this and who are working terribly hard on it with a whole group of civil servants. One of the two Secretary of State is working on this in particular. But also the recognition that it is extremely complex. Because if you gave people the money at once, it would all disappear into debts that were already there and people couldn't build a new life. So all these aspects had to be mapped out. But there was also the frustration that Chamber and Cabinet felt about it being so complex that it took longer for people to actually see money. That has ultimately led to the knot being cut before Christmas, namely that there would be an acceleration in that benefit, recognizing that there are people who need to get more and that there are people who may eventually be entitled to less, but may then keep the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u269	The Prime Minister's response was promising. Before going after the content blocks, he first brought a piece of reflection along the line of five points he mentioned in his introduction. But I have been listening to that for a while and also to his response to a number of interruptions, and then I get the feeling that Mr Rutte feels that it has happened to him a little in recent years, rather than being a co-cause of all this misery. I'd like to challenge him anyway. He just said: from 2019 I was directly involved and perhaps indirectly responsible for that. But with that, Mr Rutte denies his role as Secretary of State, his role as the leader of the country's largest party and his role as Prime Minister of three Cabinets in which this misery could have arisen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u270	No, I don't deny any role, but it's not like in one of those functions I or anyone else has given political orders to this very hard approach, leading to "refunding everything in case of minor mistakes." The full reality of this has only become us all in the summer of 2019. If there's something tragic in the entire file, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u271	It is also a good thing that no one has deliberately commissioned this tough approach of the parents. That would be the whole world upside down. It was, of course, brought about by debates here in the Chamber, by policies that have been formulated, by laws that have been passed, by the implementation that has gone wrong on a number of points. But I thought about that in my first term, and so have many others. That also comes from that tough, harsh language, that orchestra that yelled "harder, louder, louder" every time and we were all chasing after it. Mr Rutte even admitted to the interrogation committee that that tone and those words in the anti-fraud committee he was chairman of really led people to think in the execution: this is what politics wants. Does Mr Rutte recognise that he has been co-responsible for this for many years, not from 2019 on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u272	I have said that it may be unintentional that people in the implementation, if there is so much attention to the fight against fraud, have had the feeling that they were entitled to go far beyond what was desired at the time. The fight against fraud as such, I insist, is important for the support of our social security system. Without me trying to beat myself up here: in the period when I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs, between 2002 and 2004, we converted the whole system of assistance. Not only as a means of providing income, but also as a shield for the weak who cannot provide their own income, and primarily aimed at helping people who are still able to work, with broad support in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u273	Those were the intentions. I understand that they must have been good at the time. But the Prime Minister also says here: this has had an effect unintentionally. That unintended effect is that thousands of Dutch people have been ground for years in a system in which they have been unjustly designated as fraudsters. I do not need the reflection of the party leader, the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister, but simply the reflection of the man Mark Rutte. What feeling does it make him feel that thousands of Dutch people have been crushed in this way for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u274	Mr Jetten is now making a kind of direct link between the ministerial committee and that this happened, and I am not making it. Sorry, I want to take a lot of responsibility, but it's not like we've been ordered to do this. You can also determine that when you read the reports. I've been watching it all. That was never meant to happen. What that ministerial committee did at that time was to give substance to the policy of the previous cabinet to further improve the fight against fraud. What I said to the committee is that if there is so much attention to the fight against fraud, in the Chamber, in the cabinet, also by such a committee that could have led unintentionally. It's not like I'm suggesting a direct link here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u275	Then we will be back at last Friday, at the words used by the Prime Minister at the press conference and also just at the beginning of this debate. He actually says that it happened to us in part, and what I feel as a human being is ultimately indirect responsibility. That's no more than five feet of responsibility. It would be really good for the restoration of confidence if the Prime Minister could go a step further in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u276	No, I feel directly responsible for everything that doesn't go well in a cabinet. In addition, it is simply the case that from the summer of 2019 there will also be a direct commitment to try to manage things in the right direction as foreman of the coalition and of the cabinet. I'm not running away from that; that's my responsibility. If things don't go well, you're gonna have to call me on that, too. Only, what I cannot take on is a kind of direct link between the ministerial committee and the fact that things have gone so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u277	I have Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Segers. Members of parliament who walk around the room must also wear a mouth cap, I say. Mr. Omtzigt. No, no. I saw a couple of MPs with motions and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u278	Ah, fine. I should like to begin with the findings of the Van Dam report. The rule of law is at stake, the government has informed the Chamber immemorially, incorrectly and incompletely and that repeated, and openness, completeness and transparency were not the guiding principles towards the Chamber, not towards the press and not when compiling files before the courts. My first question was: does the government take these observations or does it withdraw them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u279	No, I'll take them over, but I'll add one nuance when Mr Omtzig quotes them so, because I don't share the POK's finding that the incomplete or incorrect information of the House of Representatives is motivated by political reasons. That's the only nuance I put in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u280	Okay, not for political reasons. Thank you for having them taken over, because that is clear. Then we will come back to what that means for not informing the courts in particular properly. It is up to us what we think of not informing the Chamber properly. Then the Prime Minister promises better information and then I get "see the answer to question 8" as the central answer. My question to the Prime Minister is: if we distance ourselves from that, would he like to encourage these questions to be fully answered within a day or four?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u281	I have been working with my colleagues Hoekstra and Van Huffelen all afternoon on questions 8 to 24. Alexandra van Huffelen or Wopke Hoekstra can also say a little more about that. But let me say this about it. The problem is that we cannot find a conclusive explanation for this either, other than what has been reported in answers to previous parliamentary questions. This means that in June 2019 the process ran in the department to arrive at a solution. The memo-Palms that then came up were in line with this and a confirmation of the solution direction. And that's probably why it wasn't valued. But that is not a final answer, I would also say to Mr Omtzigt. And I think he feels the same way. Nor has the parliamentary interrogation committee been able to give an answer on this issue. I think this is what we're gonna have to do. I think we should interview all those people who are involved in this. Because we just don't have the answer. So that means we have to interview these people. I think it would be wise for this to be done by an independent, external party, because I think it would be better if we did not do so ourselves. However, I would like to add that if the Chamber has specific concerns or suspicions, let them be given to us in confidence, because they can help us to find a more rapid answer. But apart from that third point, I think it would be wise to interview the people concerned. We just talked about that. Some of these people are no longer working there, but we will have to ask an independent external party to reconstruct it. But the answer to these parliamentary questions by Finance was genuine, because they just don't have the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u282	I understand that not all the answers are available immediately, but some of the answers are available. For example, I ask the question: what was the function of the employee in question who was ordered to see what had happened to the memo-Palms? In unprecedented injustice, it just says that it was the DGBD. That's the Director-General of the IRS. So the answers to some of those questions could have been found in unprecedented injustice. And those answers should also be available. I imagine giving the answers to some of the other questions is difficult. But let me be clear: I accept this offer. I'd appreciate it if you'd do that. But I want you to appoint someone we agree with. I've already made some more enemies in The Hague today, and I'll say something ugly again: but not Mr. Donner, please. No. Someone who was Vice-President of the Council of State in advance, along with the former Secretary of State for Social Affairs under Minister Asscher; I did not think that was the most independent committee. Let me just say it very neatly. What has happened there, and how they have brushed away all, but also all, illegalities in order to conclude that nothing was unlawful, that is impossible. Yeah, we'll get back to that. That is why I would like to have a proposal this week on who could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u283	This is from Mr. Hoekstra or Mrs. Van Huffelen, along this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u284	Yes. And I'm also asking that it be done in a few weeks, so that everyone can put it there. If the committee wants to do it itself... I see Mrs Leijten. Maybe the POK should take its own initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u285	Let's have that conversation. But to manage expectations again, I say: I will not be able to coordinate them myself. Alexandra van Huffelen and Wopke Hoekstra, the rulers of finance, agree with the answer. We've discussed that in advance. I said: I want to have it too, and if Mr Omtzig asks me about it, I want to be able to answer him, because it is now seen as a failure of a commitment in last Friday's letter and that is not our intention. So this is what we want to do. You accept the offer. Let's have the conversation about exactly how we shape that. What is being said about Mr Donner, I really should be on Mr Omtzigt's behalf, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u286	You can, and you don't have to take over...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u287	I understand that, but I must have said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u288	But let me put it this way. You can read in the documents of the POK how enthusiastic I was about that proposal as an independent committee. There may also be a motion from me and Mr Bruins on how we should appoint independent committees in this country, because that is another problem that I have not come to. My second question. Actually, I was hoping there might be some kind of reflection on how this happened. There was no master plan to destroy 30,000 parents; I have no doubt about that. Really, I don't believe in that for a second. But something went wrong in the state. I have given my reflection and I have said what my thoughts are in that regard. But that analysis is crucial in order to be able to figure out what things you want to fix in the state. I think we need a more independent press, a more independent Lower House and more openness, precisely because of the mechanisms I have indicated. Has the government made such an analysis? Has she made an analysis of what the mechanisms are, that if something goes wrong, and whoever the Prime Minister is, there's gonna be something wrong, that's gonna happen, that won't take ten years before it comes up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u289	Here excuses fit Mr Omtzigt personally. He once referred to it in a debate in the Chamber, I thought, and said: should the President not call Rutte to make that apology? I am now going to make it on behalf of the cabinet to Mr Omtzigt and others who have worked on it along three lines. First of all, I apologise for the fact that information known within departments has not reached official and political leadership, which also prevented us from making that known to the House of Representatives. As a result, that control function could not be properly exercised. The second thing the parliamentary interrogation committee is talking about is that the information system in the departments was simply inadequate. So we are going to work to improve it. The third reason why apologies to Mr Omtzigt and others are in order is because it should never have been the case that Article 11 of the Wob or whatever it was then and which has existed since the 1980s has apparently been applied in practice in a way that would not have allowed sufficient information to pass to the Chamber. I'm not saying that that's what happened. I can't exactly oversee that, but at least that feeling exists and I take it very seriously. I should like to apologize for that, also in connection with the debate that has taken place earlier here where Mr Omtzigt asked. I think that's in place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u290	Thanks for that, but it wasn't entirely the question. What is the government's analysis that allowed this to happen for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u291	Can I get into that? 'Cause it's in Friday's letter, too. I thought Mr Omtzig referred a little more to the provision of information. He means it wider. That is what Friday's letter goes into in detail. It discusses what is ultimately organized in the execution in such a way that senior officials and administrators know what is happening in the execution and what lessons they can draw from it, so that you are able to fix errors in advance, during and afterwards. I couldn't do that here. This place has gone on for too long. This is the place where it's been dawdling. There have been a few signals; we know them all. There's been a couple of room motions. Then there was a re-attachment. There was a signal from the state attorney, I say, out of my mind, in 2009. There was a signal from the Ombudsman in 2017. But in the end it took until the summer of 2019 to see the full extent of this problem. In my absolute conviction, you can only restore that. We write a lot about that in the letter, and we can discuss it with the two State Secretarys, who want to say something about it, and Wopke Hoekstra as Minister of Finance, by setting up all the systems you have so that it is clear in advance, during and afterwards what is happening. Two. You have to be able to take this into account in detail in the letter too, in order to take account of extreme situations for people, with hardness clauses and everything else available to us in law, so that ultimately what has happened here cannot happen, namely that people have fallen between the wheels of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u292	I don't share this analysis. I'm gonna try and explain that. I have not only been dived into the history of law, but also into the periodic policy reviews. The regular policy reviews of 2015 and 2016 of both the childcare allowance and the implementation of the surcharges by the Tax Administration are reports of 100 pages on how the policy was implemented. They were written from behind a desk. There's no record of 30,000 people getting in between the wheels. We manage to have a separate circuit of bureaucracy and execution here in The Hague. Adding a few more reports isn't gonna solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u293	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u294	What I'm looking for is a way to, when something goes wrong... that's why I called whistleblowers. The only whistleblower that ever happened to had to get out. It'll be restored after that. But I'm looking for a way in which the cabinet's reflection on this too is going wrong, there are automatic checks-and-balances and people who warn about that aren't getting caught up. That does not have to be a reflection that I am totally receiving tonight, but a reflection on power and counterpower of power in the country - which is the most burdensome thing - is necessary. Does the cabinet want to make it, or does the cabinet propose to strengthen it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u295	I was going to go into that later. But it's important. I'm going into that now. It is a crucial part of the debate and I am very pleased that Mr Omtzigt is asking that question about power and counterpower. Let me begin by saying that it follows from the establishment of the rule of law that Parliament, as a controlling power and independent justice, is of course of great importance as a counter-power for the executive. That's where we don't have to take over each other. We all do. The report of the parliamentary interrogation committee shows that all three state powers have a reason to look in the mirror on this point. This has been done widely here and also in the first term of the Chamber, and I very much appreciate that. First of all, we ourselves: the government, the cabinet, as executive power, but also, of course, the judiciary. When I say "legislative power," we are always together, not just the Chamber. So the system has not worked and has led to very big problems for a lot of people. That is what the report points to, and I shall first go to the report itself. It also points out that this is why I thought: this is also the right time to make the apology I have planned tonight to Mr Omtzigt on the information system of the government in informing the Chamber. That is why we are also opting for this wider provision of information. In addition, there will be a large number of reforms in sectoral legislation, the core of which is that there is more scope for tailor-made work. That is what I have just said, and that is what the letter from last Friday goes into in detail. Those reforms are not intended to create more administrative ballast or to introduce more control systems. It is meant to ensure, in good Dutch, that the feedback, the information you get from the execution about what does and what does not work, is picked up. A top official occasionally sits at the counter himself, experiences what happens and talks on the work floor. The same applies to a Secretary of State or Minister. Making sure that it is not an accidental visit, but that it is structured in the whole approach of the government, so that there is always a complete shouldersle of implementation and policy, is, in my opinion, the only way to prevent this kind of thing and to prevent those signals from coming out. Apart from that, there is the issue of whistleblowers. I recognize that, but that's not the core of the solution here. Then it's actually too late, if whistleblowers are needed to signal things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u296	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u297	I would also like to take up his point, if he so requests, in the further development of the proposals contained in the letter, to further enrich this part of the debate on our part with our views and to discuss them for longer. I think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u298	I would appreciate an update in June on how that works and how it works. For it is my firm conviction that an additional hardness clause would not have solved it here. In other cases, it would have been solved by the Participation Act; a few other things would have been solved. But fraud would not have helped that harshness clause, which is never used in a fraud hunt. Let's just be very clear about that. So it's the lack of... That's extreme at the IRS, isn't it? You've got the Tax Phone. At the Tax Phone we deliberately have a lot of people with a temp contract, because if they are there for three years we have to hire them; but that's for sure and we don't want that. They don't have direct contact. They even have them on the bottom of their screen: these are fraudsters, so you are not allowed to share much. But they don't share that back. So all the feedback loops you can think of are eliminated even harder at the Tax Administration than at other services. The analysis of how this can be structurally restored in the government would be extremely desirable. Because that it lasts ten years is what we really need to prevent next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u299	Agreed. I assure you that we will do so in June. Then these are all elements that we need to include. But we still have to talk about it. It's not like we're gonna find Columbus' egg right here, but it's crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u300	I mentioned the Prime Minister of Teflon. There's a lot of slipping off of him and there's not much sticking. But we're talking thousands of parents, thousands of lives that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u301	Try talking into the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u302	Sorry. It's thousands of parents and thousands of lives that have really been destroyed, and it looks like it's barely touching the Prime Minister. I would still appeal to him to show a little more of himself, so that we can see that it has touched him and see what he's going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u303	It hits me and it hits me. Last Thursday, I spoke with Samantha, one of the members of the panel that supports the Secretary of State, someone who participated in a small video for the rulers who had the first conversation at the Catshuis. If you see what a terrible devastating effect this has had on their lives, when I think of the conversations that Hoekstra and I had in Rijswijk and of the two talks that Alexandra van Huffelen had as Secretary of State in The Hague last Monday and in which I was allowed to attend she conducts a lot of those talks and then when you hear what a huge impact this has on people, I don't know how to convince Mrs Van Brennk that this affects me. It affects me enormously, because no one here, nor I, has taken the job as MP or minister to crush people and not to offer them the protection that the rule of law has to offer them. Worse still, with all its omnipotence, the State has been able to crush these people in such a way. We all have an expensive duty, including me as Prime Minister, to put this right. No doubt about that. I cannot open Mrs Van Brenk's head and say that I am very sorry. If she thinks it's slipping away from me, I have to accept it, but it's not, not for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u304	I am glad that the Prime Minister says this, but it does affect when the Prime Minister says twice that it only became fully clear in the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u305	That's the tragedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u306	But 2019!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u307	We didn't know until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u308	But we are now in 2021 and when we look at how many people are being compensated, my question is: is this minister, responsible for this missionary period, going to do everything in his power to ensure that this is resolved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u309	And yet I insist that we have been doing that since 2020, only it is incredibly complex. That is one of the reasons why, also out of our own frustration, we have made the decision for Christmas to give that accelerated compensation of €30,000. There was no discussion about that at all. We had all come to the same point: this has to be done now. That that happened was because we're all frustrated about how hard it is. But it's so hard for reasons that we have to think about. That may not necessarily be necessary tonight, but I would just say that if you were to quickly compensate people, you would immediately be at risk of being quickly pissed off by creditors, so that people are not out of trouble and still lag behind in debt. You want people to be able to start again. That's what we agreed to with the Chamber, and that's what we want ourselves to do. You want people to be able to keep part of the money and not lose everything to creditors. You want them to be able to rebuild. Proposals have been made for a fund for the children. Much has also been said about the non-material damage. If those aspects are relevant. It's complicated. It's a big group. But precisely because of the frustration that things aren't going as fast as you want, we've decided to apply that acceleration for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u310	One last point on which I would like to have a reflection from the Prime Minister is the image of the Netherlands and of this Prime Minister in Europe. When we look at what devastating judgments were in all the European newspapers about the fact that the government, the Tax Administration, sees its own citizens as enemies, I wonder what that means to him personally. What does that mean if he joins the Heads of Government next time? How does he explain this? How is he going to explain this to his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u311	The same way we do here, that there is a huge reason for very great shame and that you cannot explain this at all. Something's gone terribly wrong here. This affects tens of thousands of people in a democracy and a rule of law like the Netherlands. This is not Malta, I say to Mr Omtzigt. This really isn't Malta. I know what he is doing to tackle the problems in Malta, and I respect that very much, but this is not Malta. It has led to tens of thousands of people in this country getting caught up in the wheels of the system. Their personal lives have been destroyed in many cases. I'm not gonna explain anything. I'll tell you what happened and that it fills us with shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u312	Several questions have been asked to the Prime Minister, including his emotion. Now he says, "I'm ashamed of what happened." It's also about the question of when he knew. That was in the summer of 2019. Then, in his fullness, it dawned on the Prime Minister. Apart from that, what else could he have done and what else could he have done? What if we took the whole timeline and went back to the Anti-Fraud Commission? I've been talking about attention and self-reflection. I have also looked at ourselves on behalf of my group, including our own voting behaviour. I have also mentioned the one-sidedness with which we have looked at Bulgarian fraud. Every effort was made to combat this fraud: whatever it takes. Let us take the whole timeline for a moment: ministerial committee on the fight against fraud, Bulgarian fraud, legislation, no hardness clause, injustice that remained under the radar. What were, looking back, the moments when things could have been different and maybe should have been different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u313	Mr. Chairman. When the Ombudsman's report was published in 2017, I believe that attention has been paid to it in the media, but a lot of Ombudsman's reports appear. Quite frankly, at that time, I was not in any doubt about it. Actually, no one has been attacked, but a number of MPs probably have. I should get the whole file back, but cabinet-wide didn't realize how big it was until the summer of '19. It's much bigger than just CAF 11 and other things, like we thought at first. This is very large, with the hardness of the system, set-up/great debt and all the things that came out afterwards. I would very much like to be able to say "I wish I had' now, but then I will also declare myself holy and say that I will respond to every Ombudsman's report next time. What I can only say, of course, is that I also wonder: why haven't we seen this before? Why haven't we picked up some signals before? There was a motion by Mrs Siderius of the SP which was agreed. It is not that every Tuesday I follow every concerted motion in the voting lists, but if you look back on it now, you think: did we then but all of us... There was a motion from the PVV, from the later Alderman De Mos in The Hague. I don't know if it's accepted or coordinated. I don't even know. But there were these kinds of signals. I hear they've even been hired. Think also of the state's attorney in 2009. There were moments like that. And yet we didn't get the hang of it. I don't know if we can convince each other here that next time we're gonna get on with it. The tragedy is, of course, that we didn't actually see it until the summer of 2019. That's the great frustration. I'm also trying to find my own guilt. I sincerely do not believe that the Ministerial Committee on Fraud... I cannot... If there is an atmosphere of anti-fraud, as I said to Mr Jetten, people can think: oh, then we can do so. But I'm not gonna make a direct link to it. Then I would do that to please you, but I don't think you can make a direct link, but an indirect link. So where are the moments when you should have seen it? I find it extremely complex. Quite frankly, I wasn't thinking about this question. Let me be honest with Mr Segers: I was not thinking about that question. How to next time... Today there are also things in the paper about things that don't go well. We are now, of course, very alert to the assistance, and the familiar story of those messages. That's what Vant Wout's doing. I think he sent a letter about it today. That's because we're so busy on this subject right now. But maybe something's going wrong in the AOW or in the child benefit I don't know about which we'll say in a few years' time: if only we'd seen it. So I wasn't thinking about how to tighten up that signalling system. That brings me back to the discussion with Omtzigt and my commitment to him on how to set up these systems in such a way that you do have that information, that you see and feel for yourself, as official and political leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u314	We have all missed a great deal, including the Ombudsman's report in the summer of 2017. But I'm asking for choices. We have voted on laws here. We have voted on amendments here. We have looked here at the opinion of the Council of State, which said: come up with a hardness clause; this is too harsh. We've even heard Secretary of State Weekers, who said, "Now it's really going..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u315	He said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u316	He said, "Room, know that it is now going more towards repression and that the good can suffer from the evils." So these are choices. I can also say afterwards that I should have seen it more clearly earlier. I think we can all say that. But as a group we have looked at the choices we have made where our hand really had to go up or down: where else would it have been? That is the same question I would like to put to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u317	I understand that. That is a different question than the one I understood. About that question as I thought I understood it, I wasn't thought of. I can't answer that yet. I'm gonna have to think about that for a long time. This question is no easier. It's just as difficult, but we have to answer it. If I've learned one thing in the last ten years, or in the eighteen, nineteen years that I've been in politics, it's how incredibly risky it is to go along with fashion too much. Well, that sounds like... with the wave of the day, let me call it that. The risk is that the pendulum goes all the way from there to there. If there is one thing I incredibly admire in the Chancellor of Germany who unfortunately left in September, it is the ability to make a deep analysis of issues and problems and that she is trying to find a solution, not by... Well, with the Atomausstieg she has taken a very wild step, would be my criticism of her. On average, however, in the sixteen years she has been Chancellor of Germany, she has tried to get things right with small adjustments and small steps. Again, I insist that the fight against fraud is necessary. I think that everyone here actually thinks so too, for the support of social security. But under the influence of pressure from journalists, because we do so ourselves; journalists do not put us under pressure from a great deal of publicity, and rightly, about Bulgarian fraud and other things, that has led to a pendulum, a pendulum that has been spread far too far. I think that the joint lesson in this country, with all cabinet in coalitions, with the search for majorities in the Second and First Chambers, is that our prosperity is largely based not on the fact that we let the pendulum spread from one side to the other, but on trying to fix what's broken without making very large corners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u318	Then I have one last question. We observe, looking all the way back, so... The Prime Minister says: I do not know at all whether it is going back to that ministerial committee on the fight against fraud. I find that difficult...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u319	Yeah, me too, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u320	Then there have been all kinds of choices, legislative proposals, a hardness clause, not a human measure, with which we have made really wrong choices. The pendulum went too far. But one meta-question: where did that come from? That also has to do with a view of fraud, a view of people and a view of people's choices, so that fraud is always directly due to direct errors? There is an immediate assumption of self-reliance and that every choice can be traced back to a will decision of someone, namely that he wants to fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u321	Could, could, but not from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u322	Can the Prime Minister still practice one more moment of self-reflection? Where did that come from? Has it not started with the anti-fraud committee, where so much emphasis has been placed on lick-on-piece policy and no mercy on every mistake that is being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u323	No, not there. There was also a balance in that. It was a committee of VVD and PvdA; if you would then distrust the VVD on such a point, then surely not the PvdA. It wasn't that extreme. Not at all. And as a liberal, I'm not in the game, either, that I assume everyone is cheating, that we have to be tough on everyone, with licks on pieces and so on. But I care. Mr Segers is asking for reflection. It's also reflection of me to say I didn't stop it. I didn't stop that pendulum, that pendulum, from blowing out too far. I am always accused of trying to build coalitions and create majorities, precisely because I realize that everything must be done in this country on the left and right of the political centre and in the political centre. And then it's always about small adjustments with big effects. This is the lesson of the unfortunately deceased Arthur Doctors van Leeuwen. If we as politicians have to do one thing, that is small interventions with great effects. Too often we do very big things with small effects. Eventually the elephant leaves a burp, instead of the mosquito being able to accomplish very big things. Small interventions with great effects: that is my conviction. That didn't happen here. I blame myself for that. I haven't seen it either. The first Fraud Act we made in the first cabinet has also come. Fortunately, it has been revised by Asscher in the second cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u324	Back to Mr Omtzig's questions on the Prime Minister's analysis. I am pleased that Mr Omtzigt repeats it: a more independent Chamber and a well-functioning independent press, with sufficient budgets for investigative journalism. The Prime Minister does not go into these two points in any way, but he does not go into culture in the ministries either. I referred to the reconstruction that NRC brought this summer. Everything is now aimed at ensuring that the Minister does not, above all, obtain information that might be difficult. Then I understand that it does not reach directors when the Ombudsman comes out with a report in 2017 and says that something is going wrong, because the officials felt that it might be annoying for their directors. I would like to hear the Prime Minister about this, because the irony is that in these ministries, certainly in recent years, there has been a shift from substantive people to informers, but the Chamber has never been so badly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u325	I think it's too sweeping. I don't know if it's that extreme. Of course, look at the series Yes, Minister... there is always a tendency to probably try to prevent a minister from getting into the political problems, but that is always based on making good decisions. What's the point of keeping information away? Our press in the Netherlands works excellently. He'll find it anyway. Then a civil servant would try to keep something away? I don't think it's happening on that scale, really. Our officials in the Netherlands are, I think, of very high quality. This is also apparent from all international comparisons. You can have a whole discussion; we sent the ABD evaluation along. Well, what's the final conclusion of our ABD? A 7, not even 9. We really had a 7. We need to improve things. That's what we write in the cabinet response, but we have a good government in itself. We have good officials who are conscientiously doing their job. Of course, it will happen once somewhere information has not come up, especially on this subject. It is not for nothing that I have just said to Mr Omtzigt, personally, to him. But I don't think that's "the culture." Besides, if it happens, it's gonna come up anyway. We just have good reporters. We have whistleblowers. It's gonna get out. Why would you do it? I don't see the point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u326	This confirms that the Party has chosen a sensible position for the Animals: that the outgoing Prime Minister simply gets the real disadvantage of the doubt. We don't see it? A little bit of pretending it doesn't come up every now and then and saying "journalists will pull it up"? Why don't you talk to those two people from RTL News and Trouw about how much work they have in it, how many times they had to go after it and how many pieces had been painted away! And then last week we discussed the new law on the open government and at that time we were still dissuaded by the cabinet. I don't see any improvement. The Prime Minister is therefore stuck with the following political skill, and I very much resent him: to ensure that displeasure information does not reach him and the other ministers so that they can always say to the Chamber 'yes, but we all did not know that'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u327	No, not at all. No. No, sorry, that's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u328	I don't trust the Prime Minister on his blue eyes! Because all the facts...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u329	I don't even have blue eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u330	He doesn't even have blue eyes, can you see how good that is for me? The facts all speak to the Prime Minister. When the cabinet says... That's what the Prime Minister does very handy: "Yes, look, formally the sitting cabinet is responsible, so we resign. Take a look, we take our formal responsibility." But you are also responsible, materially responsible. You have created a culture in which this has evolved. I don't know who the Prime Minister is trying to sell it to, but the Netherlands isn't buying it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u331	You are now very angry about something I think I have said wrong, because I think we agree, but apparently I am not expressing myself very well. My point was this. If officials are attacked because they apparently want to cover everything, I find that analysis too easy. That was the only criticism I had of the argument. I also said that information should come up. The tragedy of this dossier is that it has also unfortunately often occurred that information on the Palmen memorandum did not reach official and political leadership in time, so that they could not be acted on the basis of their signals earlier. So I'm not saying that's not gonna happen, not at all. I just don't want to give the impression that that's not good for the whole government. That was my point. In order to make good policy, you'll need all those signals in the end. You see it now. I am also convinced that what is going to happen now is by providing much more proactive information about what is behind notes and laws and no longer applying the exception of personal policy... I am convinced. That's where my mind shifted. Yeah, that's right, but I didn't think of it either. I have always accepted it and thought: yes, I also see its logic. But my thinking has shifted: it leads to more openness and that openness also leads to better discussions. That's why we started calling it "dilemmalogica" for a reason. When making a decision, you should also outline that I always try to do so myself.What are the alternatives and why you make a decision, but you also share the underlying pieces and give that openness. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u332	Finally. I insist that I expect from the administration of this country, from the cabinet in charge of this country. Fortunately, this cabinet is only a moment away from being actively involved in counter-power, including in the ministries, and that critical officials should warn the directors of 'this is not going well, this is against the higher law'. This really isn't the only case where this is going on. Take a look at all these little debates, where the dominant interests of big business always win. I'm sure there are officials in those ministries who know what's going on, who want to warn. But either they're holding out or they're actively obstructing them. That change really needs to take place, and it needs to be done soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u333	Wherever it takes. I will just continue to defend that I do not believe that this is the case everywhere. I really don't mean that. I don't have any clues myself, and that's not my experience either. But if it happens in this file, the committee has established that it has happened, then it can't be true. Then it has to be solved, too. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u334	We are now working on the debate for almost an hour and a half. Fifteen different ways have been asked for reflection: look back at what your own role has been. It would be handsome, if it weren't reproachable, how Mark Rutte stands here. With the attitude: it was very strange, but I happened to be there in The Hague for the past fifteen years, and how it all happened exactly, I don't know either. But, Chairman, he was Secretary of State in 2003. In 2007 he was convicted by the judge and it was said: there is ethnic profiling here. Then he said, if I'm convicted, then there's just something wrong with the law, then we have to change it. We take a step towards 2010: then he became prime minister. The election programme and the entire election campaign of the VVD then spoke loudly about tackling all those profiteers in welfare and in social security. This was extended to the 2012 cabinet. In all these steps, he was there. And if they ask, "But, Mr Rutte, where else could they have done that?" Then the answer is: yes, difficult, difficult, correlation, I can't exactly indicate it. Ready! That's what you've gotten away with in the last few years. That's done. Damn it, the whole room almost the entire room... indicates where the room has failed, what laws you now think have been voted for: super stupid, do not. You were there from 2003. You're not a spectator, you're the lead! That is why again the question, and we simply want an answer to that: do you regret the brutal fraud approach that you have advocated as a VVD leader in the last three cabinets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u335	Come on. Let me just say what I said tonight. I think I've reflected and I'll repeat it again. I have just said in discussion with Mr Segers, among others, that I think that the pendulum is going too far. That is exactly what I said at the beginning of my term. I wasn't against the Ministerial Commission's approach to fraud being there. I think it's good that there was. But the whole sum of government agreement, the social climate of that moment, that committee and words and everything else, may have indirectly contributed to a culture in which people thought they could go that far. That's what I care about. That's reflection. I have also said so many times: words have their meaning. But I am not going to distance myself from the fact that I firmly believe that there must always be a balance within the rule of law, which provides the people of the country, the citizens, with the best possible means of achieving what they are entitled to, especially when they call on the shield for the weak, the social security. In conjunction with this, those who are not entitled to it must know that there is a strong fight against fraud, otherwise you will lose the support behind it. I'm not gonna stand back from that. I think it should be both. I have also spoken in my reflections about the following. I repeat that, now that Mr Klaver says "he doesn't reflect." I said: when it comes to openness, including from the government, my thinking has shifted over the past few years, even in the past year, impressed by the irritations of journalists and MPs about how it works with the Wob and how it works with Article 68 Constitution. It is not for nothing that this letter states that we want to deal radically differently with this concept of openness. I support that from a to Z and perhaps I have also had a considerable part in it. Lodewijk Asscher was the one who challenged me to share with the Chamber the slides that Jaap van Dissel calls the slides that we use in the Catshuis. Then I thought: yes, I don't even know if those things have been treated and what is the context? We've been doing that all along, and that works fine. I'm totally convinced of it, too. You saw today in the NRC a discussion between a number of experts on what happens if there is more openness. Isn't that all they're gonna write down? I don't believe that at all. I sent AZ's entire preparation file to the POK yesterday straight away. I don't get any lame comments about that either, do I? Yeah, a single one. But that's fine, too. There are also a few things in it that I think: well, hm, handy. But it's okay that this is public, isn't it? Why should I be ashamed of that? I share all these reflections here. These are my lessons. But there's one thing I can't take care of, namely that we didn't see how bad it was until 2019. Do I hate that? Yes! In discussion with Mr Jetten, the question was: is there a direct link with the Ministerial Committee on the fight against fraud? I do not think so, but it may well be that the atmosphere surrounding the fight against fraud led people to think: now I can do that. I say this in response to Mr Klaver, because I really want to defend myself. I really think I'm gonna reflect here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u336	If you say, "Well, the pendulum just went through," that's a classic from Mark Rutte's toolbox. That's what he always says: you shouldn't go to the extremes, it should always stay a little in the middle and it shouldn't come out. That's not enough. In recent years, under your leadership, a system has been built based on mistrust. If you don't want to distance yourself from that, if you don't say it was wrong on second thought, then you didn't really understand the lessons. Do you distance yourself from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u337	My response to that question is: To what extent? Mr Klaver gives an interpretation of the VVD election programme which I leave to him. Let's not make a caricature of each other's views. I do agree with him and I said this tonight that the emphasis on the fight against fraud is necessary, and the extent to which this happened and the social context, in which I myself have played a full part, including as chairman of that committee, which I have not for a second run away from, have been able to contribute to an atmosphere in the Netherlands in which this fight against fraud could also be seen by people in the implementation as being able to go as it has gone. That has led to this terrible tragedy. But I cannot say that there is a direct link between one and the other. That means that I, too, am aiming at the third of the lessons that I appointed at the beginning of the debate, when it comes to combating fraud, when it comes to responding to social developments that call for a political answer, always trying to find the nuance, always looking for words, for policy translations, which makes it possible to do so and which does not lead to some kind of extreme change in perceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u338	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u339	Finally. The Prime Minister knows what to say, but the question is whether he really understood the essence of what has gone wrong recently. I really have the impression that that is not the case. He says: over the past year I have become aware of how important it is that there is more openness from the cabinet. My party's been working on the Open Government Act for ten years. That was pushed back by this Prime Minister personally. Every time we wanted a little more in there, they pushed back and pushed back and pushed back. Only in the last two weeks has progress been made, because of this whole surcharge scandal. This hasn't been a thing of the past. Political pressure was getting too high. That's where Mark Rutte is the best of everyone here in The Hague. Once the political pressure gets too high, he makes a U-turn and he goes along. It's not true that that insight has descended over the past year. At Hawija we didn't get the pieces, at the dividend tax we didn't get the pieces. We saw the same pattern there as with the premium fraud. When it comes to transparency, colleagues Van Weyenberg and Snels have really done their utmost to get a new law through, but they have only seen opposition from the cabinet. The turn came only when it really got too hot politically under the feet and there was no other option but to give space. It's only been the last two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u340	There is one point that I thought was important to guard: officials should be able to discuss with each other without these discussions always coming out unbiased. In this way you are able to develop ideas, concepts and so on. What you also notice in this dossier is that it may have sometimes led to too little information. That is why I think it is right and I have also insisted, also because of my personal experience with this subject over the last six months, that this step should be taken. I am convinced that this will ultimately lead to a much more relaxed discussion and will also clarify the alternatives that have been played out in policy ideas. That is good for the political debate. Mr Klaver has given me a number of reasons for this, which is part of the political debate, but I really leave it at his disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u341	I think we have come reasonably to the end of this part of the debate. I'm just trying to process what we've heard now. It is now becoming a bit of a faint word game, as if the Chamber, when it asks for reflection, no longer wants to fight fraud, as if, when the Chamber asks for responsibility, it should go on for a very long time about what direct or indirect responsibility is. Let me try another way. Does Mr Rutte recognise that in the last ten years in all the different roles he's played, his fingerprints have been on this entire file? From the harsh words about Somalis and Antilleans, to tough statements like 'pleasure', to his chair of the fraud committee, all these elements have contributed to us getting into this kind of policy in this sphere, in this culture. Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u342	Well, no. Then "pleasure" is also brought in and that was quite different. This involved a group of young people with a Turkish background who were working to make the NIS impossible to work. Then I said about that bridge in Rotterdam: if you find it so horrible in this country that you make it impossible for even the free press to film, then fuck off. And I'm still totally behind that. I'd really say that again. That was in 2016; nothing changed. What I do say is that I also realize that if you talk to each other, so do I... As Prime Minister, of course, I have the biggest call horn of all. I have the biggest megaphone and most coverage in the media. Yeah, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. As leader of the largest party, of course, this is also the case in campaigns. Isn't that right? But then I think I have to reflect too, and that's what I'm doing on what that means. I take lessons from that, namely that I think that every nuance is important. If that nuance is not there, it can happen if: oh, then we can go unbridled. That could have happened, and I think that's wrong. But what Mr Jetten is doing now is making it more of a party political debate. That's how I feel about D66 against the VVD, and I think that's more of a campaign thing. In my opinion, that does not fit in with this moment and this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u343	I see a cabinet letter that contains a lot of content. There lessons are learned from the destructive report Unfamiliar injustice. But what I myself asked for in the first place, and what I think almost the entire Chamber has done, is whether Mr Rutte also sees that this day must be a break with the culture we have seen over the last ten years. If Mr Rutte can't acknowledge that all that tough language of the past few years, all those heavy words that have been used and all those ways that groups have been put away in the Netherlands, created the atmosphere and culture that we found acceptable for years that people were wrongly labeled as fraud, then... We found it acceptable that a dual nationality played a role in this and so on. If you can't see that even tonight, as far as I'm concerned, you're not at the point: this is a trend break, this is a new beginning, it has to be in a different way. I note that the Prime Minister still sees himself as someone who was responsible at a distance of 1.5 metres and who is also afraid to recognise in this debate that his fingerprints are all over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u344	No. I do not agree with Mr Jetten. No, that's not what I'm saying. I do agree with him that it is very important that when you talk about combating fraud, use too many words, put too much emphasis on it and use the megaphone for it, which can lead to a culture in which people think 'o, then anything'. That's what I'm attracted to, and that's what I said. I'm just saying that didn't come out of the drama we've seen. That was never the intention, of course, and there was no direct link. I agree with him. I absolutely agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u345	Then I first have Azarkan, at least if... You forgot what it was about? Then Mrs Marijnissen and then we have to move on to the next subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u346	No, Mr. Chairman. I was with you for a moment, because I asked a number of questions, some nine, about that second nationality. It was just unclear to me whether...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u347	I haven't had a chance to answer them yet. These questions are about to be answered by Mrs Van Huffelen, but I will give a general answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u348	I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u349	I would ask Mr Azarkan to accept that Mrs Van Huffelen goes into more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u350	Let me get Mr. Wilders' microphone, Mr. Chairman. Let's just get to this point. It seems that in this cabinet the imagery is often more important than the truth. We have now collected a number of examples of this. We saw that with the dividend tax, because that would be necessary for the economy. But even though we asked again and again about the pieces, they just didn't come and eventually the cunt was withdrawn. We saw it at Zijlstra. He lied, and the Prime Minister was aware of that. But that wasn't a problem. It wasn't until it got in the paper that there was a problem and he stepped down here. And now we see that again, namely the €30,000 promised to parents around the Christmas period. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister a question about this. I think this is the imagery, but if this isn't the imagery you want, then you're not gonna call in the media "all affected parents get $30,000" if you don't get your shit together yet? Day after that, the tax authorities of their own raised their finger and said: no, we're going to take some of that money anyway. And that's when the parents hadn't been informed yet, so they didn't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u351	As has already been mentioned in the debate a little bit earlier, however, it may be a good thing to deepen that further, because of the frustration in the cabinet about the complexity of the settlement. I've outlined how complex it is, because you have so many factors to take into account. A good organisation has been built up at the Tax Administration with highly motivated people to do the same. They're concerned with doing justice to the victims. At the same time, it must be established how long that takes and how complicated that is. We had a number of sessions in the Catshuis with a limited group of administrators and then three more discussions in the whole cabinet in terms of content, before we got to the political question about the report. We said to each other at the first session: let's see what we can do to take a big step towards these parents quickly. That's where this comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u352	But that is precisely the problem. If you wanted to take a big step towards the parents, you'd have acted before. Secondly, if you come up with that $30,000, you'll make sure things are in order, won't you? So it just wasn't. With this it seems that it was much more for the imagery and that it was an attempt to look: how does all this land, can we still stay in this way? When that was not the case, another conclusion was reached. Because if it wasn't about the imagery, Prime Minister, you would have made sure that the plan was just right before you came out with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u353	That has nothing to do with the question of whether or not to resign. That's a separate question. It was our first substantive discussion in which Alexandra van Huffelen said that she had been in contact with me, with Wopke Hoekstra and with others, and also dropped down in the sitting: I think that, because of the frustration we have all felt for a while, also the Chamber, about how complicated it is, we should now take a step in the direction of parents to ensure that a first piece of compensation is made. Yeah, that means there'll be parents who get more than they might eventually be entitled to. But shit, it's so serious what happened here; it is. There will also be parents who are entitled to more. That €30,000 is about the median of the whole problem. That's why we did it. That really has nothing to do with what Mrs Marijnissen is suggesting here, sincerely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u354	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u355	The Prime Minister can, of course, repeat that. I get that he does, because the other story is a really ugly story. But that is the truth, and at least the truth of all these parents, because they must have heard from the media: oh, there is €30,000 coming. In my first term, I told you what kind of trouble and misery that has caused, what uncertainty that has led to, to this day. I ask the Prime Minister: why does he do that? If he really was so sorry and then realized how terribly wrong things had gone, then he's doing this kind of thing in a proper way, isn't he? If anything comes after all these years of misery, you'll make sure it's in order and those people will be the first to be informed? But now they need to hear it from the media and then they get to see that it's just not in order. Surely that doesn't help to make it clear that there's regret, that things need to be corrected? That only confirms to us that the most important thing is ultimately the imagery and that the imagery must be maintained at the expense of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u356	No, it's not. It's not. What we wanted to do here was to express a feeling here in the Chamber, in the Cabinet, in the parents' office, how complex it is to settle it properly and what was possible to put a huge acceleration in it, and thus also to ensure for a whole number of parents that the subject can be completed, of course in conjunction with everything that is now agreed on the cancellation of debts from the government and all other things. I think that is a sensible step, and I think it is also a good thing that we did, to show that we are serious. That is not imaging, but that is showing to parents: we feel with you the frustration about that inertia. That is not because we do not want to be quick, but because it is extremely complex and there are many aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u357	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u358	Perhaps then a general response towards Mr Azarkan on discrimination. My question to him is whether he agrees with Mrs Van Huffelen's more comprehensive reply. The Personal Data Authority has found that Supplements in three processing operations have unlawfully processed nationality. But I also want to stay exactly, including the officials. The Personal Data Authority has not been able to establish that ethnically profiled by the Tax Administration/Applications. The use of nationalities by the Tax Administration was not aimed at making distinctions based on ethnicity or race, the AP concludes. However, discriminatory processing operations have been carried out at the Tax Office on the basis of nationality, which was not necessary for the assessment of whether someone was entitled to child care allowance. In addition to the processing of nationality and dual nationality, there are other subjects, but that is very serious signs that Tax Service employees have expressed themselves unfairly and discriminatoryly. It is therefore independent of the use of nationality. Parents have repeatedly reported that they have experienced that they have been treated differently than others because of their dual nationality. Terrible things have been said. Somewhere in the pieces "a nest of Antilleans" occurs. "Blacks" appears to be a family name and therefore not to refer to the discriminatory remark. It was Mr. Blackies. But "Antillians" is not a family name; that has really been a discriminatory remark, and that is unacceptable. Employees need to know that. That is what the letter goes into in detail. I would therefore like to ask that in a general sense. However, I would also like to ask Mr Azarkan if he would agree with Mrs Van Huffelen's comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u359	Yeah, I'm gonna talk to Mrs. Van Huffelen about that later. But there is something that needs to be said. Now it seems as if no distinction has been made. When I look at the response of the cabinet to question 10 of the set of 96 questions I submitted on 14 July last year, I see that the AP states that there is discrimination on the grounds of nationality, without any objective justification. What's that different from...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u360	Yes. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u361	Is that discrimination? Is that racism? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u362	No, that's discriminatory processing based on nationality. But it is not that they have profiled ethnically, says the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That would have been the case if they had distinguished on the basis of ethnicity or race. I'm quoting the Authority's Personal Data. Mr Azarkan is now shouting and pretending to say something very strange, but I am trying to quote this authority. The use of first nationality in the risk classification model should not have been allowed, the use of first nationality in the detection of organised fraud should not have been allowed and the processing of dual nationalities in the systems should not have been allowed. If someone is non-Dutch, you can write down whether it is an EU national or a non-EU national, but you cannot report the country. If a person is also a Dutch national in addition to EU national or non-EU national, only Dutch nationality may be reported. But now I'm out of ammo. So I am really asking Mr Azarkan if he is okay with this, because we are sitting here with an entire delegation of the cabinet, for the other questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u363	Just a little longer. The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u364	I guess I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u365	I also saw Mrs Arib thinking a bit with me about the difference between using nationality as a distinction for another treatment, when it is said that that is not a race. In other words, nationality is not a race.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u366	Again, I quote the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I think that's our highest organ looking at this kind of thing. But once again, Mrs Van Huffelen is armed to the teeth on this point. Maybe he can understand it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u367	One last question, though. It says that once the service had stopped to register it, a free field was created in which, for example, someone's last name was registered. That was part of it. How does that work out? How does registering a last name in a free field participate in selecting if someone is a fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u368	I really don't know. That is a question that Mrs Van Huffelen has noted. So I'm sure she'll take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u369	I also have a question for the Prime Minister about dual nationality, about the concept of 'nationality'. I really don't see it in any way. I would like to submit it to him. What the hell is against it or discriminatory about it if you register the nationality of everyone, of Dutch and non-Dutch. What the hell is against doing that to everyone? If you do that to everyone, I don't think it's discriminatory on balance anymore. If you then use it only when you see more fraud being committed in relation to a group, that it is one of the actors involved, I do not think it is discriminatory. This promotes the fight against fraud. I really don't see... There's a certain taboo on this. What I'm saying now isn't what happened or what the AP is writing about either. But what's against just saying: we write down the nationality of everyone, Dutch and non-Dutch, and we don't do anything about it, so we don't use that to start with, but if we see that a lot is being cheated on in a certain group, then that's an extra factor that weighs. I honestly don't see what's against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u370	The legislation is in this way so I understand that you can register that someone is Dutch as well as those who are Dutch nationals. If someone doesn't have it, you can register: EU or non-EU. Why is it important to register, for example, that someone is Dutch? For example, for many jobs, Dutch nationality is a condition for working there. That's what Dutch nationality is for. For example, there are other places where that is a justified distinction. That's how the law works. I don't know if this is the time to get all the benefits and disadvantages out of this existing legislation, but that's how it works. Things went wrong here at the IRS. But again, also doing justice to that Tax Service: yes, serious signals from employees who have expressed themselves unacceptable, but the Dutch Data Protection Authority also that is a fact.... has not been able to establish that there has been ethnic profile.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u371	Mr President, am I standing before Piet Snot that I simply cannot get an answer in any interruption? You do not have the beginning of an answer to my question. You are simply repeating the same answers you just gave to Mr Azarkan. I have another question. I said, and I'll repeat that one more time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u372	I heard. Why not write "Bulgarian" instead of "EU national"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u373	I'm asking what the hell is against that. What the hell is discriminatory about this thing? Maybe I can finish the question of simply registering nationality with everyone? I think we just did that before 2014. Then it just happened. If the UWV, the municipality for the assistance and the tax administration for the surcharges see that Sweden, Algerians or anyone else is being overproported, they are not going to check all Sweden and Algerians, but this becomes a kind of extra hint to get the people in sight. How else would you find out about a Bulgarian scam next time? It's perfectly normal for you to do that, isn't it? I would argue in favour of starting that again. If you do not want that, I want at least a good answer as to why this cannot be done, because there is really nothing discriminatory about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u374	Let me peel it off. One. In preparing for this debate, I understand that the legislation is as follows, but I am not an expert on this issue and perhaps Mrs Van Huffelen can confirm in her term whether I am saying it correctly. If you are not a Dutchman, you will be registered as an EU national or non-EU national. If you are Dutch, besides that, you will always be registered as a Dutchman. That is, I understand, the existing legislation. I would ask Mrs Van Huffelen to confirm this in her term of office. Two. If that is true, then that is the existing legislation and I can only say that this cabinet has no intention of changing it. Yes, if Mr Wilders asks for my personal opinion, I actually agree with him, I think. But he's not asking for my personal views, he's asking for the cabinet's views. There is no intention of this outgoing cabinet to change the legislation on this issue, if I have just correctly explained it, which is thus being confirmed by Mrs Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u375	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u376	Finally. That is at least the beginning of a fair answer. I'm not asking you to do that. I didn't ask you to. Maybe I'll do that in a motion right away, but I'm talking about proposing this system for everyone, wherever you come from, and not using it unless you see somewhere that they're cheating on a certain benefit. They can be Bulgarians or others, but again, they can also be Sweden. There is nothing discriminatory about these proposals. That you don't want to, that's a second, but you can just imagine that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u377	No, that would be my guess, too. Mr Wilders is very angry, but I think he has a point. Only, I am not expert on this point, so I hesitate a little with the certainty of my answer. I want to make sure that the basic legislation is well represented by me here, but Mrs Van Huffelen will confirm that shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u378	Then I actually want to go to a conclusion. Yes, I see you standing, Mr. Clover, but... Last question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u379	I haven't answered any questions yet, namely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u380	I see that Mr Klaver wishes to intervene on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u381	This is about institutional racism. I think it's important to ask the Prime Minister about something. We will be speaking to the Secretary of State on the subject of technology later, but this is a political question. If he quotes the Personal Data Authority and says "there is no racism," I quote from the files. If it says "black pricks, shall I say, thick lips and big earrings," does the Prime Minister still say that there is no racism?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u382	I have just said to Mr Azarkan that there are two discussions. One of them was mentioned by the Dutch Data Protection Authority (the Dutch Data Protection Authority) about the unlawful processing of the use of nationality, not leading to ethnic profiling according to the AP. I have said, and I have just explained it in detail, that this is completely separate from the signals that the Tax Administration staff have been unpleasant and discriminatory. I also just mentioned that horrible quote from "litter Antilleans." The first analysis on the term "blackies" that recently appeared in a tweet shows it to be a family name of a gentleman or Mrs. Zwartjes. That has probably not been a discriminatory remark, so we can make that right. This is also the case in the answer to the parliamentary questions, but that remark 'nest Antilleans' is not about a family name. That is really a discriminatory remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u383	That's a real repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u384	Mr. Klaver... Don't you want to hear the answer? I agree with him: those are two very different things. One is to use nationality in a way that is not allowed. The AP has made observations on this and is still considering a fine...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u385	But I think you've explained that two or three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u386	I heard that explanation, but my question was another one. What I would like from the Prime Minister is the recognition that there has been racism in these cases. I haven't heard that recognition. That's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u387	Discrimination, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u388	Will the Prime Minister acknowledge that there has been racism?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u389	Yeah, it's discrimination and racism, of course, if you use that kind of time frame, right? Of course, there's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u390	Discrimination...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u391	And racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u392	And racism...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u393	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Why would I run away from that? That's terrible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u394	Then I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u395	That's nice. It is important to recognise this, because that is the beginning of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u396	Sure, the letter goes into that in detail too, because we really do not accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u397	I'll come back to the point: is this the night we break up with that culture of the past? I have a question in connection with the debate between the Prime Minister and Mr Wilders. A distinction was made between the view of the cabinet and Mr Rutte's private opinion and therefore the view of the leader of the VVD. Is it his private opinion that the registration of dual nationalities is fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u398	No. The question was: if someone has a different nationality than the Dutch, can you say "EU" instead of "Bulgarian"? I can't judge as quickly as possible what the objection would be. So I move something along with Mr Wilders, but I said that I am not an expert; perhaps I am missing something. But in the theoretical discussion that you would change the law, if I represented the law properly... I have been told that we register "EU" and "non-EU," and if someone is Dutch, he is only Dutch. We're not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u399	Mrs. Ploumen. Oh, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u400	"We're not gonna change that." No, I didn't. That's the cabinet position. But it was just suggested that there was a difference between the cabinet position and the private opinion, and Mr Wilders would not be interested in that. I am interested in this personal view, because it is ultimately about the question: do we recognise this evening that there must be a break with the past? If, in spite of all this misery, that private opinion is still able to register double nationalities, then we have not yet found that break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u401	No, I don't think so at all. Only, in my view, was the discussion with Mr Wilders: if someone is Bulgarian, is he registered as Bulgarian or as an EU national? I don't mind if we register someone like Bulgaria. Perhaps that is even the existing legislation. My current knowledge of the existing legislation is that in the case of a Bulgarian it says "EU national'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u402	I suppose the Prime Minister has come to the end of his introduction...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u403	No, I haven't answered a question yet. Yeah, introduction. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u404	Introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u405	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u406	Exactly, then I've got it sharp. I just wanted to get back to the lessons the Prime Minister learned. One of the things that he said is that I hope I quote him correctly, but I think it is actually something: there is not enough search for alternatives to that supplementing system. Now we have put in place alternatives to the Labour Party, the Christian Union, D66, GroenLinks, all kinds of parties in our own contribution, for example for child care: fund that now public, demolish that market operation, ensure that there is quality for all children in this country. The Prime Minister himself didn't look enough. We did. How does he look at the alternatives that we are proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u407	I can only give a party political opinion on this, not on behalf of the cabinet. But that's what I want to do if that's the question. Again, the lesson I am taking is that the surcharge system is far too complex, that we have known this for years, that attempts have been made and stranded over and over again, also by the previous cabinet. That's what I'm charging myself for. That must therefore be tackled firmly. There will soon be a debate, I think, with Alexandra van Huffelen on the basis of extensive official explorations with options for the future. That also helps with the next formation. I'm gonna go see what I find, and I'm not gonna be Prime Minister for a while. I think you can probably only solve this with at least an increase in the minimum wage. This will be necessary because of the low minimum wage in the Netherlands. Wages are low in the Netherlands anyway, compared to those in the rest of Europe, due to years of wage moderation. It has often had advantages for our economy, but I was glad that we saw a sharp wage increase of around 3% in the Netherlands last year. I therefore believe that an increase in the minimum wage is necessary. That will reduce part of the supplement problem, but that is far from solving it. Then you have to start prioritizing. I think you will first have to look at the childcare allowance, and probably also at the rent allowance. I would like to have a separate debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the healthcare allowance. The implementation of this is, of course, much simpler and simpler. In addition, this is your income, so you get the health allowance. There are a lot of people who get that care allowance; I thought 6 million or 7 million people. But that supplement is, of course, much simpler in its implementation than that very complex childcare allowance and the to some extent complex rent allowance. But here Mark Rutte speaks and here the Dutch Prime Minister does not speak on behalf of the cabinet, because we do not think this is our job as a outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u408	I actually like this Mark Rutte. An increase in the minimum wage in a few steps to €14; we all want that by now. So thank you for the reflection. I would like to say to the Prime Minister, but also to Mark Rutte: look seriously with us now at our proposals for that care allowance indeed, but also for the public funding of childcare. This will make it simpler and more accessible. Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the Prime Minister is taking this lesson and that he is also moving a little more to the left of the right. At least that's where I want him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u409	I don't know if it's left. I wasn't really seen as a left here tonight by Mr Jetten. By the way, the VVD was in the 2006 election programme for free childcare. We gave up on that later, for all kinds of reasons. It is ultimately also a matter of making choices in scarcity. So I am also curious to see where the whole Labour Party programme will cut costs, because, of course, we are also dealing with sustainable public finances, just to keep a right-wing story. Good. I've got two stacks here, Mr. Chairman. But I think they'll be able to do it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u410	Yes, because you've also had a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u411	They can be quick if the Chamber also allows me not to go into everything very extensively, with a lot of interruptions. That's the way it goes all the time. I'm gonna go through it real quick. There has been talk of the government commissioner. I can now have a whole debate on this, but I can also say, Mr President, that this also comes back to the work on all the issues that also have to do with the mandate of that government Commissioner. This comes back to the drafting of the proposals contained in last Friday's letter. I should like to take this into account the suggestions made by Mr Omtzigt, because I think they are sensible. I see Mr Omtzigt walking forward. Then it gets a little later; I don't mind. I slept well last night, so we'll take our time. So I will go into more detail about Mr Omtzit's questions about the Commissioner for Government. It will work, under the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, to put the information system in order and take responsibility for the implementation of the generic action plan to improve the information system. That is one of the main points of action. Indeed, the government Commissioner (he/she) will also address departments in the way they implement these plans, and recommendations will be made to the government in an authoritative manner. The precise implementation of the task still needs to take shape from the Home Office, but I can imagine that he will also look at what matters and information should be kept. Mr Omtzigt also asked another question about the legal advice that can be obtained. He said, "Do we get to see that too?" I think we need to talk about this, because I think that giving such an opinion in its entirety is complicated. Because then the ruler will eventually have to explain why not. And if you do, you're probably gonna give away information again. So I understand the question and I think it is real, but I also think the way in which it hangs is connected with the way in which we precisely ensure that there can no longer be any discussion about the provision of documents in the future, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u412	Do you have any questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u413	No, no, I still have a lot of them, but I have to answer them one at a time. I haven't actually answered a question; I can't help it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u414	At this point, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u415	On this point, I would really like to insist that we at least... Look, if there are a lot of substantive things in that opinion, then I understand that they are not fully communicated. But I would like to have the opinion, yes or no, with a reasoning about that piece here. What the government is proposing here is Article 68. We want a piece. Then the cabinet decides, but then there comes a separate legal advice. If the cabinet says yes, then that legal advice doesn't matter very much, we know how that works. But when the cabinet refuses...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u416	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u417	...I'd like to receive a statement of reasons, otherwise we won't have much use for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u418	I understand. Only, I really need to tune this in, because I understand that there are legal hooks and eyes on it. I understand the principle and I also understand what Mr Omtzigt is saying. I understand that, if you have to consider why the information is refused, that information will also come out in part. It's complicated. So we need to find a way to provide that justification without that factual information coming out itself, if at some point that would harm the interest of the State. That can no longer be the personal policy ideas of officials, because we are going to delete them as an exception, as we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u419	That's right. That's right. That's right. Good. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u420	The Prime Minister has already said something about the issue of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u421	I still have a lot of questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u422	Yes. Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u423	Maybe at that point. This has been in the debate. Mr Van der Staaij asked how to prevent a flood of information. That was my concern in providing all those slides from the Cat House. I think that's going well. There's gonna be a lot more information. Then maybe we can cut back on Wob officials too. They're gonna do other things. So I'm not so worried about that, honestly. I am not so concerned either, I say to Mr Van der Staaij, that it leads to a paradoxically different attitude on the part of civil servants. It also has to do with what I said at the press conference on Friday when the cabinet resigned. We must also discuss how we protect civil servants, that we keep them whole and that they do not feel like they are suddenly getting into the wind. That comes back to Mr Dijkhoff's question. He said: then perhaps officials will have the need to answer for themselves. That's true. It does not fit, he rightly said, in the system of ministerial responsibility that officials are publicly accountable, because the minister is responsible for the officials. We have to deal with that very well and respect each other's roles. The cabinet has updated the ukaze-Kok one or two years ago in such a way that it is much easier to have contact with MPs and to make expertise usable and accessible. There are also more technical briefings. Actual information is shared. All this happened before Friday, so that is still separate from last Friday's movement. Indeed, that in turn requires the involvement of officials and politicians, but you can actually see it to some extent in the technical briefings on corona. These are, of course, not officials of the policy departments, but people who are at a greater distance from them. On average, there is also very sharp talk, but also respect for the position of these experts, which is different from the position of the ministers who then hold the substantive debate here. So my experience is that we can handle that very well in practice too. I would rather have a little accident here and there, then we repair each other, then we burn everything down in advance, because then we don't have the openness we want. Because a lot of questions about that part of the letter have already been dealt with in the debate, I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question has also been answered. It was about Mr Omtzigt's question. I just answered that. And we've made agreements about how we're gonna do it. Maybe finally, the Woo, the Act of Open Government. We are going to take one more look at the motions and amendments on them. That was a question from... poo, someone; I don't know who. During the debate on the novelle at the Woo, the Minister for the Interior promised a letter on the appreciation of the amendment tabled by Member Van der Molen on personal policy ideas. It will be sent to the Chamber before the votes. New amendments have also been tabled. So there's gonna be another letter. We're definitely gonna do that. Mr. Chairman. That in response to what had not yet been discussed in the previous interruptions about that part of the cabinet response on openness. Then I have a few loose questions after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u424	About the Open Government Act. We're going to vote on that tomorrow. I can't believe you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u425	Yeah, sure. I understood that, at least before that vote, a letter was promised by the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u426	Yeah, I'm fine. I have Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Azarkan. I saw Mr Azarkan do this. I understand you have a very short question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u427	Still, about that nationality. I feel a little Columbo. I have the feeling that the Minister has the idea: I want to get out of there and I want to give that up to Mrs Van Huffelen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u428	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u429	The Minister indicated that double nationality was not used as a selection rule for supplements. But wasn't that also used in 2012 and 2015 within the Tax Administration for income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u430	I really don't know. You really should ask Mrs Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u431	You don't know that. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u432	I really don't know. At least I don't have it ready here. Then I'd have to read all over myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u433	Can I get that from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u434	What I have said is that nationality has been illegal, namely that dual nationality has been incorporated into the systems. That's what the AP established.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u435	That's something else. There will probably be a further investigation and there may also be a fine, but that is not what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u436	No, but I really don't know the other thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u437	My question is whether double nationality was used as a selection criterion for the Tax Administration, not for the surcharges, between 2012 and 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u438	Then perhaps you could ask that there. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u439	Sorry. I'm fired. I'm really out of here. I don't know. Mrs. Van Huffelen is here. You heard the last question, didn't you, Alexandra?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u440	I have one more point about these personal policy ideas. That from now on they will also come as underlying pieces towards the Chamber. We have already been reminded of this. I would like to draw your attention to the opinion of the Council of State on ministerial responsibility and other signals, as expressed in the NRC today. Are they prepared to argue in the same way if they do not actually enjoy that protection anymore? Once again, support for the cabinet line, but how can we prevent it from having the wrong consequences? How do we protect these civil servants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u441	I can also say once that this is primarily a task for Members of Parliament. 'Cause what could happen? It will happen once in this new line that something comes out of it, a sigh of an official or an opinion of an official who is members of parliament say: well, is that the way it works in that department? I assume that we will then be allowed to make the name of the officials invisible, because we do not have to bring them out. But you'll see that there are official things that you think have been said: yes, how do we feel about that? The only way to make this a success is for civil servants not to have an unfortunate choice of words afterwards and for us to accept that a dreamed solution will not always prove to be the real solution. But you can see that by now in those slides from the Catshouse. They will be stacks that we send every two weeks on Tuesday with the letter from Minister De Jonge about the corona update. There are all kinds of policy variants in that too. You will see them all again tomorrow or next week. Yeah, that's actually good, too. Then you say, "Oh, that's what we've been looking at. And: oh, that option was also on the table. Yeah, that's right, that's what we've been looking at, that's what's been on the table. I believe that this is also part of a mature democracy. My thinking has also moved on that point, namely that you do so from the sketching of dilemmas and the different policy options, but also with the underlying pieces of what has then been dealt with. What's against that, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u442	I think those Cathouse pieces are a good example. There you see different options, with advantages and disadvantages. But that is something other than personal policy ideas of officials, which the Prime Minister quite rightly said later: how is this handled? I am concerned about how, on the one hand, we can increase this openness but, on the other hand, we can also give protection to people who cannot defend themselves in the Chamber or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u443	Agreed. That's Dijkhoff's point. So this isn't gonna work either. Because if one day there are pieces coming to the Chamber in which something is said "oh, what did that official propose?" I can't forbid them, but if that happens every time, there may be a chance that civil servants will go into their shell and think: let's write things down more carefully. But let's deal with that a little maturely and say: interesting. In the end, a political decision has been made. That minister is standing here defending that political decision, and you will have an idea of what options have been on the table. What's against that? In the end, the Minister defends the political decision and the choice that has been made. Then perhaps he can say: yes, that's right; that and that option I've looked at, I haven't weighed that suggestion at all, but it's official. That's fine, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u444	But then my question is whether the effects are being monitored, including the unintended ones. Is that being evaluated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u445	Of course, we have to work it out completely with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u446	It should not lead to a reduction of contradiction. They shouldn't get in their shell because it can turn against them differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u447	Yeah, that's what I said at the press conference on Friday: you need to see how you keep officials whole. Then a journalist wrote: you see, Rutte doesn't mean it at all, because he's gonna come up with another way. No, that's exactly this discussion. Give it to me, but don't give it to me. Actually, that's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u448	I think there is a more fundamental problem. We are now receiving letters from 80 pages about the corona approach. Yes, we are getting all the documents sent. We have now received the file that Mr Marijnissen showed us. I mean, that's just a bunch of distrust. That's the distrust of the Chamber: do we get it if we ask? Isn't there something behind this? Will there really be an answer when I ask a question or is there endless reference to the proverbial question 8, even apart from the case? That's what's behind it. That is much more a political-cultural problem, also from the cabinet side. When a question is asked, officials seem to have been trained to give or give a lot of information or to answer very evasively. Members of Parliament then feel that they are receiving an answer, but that it is not really an answer. Isn't that much more fundamental than saying with a 1,000-page suit that we share everything and that the Chamber gets everything? I'll be sitting here reading paperwork all day, but I haven't moved on yet. It is about confidence that there will be a serious answer when we ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u449	Yes, although I do not have any strong indications that my discussion with Omtzigt on the conclusions of the committee on this particular point has taken place for political reasons. It did happen that things weren't provided. Last night's file is so thick because 433 questions were asked by the Chamber on Monday 4 January or Tuesday 5 January. Officials worked on this day and night. That was done yesterday afternoon and then it was sent to the Chamber. That's late, but that's not to harass the Chamber. Sorry, but 433 questions will be a large package and that must also be done carefully to inform the Chamber properly. Of course, on this culture phenomenon we must always be sharp, all of us, but misinformation of the Chamber is also a mortal sin. I don't think officials have any interest in doing that either. I would also like to avoid making very general statements that none of this is happening. I'm sure it'll happen. I can't guarantee that it isn't, but I don't want to give the impression here that officials are trying to cover up the truth all day long. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u450	Those 433 questions had a run-in. We have seen Mr Omtzigt stomping at the interrupting microphone: "I've asked so many times and I don't get it. I know those memo-Palms are there, but it's not shared." I myself have a rather vivid memory of the receipt affair, which we have also had several debates on. We asked questions each time and got answers, but we also had the feeling that we had to wait for a journalist to reveal or ask if a whistleblower shared something, so we would only get the answer in the end. That's frustrating.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u451	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u452	That's the axe at the root of the trust that should exist between Chamber and Cabinet. If we ask a question, everything must be done to simply share decent information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u453	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u454	Then it can be bothersome or difficult and you can have a difficult debate about it, but it's much more annoying to ask through until something comes up that was already there when you asked the first question. That leads to 433 questions and to the files that are of no use to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u455	Once, once, once, once. I can only say that the cabinet sees it as its duty to inform the Chamber properly and if that culture were there, it would not strengthen it. That's all I can say. The cabinet sees it as its task to answer questions honestly. I believe that the radical openness we are now showing in the letter, also in the light of everything that has happened over the last few months and the discussions in the cabinet, will help to do so. I'm really convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u456	My last question. I'm kind of looking for a way to put it right. It threatens to go very high and then the Prime Minister says: of course there must be openness and honesty. But there's a lot of frustration behind this, even in this case. It's been so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u457	That's why I apologize to Omtzig.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u458	We were just standing here. We had the Ombudsman's report. In June 2019 we could have intervened earlier. Maybe then we could've done better. If the information between Cabinet and Chamber is more secure, based on trust, more honest, then we don't need more information, we don't need information, but then we need the right information. Then it threatens to go high. There really is frustration in myself when civil servants are trained to keep the minister out of the wind, just to give certain information and to put it in a way that doesn't allow them to be caught, so that questions are actually answered, but no honest answer is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u459	I think Wopke can testify to that. We had a whole discussion in the cabinet about this, also on the basis of Grapperhaus who said at one point: 'I have now had questions from the Chamber. I'm just gonna share all that." Those were also things that were a bit on the edge of personal policy ideas, et cetera. Then we said, okay, you know, if that's what you think, sure, do it. So we're having that discussion with each other, too. That is also a task the Council of Ministers has to keep each other on a tight leash and make sure that you try to do it fairly and fairly. But if things don't reach official or political leadership, it's complicated. That is also one of the frustrations with this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u460	Good. From my position as President, this is not new. We've also discussed it before, and letters have also been written about it. Let me say that separately from the child care allowance dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u461	Absolutely. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u462	I'm triggered by the phrase "if that culture existed." Let me just look into what happened in this file. We've got CAF 11. Then we ask the first question. That question was addressed to Secretary of State Wiebes. He's been remembered a few times today. Then we think it's only CAF 11. That response was extremely unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u463	Question 15 from 2017, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u464	But then I spent a year and a half with Mrs Leijten and Mrs Lodders to get the other CAF reports. 'Cause we can't know if it's one by accident... It may be that something went wrong at CAF 11 that went well in all other cases. So we ask: can we have the CAF reports? The CAF reports have been withheld for a year and a half. That's why I read that e-mail to AZ. Then Mrs Leijten tries to get everything over o/gs. That information is withheld from the Chamber for a year while there are notes. So these aren't policy ideas or things that are emailed between officials, they're the established notes on what happened. Then the memo-Palms. We don't get it for three years. And when we get it, of course, we get it neatly lacquered with the crucial passages. We're constantly getting lacquered pieces, like these kind of pieces. This time it's nice white, so I can't show it as nice as when it would be black. But the picture is clear, I think. It's not: if this happened. This has been happening for four years. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that this has been happening for four years? Does the Prime Minister recognise that Mr Segers is therefore quite right? We are not waiting for every e-mail and every piece that is written. We sometimes ask for very specific information. Sometimes we do that a second time. That's not a big deal, I'm telling you. Then let's really get together and get it. If we don't get it, there should be a procedure, as you just suggested, with which we'll get it. Surely you agree that this has not gone well for four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u465	That's right, once, specifically about that CAF case AZ had no involvement in. But we were asked what happened in March 2019 with the other CAF cases. That answer, about what went wrong and how it did, will be shared with you by Mrs Van Huffelen. I agree. That is why I say that information must go to the official summit. It should never be the case that Article 11 of the Wob is used not to provide things, if it had happened. The information system is just out of order. In this context, what the committee has finally found is being created. This is also what the cabinet wrote in last Friday's letter: "The report of the POK shows that the information system and the provision of information was inadequate"................................................................................................................................................................................ So that has to change. This is what we want. We don't want this anymore. This must not happen again, especially if there are consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u466	I understand that, but in the CAF evaluations, it was also deliberately refused four times in a row. Those pieces were there. Those were not personal policy ideas. We simply asked: give us the evaluations of the projects so that we can form an idea about them. It is precisely this that creates relaxation. 'Cause I get... I don't even want to see every e-mail between officials. Imagine that. I would not want my own group to see every e-mail being made public to my staff. I get that. But when I write an official piece, it's public. If there is relaxation, I think we are a lot further than a very long discussion about personal policy ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u467	I agree with that, but specifically on this CAF case, I would ask Mr Omtzigt to allow Mrs Van Huffelen to say a little more on that issue of March 2019. I'm just not expert on that. I have an answer here, but as soon as Mr Omtzigt asks a question, I do not know what else is going on. That's real finance; I just really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u468	Then a slightly different but related question, because the Prime Minister started in June 2019. Earlier in the debate, he said that in June 2019 the cabinet was fully aware of what was going on. That was not fully communicated to the Chamber, I can assure you, in the debate in July 2019. In fact, it went wrong. In June 2019, it became clear internally, according to the documents, that more than 20,000 families were in trouble. Why didn't anyone in the cabinet stop the enforcement at that time? That it wouldn't be solved at once, we understand, but there was panic, there was a special crisis team and there were big meetings at the Treasury Department. The Prime Minister interfered. Last night's factsheet shows that it was discussed four times in the Council of Ministers in June. Why all this focus on "how do we keep the cabinet going?" And wasn't there anyone who said, emergency button, stop the recovery?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u469	I really don't know. I really need to put that down at Hoekstra or Van Huffelen. I only know, sincerely, that Menno Snel is the cabinet you see in the documents that were provided yesterday, and also in the official notes of AZ that are about the letter of office sent on the occasion of that Council of Ministers, I say from my mind, at the beginning of June 2019 has updated and said: boys, it's all much worse. But I can't say ad libidem here right now, without knowing exactly why emergency buttons haven't been pressed. I understand that question, but allow me to put it with the rulers of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u470	No. I deliberately ask the Prime Minister, because it was discussed in the Council of Ministers four times in a row. If the 16 ministers of this country are sitting together and realize that 20 000 people are in trouble because they are being evicted from their homes by coercion, are being kicked out of cars, and that there are serious doubts about legality, can the Prime Minister give a reflection on how it is that no one in the official summit, no one in the cabinet, says: will we do anything for these parents? Everything is aimed at keeping the Secretary of State of Finance in the saddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u471	Then I really need to re-ready for that question. I will come back to that in the second term. I don't want to do that freestyling right now. I'll come back to it in the second term if he wants to hear it from me. Perhaps the rulers of finance can already say something about it in their term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u472	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u473	Have I talked to any parents? That was a question from Mr Omtzigt. Hoekstra and I have, as you know, spoken with the parents in Rijswijk. After that, that type of meeting by corona was tricky. I've, like I said, had a few conversations with small groups of parents. I have a very soon meeting with Mrs Van Huffelen with the parents who have said that we should resign. Not to say that we do not have to resign, we have already resigned, but to talk to them about their concerns in substance. We also have a deal with Alexandra van Huffelen, who has a lot of these conversations, that we can see where I can hook up. So I'm gonna go through with it, too. The next conversation is scheduled for at least the end of January. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions about where the government was acting illegally. As far as the IRS is concerned, Alexandra van Huffelen will say something about that. Let me say the following myself. It's not a question we can answer conclusively here. An exhaustive list is not to be made. The reports of the Donner Committee and the Van Dam Committee do mention a number of aspects: the group termination of the childcare allowance and the sharing of all documents with the judge. In addition, in the file, we are dealing with acts that have long been considered legitimate by the highest administrative judge, but have been found to be unlawful following judgments by the same judge because of the social signals about the effects of the legislation. We haven't taken up enough of them, and we haven't learned from what went wrong. In the cabinet response, we have included in detail the intentions to prevent it from happening again. I promised Mr Omtzigt that we would come back to that. It is crucial to recognise, recognise and monitor the signals more widely within the government. Once again, Secretary of State Van Huffelen will be addressing the Tax Administration in particular. The next question has now been dealt with in the interruptions. Mr Jetten said that access to legal protection should be much better. We announced in the response how we are going to improve the legal protection in administrative law. In doing so, we aim to resolve disputes at an early stage and avoid misunderstandings, including by providing more opportunities for the administrative body through the general principles of good governance and thus also by providing more tailor-made work, and by establishing a low-threshold, non-justified, free-of-charge full review of the decision at the stage of objection. As regards the scope for the judiciary to pass on the uncomfortable functioning of laws in practice to the Chamber, I would like to say that the judge is, of course, independent, but he is bound by law and law and that he speaks in principle through his judgments. However, the Council of Justice advises the legislator on proposed legislation. That is, of course, in advance, but the judicial authorities are also often involved in subsequent legislative assessments. So there are other systems to do so. I can still report that the Vice-President of the Council of State informed me that within the Council of State, he wrote to me this evening a reflection project for administrative justice, with a heavy external guidance committee, also following the report of the Van Dam Committee. The separation of the Administrative Court and the Advisory Section has, of course, been the subject of discussion and has already been the subject of governmental agreements. We do not see any reason in this report to review the organisation of administrative justice, but rather to take other measures, for example Mr Omtzigt asked for the reform of administrative law, because we see this need. We also write about it in the letter: how is it best, in the General Administrative Law Act, in the Sectoral Law or both? In doing so, the general principles of good governance for the government will have to be guiding. Not automatically apply "line is rule," but see if there is room for customization. Last Friday, 15 January, the Minister for the Interior also sent two investigations to the Chamber containing building blocks for such a reform. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about implementation, about the role of independent administrative bodies. Self-employed administrative bodies are, of course, self-employed on the basis of their legal basis. We do not want to change that, but it is important that the exchange of information between Zbos and the Ministry and the Chamber is improved. I just talked about that. In fact, that was the fate between implementation and policy that Mr Omtzig is talking about and I spoke earlier this evening. Then I'll take a look at the other questions. One final question I have to ask is the desirability of a state commission on the rule of law. Various investigations and other initiatives are under way in the field of the rule of law. The Council of State also pays attention to this in the 2019 Annual Report. The Public Administration Council gave its opinion on the rule of law in spring 2020. In implementation of the Rosenmöller motion of 23 October 2019, an independent investigation is currently being carried out into the possibilities and conditions under which continuity in the financing of the rule of law can be better ensured and the rule of law can be strengthened sustainably. That investigation is expected to be completed in March 2021. All these documents call for a reaction from the Cabinet and then for a debate between the Cabinet and the Chamber. Mr President, I believe that I have done justice to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u474	That's good. I shall go first to Mrs Ouwehand and then to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u475	I asked two more questions. The first question was: does the Prime Minister recognise that there is institutional racism in the Netherlands? The second question was about the directors saying that it is very important that the government recognizes formal liability for the damage suffered and the responsibility for repairing it. My question was whether the cabinet would do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u476	I really want to pass on that second question to Mrs Van Huffelen, who has been fully prepared for it. As far as the first question is concerned, we will have that state committee in a moment. There will certainly be institutional racism in the Netherlands, absolutely. But to say in a general sense... That is such a general statement, but there will certainly be institutions where that plays. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u477	The Tax Administration, and with it the government, held back documents at the courthouse, was reflected in internal policy instructions. I would like to have the Prime Minister's opinion on this, and I would like to know whether that has been corrected in the cases which the government knows she has withheld from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u478	Frankly, we have placed this question in the division of roles with Alexandra van Huffelen, so she has the answers. May I ask Mr Omtzigt to see if he is satisfied with that immediately. If not, of course I am always prepared to go into that further. But I just don't have that ready right now, so I don't know all the details of that. I have heard that question, but we are, of course, with a delegation from the Cabinet, and this question is so specific and serious, I understand that I do not want to make a general statement on it now without knowing the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u479	Then I'll wait. You have had discussions with the President of the Chamber on Rule 68, and I also think that there should be coordination. I had asked to say one thing: the letter of 2002 sent by Minister De Vries to the First Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u480	I'm gonna read it. I don't know him, but I'm gonna read him. I promise. And we are going to involve them in the implementation of the chapter in the letter on openness. But I don't know the contents of that letter right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u481	If you simply carry it out, that's just the policy that was in place at the time, then we'll just be there in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u482	So it belongs to then Minister De Vries of the Interior. I'm gonna read that letter and at least get involved. I hear Mr Omtzigt's suggestion that he should just take over, but I have to read him first to see if I agree with him. But at least we're gonna get him involved and react to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u483	Thank you. There have been letters sent earlier by this cabinet that have referred to it, but that you do not have all the letters ready, I understand very well. But that would be it. And then I hope that, when you come back to it, you will continue to make a clear distinction, and I will say to you, through the President, between the Wob and Rule 68. Article 68 deals with the Chamber which controls the government. It is the cornerstone of our parliamentary control. The Wob is for every citizen of this country. We regard them as high, but as a chamber we can do just a little more. By constantly referring to the rules in the Wob, I think you are failing Article 68 of the Constitution. As Members of Parliament, we can also ask for information that is not in a document. Then the document must be made. The ground for refusal "interest of the State' is somewhat narrower than the grounds for refusal under the Wob. I hope that this is a distinction that will continue to be made. Right now, I'm seeing all these pieces painted towards the Chamber, with Wob-grounds. I just don't think it's right. There's nothing wrong with painting. Names can be omitted. Really, I get that. But please note that Article 68 goes further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u484	At the heart is the irritation I think in the personal policy concepts referred to in Article 11 of the Wob and in how it works in the interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution. You've seen that since Kok. It was reconfirmed in 2016, and that is why I am pleased that we have now said that we are deleting that land. I believe that this problem has really been solved. In general terms, of course, I agree with Mr Omtzig that the Constitution is always ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u485	Thank you. Then we'll just wait for the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u486	I am not at the debate for five minutes just to hear what we have to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u487	That's good. Then we'll just wait a minute. Let me see who the next speaker is on behalf of the cabinet. That's the Minister of Finance. I'll give you the floor in a minute, but we'll wait for the cleaning. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u488	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I can start by repeating what I said to the Van Dam Committee earlier. In this dossier, thousands of parents, thousands of Dutch people, our people, have come under the wheels of the government in a merciless and totally unearned manner. That is, and I think that is downright horrible. The task now is to correct as well and as angry as that can be, which has gone so thoroughly wrong, first and foremost for the parents. By compensation, by help and by recognition. And also wider in the area of openness. That is explained in the letter from the Secretary of State. That is actually what the debate is about today. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to repeat what I said to the Van Dam committee about responsibility. Of course I'm co-responsible. I feel and am ultimately responsible for the Ministry of Finance. For the past year I have often thought: had we, had I, seen many things before. I wish I'd asked for more. Perhaps the most important lesson for myself is: I should have spoken with the parents sooner. That was very intrusive. It was for me and I also think for many others a key moment in understanding what was really going on. Mr. Chairman. I would like to repeat briefly that in my conviction, as I said to the Van Dam Committee, we would not have had this debate without the persistence of a few journalists, a few lawyers and a few MPs. It is essential that the information has come out, because that enables us to start restoring the broken trust. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions that have been asked to me. The Prime Minister has already said a few things about it, but they were about discrimination and racism. Mrs Ploumen referred to it. Mr Jetten asked about it. Perhaps you would allow me to give a more detailed answer and go back to a few key moments in this dossier. It started in Oral Question Time of 21 May 2019. I replaced the Secretary of State for Finance. I was perfectly clear at the time, and I would like to repeat that today. The cabinet rejects any form of ethnic profiling. Mrs Ploumen's question was: what did you do with it? When I returned to the Ministry, I was perfectly clear on the assignment to the Tax Administration. I remember specifically the discussion with the Secretary-General about fully cooperating in the investigation of the Personal Data Authority and simply finding out very well how nationality is used in the Tax Administration, at Fees. The Secretary of State could therefore send a letter with a further explanation. Later in 2019, the Secretary of State decided to take the criterion "nationality' out of those so-called risk selection models. It is good that we now know and see what role discrimination has played in the recovery process. In addition, the Tax Administration and Customs will identify whether there is a legal basis for the use of nationality. That's also the discussion we just had. The Secretary of State may be able to say more about it later. If things weren't right, data would have to be deleted there too. Mr. Chairman. An advance has just been made on the conclusions of the Personal Data Authority. The Prime Minister has already said most of this. He already mentioned that in the case of Increases, he quoted the AP....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are as a ministry awaiting the sanction that the authority will impose on us. We will, of course, accept it. Mr. Chairman. Then the second piece: the so-called second opinion and the declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u489	Mrs Ploumen has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u490	Thank you to the Minister for that answer. If I understand him correctly, he is now making it possible for parents, together with the Human Rights College, to receive satisfaction and to hear their complaint. But that's a reversal of reality, isn't it? When you do business with the government, you assume that there is no institutional racism, you assume that there is no ethnic profile. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. That must be the approach and not repair when it happens and therefore accept that it happens. No, we have to make sure it never happens again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u491	I very much agree with Mrs Ploumen, of course. Neither one of the directors nor any of the people in the official summit can or will accept this. What we then tried to do in this file is to figure out the various things that came to our attention as well as possible, also to objectify what was going on. That is precisely why we have said: we have to put that question to the AP. This has also been the reason for the Secretary of State to ask an independent committee for the wider debate: how should we reflect on our actions? That's why... I almost got there. It is, of course, a far-reaching step, but we have asked an external lawyer to advise us on any criminal offences. That then led to that declaration. So I would certainly not like to give the impression that this is the only thing, but this was part of the recommendations and we have accepted them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u492	I would like to ask the Minister the following question. He has just declared in the Chamber that this is unacceptable. When and in what way did he also send that message directly to the employees of the Tax Administration? Did he talk to them in person? It is clear that this is totally unacceptable. And once again, helping people to get their rights right is fine, but I mean, we shouldn't even want to end up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u493	Much more has happened, of course, and I hope I can explain this in the rest of my reply. But specifically, I also indicated to the Van Dam committee that I was not satisfied with the provision of information to the Secretary of State in the preparation for the debate and Question Time that I took over from him. I have then already said, but also after I had been in the Chamber, to the officials present there that... I remember specifically the conversation I had with the Secretary-General and I said to him: "Listen, this support from the Secretary of State was not adequate. He deserves better information, because that also enables him to better inform the Chamber. And what's going on here with regard to ethnic profiling, I just want to get to the bottom of it." The Secretary of State also agreed with this and he started working on it when he was back from abroad. That's why I replaced him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u494	Let us note that, above all, people, citizens, deserve that they are not ethnically profiled and that there is no institutional racism. That is the crux of the matter. With all due respect to all State Secretarys and Ministers, they also deserve good information, but the core is: citizens deserve to be treated fairly and equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u495	I can only very much agree with that. It is not for nothing that our Constitution starts with this: all those who are in the Netherlands will be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u496	I don't quite get it anymore. The Prime Minister agreed with me personally. He referred to Mrs Van Huffelen for an answer and now the Minister is suddenly discussing the subject. I would therefore like to ask him: what is discriminatory about or why is ethnic profiling, in my opinion, not both of them if you register the nationality of everyone and then use it only when you see that a certain nationality is overly fraudulent? I believe that this is how we found out about Bulgarian fraud. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u497	I have always understood that page 1, paragraph 1 of the Directory is about not keeping private views. That is true, I think, especially here in the plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u498	It's about yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u499	But I don't think private opinions are relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u500	I ask you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u501	I am here as Minister of Finance, but I still have to explain what the cabinet thinks. By the way, I very much underline that ethnic profiling should not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u502	That is not the beginning of an answer. Then just say, "I don't know anything about it." Say, "I don't know." But don't give me that bullshit answer. I'm asking for your opinion as a minister. I never asked you a personal question. I just said that's what the Prime Minister said. As a minister, I ask you what is discriminatory about the registration of nationality by the tax authorities, the municipalities or the UWV of everyone, including the Dutch. What the hell is discriminatory about that? Then you must explain to me what is discriminatory about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u503	I think that is at the heart of this dossier. The essence of this file is that you can't profile ethnically. You can register one nationality. So you cannot register another nationality and then use it to apply selection. That's the heart of this file. That is not my view, but that is a view of the Personal Data Authority. He has said that this cannot be done, because this then leads to discriminatory acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u504	They didn't say that at all. They have said: the distinction between Dutch and non-Dutch should not be used in general as a kind of selection criterion. That's what happened, and maybe that's not good. But that's not my question. My question is... or say you look it up, because you just don't answer. So I'm making a new proposal. I'm not saying what happened at your department is good. So I'm not saying the authority is wrong either. I'm making another, new proposal. That is not that a distinction is made between Dutch and non-Dutch, but that we register the nationality of everyone, as we did until 2014. Also from me, also from a Dutchman, from a Belgian, from everyone. There's nothing discriminatory about that. This is not then used in general, but if you see that, as we have seen in the Bulgarians in the past, excessive, disproportionate fraud occurs, you use it as a criterion to see whether we should not even look further. That's for a reason. Then you don't treat equal cases differently, because if there is more fraud, that's an uneven case. Isn't that a system to find out about fraud? If you don't, you're tying up the fraudsters, like I said in my first term, right their hands behind their backs? You cannot tell me that is discriminatory, because it is not. It is a new proposal and I would like to know how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u505	Yet step by step, because this is in the color bath of what the authority has said. Mr Wilders says: that may not have been quite right. No, it's different. It is said that there were discriminatory processing operations. That's what happened. That's not something that wasn't quite right. There was something that just wasn't right. That's what the Dutch Data Protection Authority says. And what was it about? It was a list in which and which nationality one had in the first place, namely the Dutch, and then it was kept up to date which nationality one had. Those two things were kept up. Then the question is: was that used? But the Personal Data Authority says in that report, at least in my reminder, that keeping those two lists alone is not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u506	For the sixth time, Mr. Chairman. I've been standing here for a long time because I can't get an answer. I'm making a new proposal, I say. Forget about what happened. I'm making a new proposal. As a member of parliament and as leader of a large opposition party, I am allowed to make a new proposal during this debate. My proposal now is to forget what happened. If that went wrong, it went wrong. Soit. But now I propose, and I have already said it twenty times, that everyone should register the nationality of the Dutch, Belgian, Moroccan, Swede, everyone; nothing discriminatory, a new proposal from the PVV, but not to use it further, so not to profile ethnically either. But the moment you see that this Swede or that Moroccan, or whatever nationality, is overly, overly fraudulent, you say: we're going to weigh that as an extra factor and we're going to take it with us. That's the fight against fraud. That's perfectly normal, isn't it? What's wrong with that? Could you respond to that proposal? It has nothing to do with the previous proposal; it is a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u507	I do not know whether Mr Wilders and I are going to solve this, because there are just specific rules about what you are allowed to register in a specific situation. The Prime Minister has just indicated that, for example, in the situation that someone wants to join the Dutch military service, you need to know what nationality that person has. Here it is, to my best knowledge, so that if someone did not have Dutch nationality, you would register another nationality or "EU citizen." The Secretary of State knows that better than I do. But this is different from what this is about. This is about whether you are allowed as a government to select and ask out the Dutch plus another nationality, and then the question is whether you can use it. The answer of the Personal Data Authority to both questions is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u508	But it is a new proposal that Mr Wilders is making. That's what you two disagree on, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u509	I just want a serious answer. Every time I say that, he refers to the Personal Data Authority. I am making a proposal which is different from what happened in the case of finance, which, by the way, is quite different from what happened in the case of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u510	We're gonna keep going around in the same circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u511	But then answer me. Then figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u512	Mr Wilders does not like the answer. That's different than I'm not answering. It's very simple. It is also what Article 1 of the Constitution says: you must treat equal cases equally. If there is an objectivable ground that allows you to treat cases differently, it is allowed. There are things you don't like when you're 17, but you do when you're 18. For example, there is an age at which you do receive AOW and an age at which you do not receive it. That's an objectivable ground. It's defined. But that doesn't play here. Mr Wilders asked: can you tell me in which cases you can register on nationality, also on specific nationality? The answer to that is, I think, very simple: that differs from one case to another. This will be different for the military service, for example, than for this case. Otherwise, I can't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u513	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u514	Finally, and then I'm done. This is an objectivable ground, because you use it for everyone and you only use it when you see it goes wrong with a nationality. That's objectivable. That's a reason. That is not ethnic profiling, and that is not discrimination. Fraud by a family from Groningen can also lead to more checks there. So that criterion is the same for everyone. What is discrimination? If you treat equal cases unequally. This proposal does not. I'll do it in a motion, but I don't like it. Again, it's not about not getting the answer I want. If the Minister says "Mr. Wilders, I understand your proposal, but I don't want it," I respect it. But he doesn't understand my proposal and doesn't bother to think about it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u515	I have tried to respond seriously in seven instances, but I think I have to refer to one of those seven answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u516	Keeping track of nationality, Swedish or Moroccan... I do wonder what you keep track of if someone does not have second nationality. How does that work? The Minister talked about how nationality works. I notice that he only specifically reads what the Dutch Data Protection Authority has written down. I understand that, because it is advised to be careful. I'm assuming there'll be more information on that. But I don't understand something. It has been said that keeping the information is distinguishable and that it is not objectivable. So that's wrong in itself. But it didn't lead to people being taken out. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u517	Very specifically, I really have to refer to the Secretary of State and possibly also to the other Secretary of State. Why? Because the tap on the fingers of the Personal Data Authority is about keeping those lists. I remember that was really a long time ago; I do not want to go on my own memory alone that these lists have not been used to run analyses in recent years. But I'm not sure, so I think it's wise to refer to the Secretary of State, because she knows better than I do. I would like to continue with the broader answer, because there is more to be said about racism and the issue of discrimination. Mr Jetten's and Mrs Ploumen's questions went in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u518	I got the impression that the Minister was really starting to talk about how second nationality worked out in the selection criteria. Then I ask questions about it and then he does the same thing as Rutte, which is to say: ask Secretary of State Van Huffelen. I just want it ready to go. Pretty much everyone I know from this file, there are a lot of names like Fatma, Janet and Mehmet. In one of the CAF cases, I also asked that question in one of my questions. 70% had a second nationality. It was so distinctive that when Donner's first report came out Menno Snel looked at someone in the room and said: I see there is also a duped parent. By the way, that was the journalist Lamyae of NRC. Apparently, the assumption is that these affected parents often have a non-Dutch origin. Can the Minister explain to me why this group is so heavily overrepresented?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u519	Let's get back to what Mr. Azarkan started. I'm referring to the file. The file holder, the one best able to answer the questions about what has been registered and how it has been used, is the Secretary of State or are the Secretary of State for Finance. I only thought it appropriate to answer Mrs Ploumen's question and Mr Jetten's question about what I did about it and not to refer it to the Secretary of State. So that I then have to make a pass at some point, is inevitable, I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u520	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u521	Clear. I am concerned about the responsibility of this minister. Last year, of course, when Mr Snel resigned, he interfered with this dossier for a very short period of time. I also told him: don't let the people down, so you keep meddling. Somehow I get the impression... I always want to believe this minister. He always glows at me that he's willing to handle it. Then, quite quickly, there was the idea that the files that would be dealt with would not really work, so he could not keep the promise of this minister at Christmas last year either. That was complicated. I have one question. When did the Minister take up the Ombudsman's report of August 2017 entitled No powerplay, but fair play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u522	But first, that first point, the CAF 11. Those days before Christmas, I did everything I could to ensure that that group of parents would get the file at the expense of just about everything. That was the expensive promise we made. I sat on top of that to make sure that would happen. My perception is that this has worked, apart from everything you would have liked to have done even more during that period. I think this is important to mark here anyway. And then perhaps Mr Azarkan can help me with what else he would like to know about me on this particular point. He had a second piece of a question, but then he'd have to help me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u523	This concerns the Ombudsman's report from 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u524	Yeah, the report. Apologies. That report is briefly mentioned on page 136, I believe, of the working papers I received as Minister of Finance. Half a page or so is described in an entry folder or an entry report of about 150 pages, I think. This is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of State. Later or something before that, Secretary of State Snel sent a letter to the Court that all the Ombudsman's recommendations were taken over, but it could also have been his predecessor. That report doesn't matter anymore at the time. That is something Snel, I think, rightly said in his interview: unintentional, unintentional and afterwards very sad 2018 has been a lost year, because it was hardly about it. That whole word "CAF" comes to a poll point in the ministerial staff once throughout 2018. That dossier is only starting to run................................................................................................................................................................................ But quite honestly, even then it is not clear how big it is. That only becomes clear with Donner 1 and even more with Donner 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u525	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u526	Yes, finally, but this is very important, because the Minister indicates that the recommendations have been followed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u527	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u528	I'd like to finish it anyway. The first serious reaction came nine months later. It came on May 15, 2018. That was a substantive reaction. It has not been said at all: we are going to implement the Ombudsman's opinions. One of these advices was: apologize and compensate these people. But I believe that until 4 June 2019, for almost two years, they have remained in their own right. So how can you say that the Ombudsman's opinions and conclusions have been implemented, when this case has been obstructed all along?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u529	No, I need to pull a few things apart. The report is mentioned in the report and a brief comment is made on the problem of supplements. I believe that this page also went to the Van Dam committee, but I think I can give it to the Chamber with great pleasure that anyone who reads it does not have the idea: wow, this is where the alarm bells go off. On the contrary, there is a fairly business-like explanation of the structure of the system. Two. I didn't say that my perception is that it's all performed perfectly. I only indicate that there has been a letter, I believe from the Secretary of State, but keep it to my advantage; it may have been an internal note. I think it was a letter from Secretary of State Wiebes or Secretary of State Rapidly to the Chamber, but that is really just a moment from the memory of a little longer ago, saying: we are taking over the Ombudsman's recommendations. The tragedy is, of course, that that did not happen, that that file actually goes into hibernation in 2018 and that hardly anything happens to it. Moreover, there is little attention to it during that period. Not only at the Ministry, but also in the Chamber and in the media it doesn't play. Of course, I have also read back: what was it about in the debates here in 2018 where the Tax Administration was concerned? It was about inheritance and gift, it was about IT, it was about humanization, it was about lack of management information. It was about all kinds of major structural problems, but part of the tragedy is that the childcare allowance does not actually occur. That doesn't go up until the end of 2018. In 2019, especially in May/June, the flame is in the pan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u530	Is it true that the Minister says that a letter has been sent to the Court that the Ombudsman's conclusions are being implemented and that they have subsequently gone into hibernation, that they have not been implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u531	It's said... I have to check that and then I'll come back to it in second term. I seem to recall that this is not in the transfer file, but that there is a document, either official or a document that has gone to the Court, stating the willingness to take over the Ombudsman's conclusions. So I understand that on the basis of that report, which one of the I think is mentioned as 80 subjects in that transfer file, nor for Secretary of State Snel and certainly not for me reason for an alarm bell. I can check that that was indeed a letter. Just keep that for the better, because that's based on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u532	Then you'll come back to that. Finalizing, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u533	Rounding up. The Ombudsman rarely advises to apologize to groups of citizens and to compensate. That's really exceptional. But the conclusions were really hard. The conclusions were that government action had put people in an impossible position. The conclusions of the Minister only need to read the first two pages, which I also read at the time, saying that the government does not comply with the General Administrative Law Act. If you do not deal with an objection within six weeks but leave citizens hanging for an average of 18 months, their lives cannot continue in the meantime. 'Cause then there's nothing. If the IRS hasn't responded, you can't go to court. In the meantime, you don't get any money. So for 18 months you can get your job... If you're a single mother... That is what Mr Marijnissen said. Those are the people who received relatively much money because they are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u534	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u535	In that report, the Ombudsman concludes quite firmly that, under the direction of this Minister and his Secretary of State, it will take 18 months instead of six weeks. Then you can't tell me the alarm bells didn't go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u536	The tragedy of this dossier is, of course, that you could have gotten a lot of the signals that we could have gotten in the ministry in all kinds of places in institutions, whether it was about the various governmental organisations, the police in all kinds of ways or the judiciary. There have been all kinds of signals about the hardness of the legislation, about not using discretionary powers, about paying back every euro you've ever received. There's been all kinds of signals like that. But also because they have always been sanctioned by legislation at the Council of State, where, of course, the Tax Administration has always been in agreement, that kind of alarm bells have not gone off, not even at the Ministry. That's extremely sad, but that didn't happen. That is, of course, the tragedy of this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u537	Then I'll go to Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u538	I think that is at the heart of one of the conclusions of the Van Dam Committee and one of the things that the Prime Minister has just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u539	Then I'll go to Mr. Clover. Yeah? Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u540	About the file and the alarm bells. If it says that 300 citizens have stopped the surcharges, then 166 submit an objection because they still dare and find a lawyer and 150 of them are awarded, then that is a scale that will then also rise via the line. Then you can't say: we have a case, we stopped it with 300 people and then it turns out very quickly that 150 parents were wrong. Those are numbers where something must have gone off an alarm bell, right? That's unprecedented, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u541	The former Secretary of State said the following, and I also said it during the hearing. The first time, at least with me, it becomes clear that there is something going on on the child care allowance file, is when dealing with the Council of State on I believe 28 April 2019. Then, by the way, I am at least with me, but I still do not think for many people how much misery is in sight. That is a correction, and we are going in another direction. Legally, it's called the Council of State. The Council of State decides to move from one direction to another. They say, "You may not be so hard on this case." Then the file goes on and it just turns out that a lot of things have gone wrong. That is where we are marking May and June with each other, but I think that when in May/June almost no one predicted the misery, not even in this house, but certainly not in the Ministry. How great the misery was is becoming more and more obvious step by step, with Donner 1 and then with Donner 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u542	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u543	Mr President, I have another tail. I owe it to Mr Jetten and Mrs Ploumen. Because I had arrived at that so-called second opinion. It might be good to mention that briefly. There was also a question in the Chamber at the time: what about possible criminal offences, especially in the area of discrimination? At that time, I repeatedly said in the Chamber that I had no reason to believe that criminal offences had been committed. But I also said, in the dialogue with the Chamber, that I thought it was so important to rule that out, that I also wanted to give the so-called second opinion that the Chamber asked for. Of course, that's not something you do lightly. Because it's quite a thing to do in the direction of its own official organization. We are talking about January 2020. Mr Bimond then went on. It concludes that there were suspicions of, among other things, professional discrimination. That was the reason for the two Secretary of State, of course in dialogue with me, to press charges. Of course, it has become clear in recent years how that report has been unpacked. Mr President, I have one final piece. Mrs Ploumen also asked: what else will happen and what else will I do? In addition to all the things I have already mentioned, so not exclusively, I think the following is extremely important. If you want to do something about combating institutional racism, not only do you have to act on signals, but you also have to talk about it, you have to ensure sufficient diversity, you have to train leaders to do so. And the subject of discrimination, as well as other undesirable forms of interaction, must be explicitly addressed. We do, among other things, in employee studies. When it comes to my own role, for example, this is something that I explicitly discussed when the new Secretary-General walked into the Ministry in the first quarter of 2020. Mr President, I have done it a little extensively, but I think I have answered the questions put by Mr Jetten and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u544	Are with that all the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u545	These were the answers to the questions that I believe were addressed to me, unless I failed Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u546	Okay. I would ask Members to ask short questions, because we still have two govern ments to answer. I know it's important, but... Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u547	Mr Omtzigt has put a justified question to the Prime Minister about a key moment, namely the Council of Ministers I believe 7 June. For the first time, it is clear in full terms what the damage is, and it becomes clear that it concerns more than 20,000 families. The Prime Minister made a rather obstinate reference to the directors of Finance. He said, "Well, no, then you should be with the directors of the Treasury." The question was: why wasn't the stop button pressed? That is why I am now asking the question that was actually put to the Prime Minister, now to Mr Hoekstra: why wasn't the stop button pressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u548	I think there are, certainly afterwards, several moments to name as tilting points, or whatever you would like to call it. In addition, I would really like to say once again that you can ask yourself why you haven't seen much of the snowball that you finally saw rolling into the ravine. And yet that didn't happen. The first moment is therefore the handling of the Council of State. The second important moment is, for myself at least, Question Time on 21 May. That is the signal for me to appeal to the official summit, one, and two, to also give a service in relation to the raising of everything in the field of ethnic profiling. Information will then emerge in mid-June. That requires the Secretary of State to take action. That also means he's putting that on the Council of Ministers. By the way, I am one of those times when he brings that in, not even present, because then I will be at a meeting of the G20. A very fundamental research question has already been put to Mr Donner. The expectation is that it will come shortly after the summer. In June we thought: "Okay, we want to find out everything objectified now. We do not want to do some things about it ourselves. I thought that was wise of the Secretary of State, because we are the first to be suspected of making the dossier potentially small or any type of bias. We are waiting for the Donner Committee and we are going to do that con amore." Unfortunately, this will take longer, it will be November, it will be December and then there will be a lot of questions about it. That'll be Donner 2. That's what happened in my memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u549	I'm pretty sure I can follow that order. It is also known, but the question is next, and the Prime Minister no longer has an active reminder, so I really put my hope for the Minister of Finance. Why wasn't it said then: okay, everything goes wrong; we don't have all the answers yet, but we press the stop button? Why hasn't it been said: we're gonna stop all the recovery now; we're not gonna make the misery even worse now? That is such a crucial moment that I really want to know from the main players why that did not happen. I would like to return to that Council of Ministers on 7 June in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u550	I do not know if it was the Council of Ministers of 7 June, but at least it is one of the Councils of Ministers where much has been to be done in the interrogation, including in the high-level contacts, where I was at least not in the country myself. So I almost by definition have no memory of that for the simple reason that I wasn't there. What I don't remember from that period is that it stopped or didn't stop when the Secretary of State had been a consideration, other than that he did it again, and I think he did the right thing at that time: "There must be a good answer that is objective, to all affected parents. Don't make me try to give that half myself. Let me ask Mr Donner and his committee, because they will then be able to look at this in full." Afterwards I blame myself for that and I think that the Secretary of State has had that feeling and has thought: if only we had. We should have said, on this part too, that we are now pressing the stop button. If you see how the file continues, you would also have liked to have made a much larger gesture to the parents much earlier. But just looking back at the situation back then, I do understand why the Secretary of State wanted to do that objectification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u551	Good. Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u552	The minister keeps saying, "If only we had, if only I had." But I can see in the documents that the Minister as the final manager is again depoliticizing things quite considerably by referring to Donner. My question is: who came up with the idea of appointing Donner, who is known as the predecessor of the Ruttedoctrine and also as a master in keeping rulers and ministries out of the wind? Who came up with the idea of asking Donner for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u553	I really can't make those qualifications mine. Members of parliament of all parties are free to do so, but I cannot make them mine as a member of the cabinet. In my memory, this is what happened. The Secretary of State and the Secretary-General discussed this. I remember a moment when the Secretary-General informed me and said that the Secretary of State and they had Mr Donner in mind. I thought that was a wise choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u554	Okay. I can imagine the Minister saying: those qualifications are up to you, Mrs Ouwehand. Thanks for the answer. However, I would like to ask: does the Minister think that in view of the fact that Donner's report has been delivered, given the information he has been given, that, in view of the fact that Mr Donner and his committee have not drawn the sharp conclusions that had been necessary, and given that this has not helped in this matter again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u555	I really do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand. I think it's been really wise to objectify. I found, and still find, that choice for people with distance, but also of great administrative weight, a sensible choice. What then happened to the Donner Committee........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because one goes digging, digging and digging, then asks the Secretary of State several times for extra time and finally decides that a second report is needed, because they have not covered a very large part of the palette.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u556	My last question. I imagine that sometimes you set up committees or ask someone to do difficult research, but that does not, of course, relieve you of your political responsibility to provide people with the legal protection that is needed. That's the trouble with committees like that all the time. If we see what information Donner has received and the conclusions that have been drawn from it, then the Minister here today, in the context of reflection and the break with the past that we are trying to realize here, could say: that just did not go so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u557	I have said on several occasions that I would like to repeat that very much has not gone well in providing information towards the Chamber and thus towards Donner. I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand. But I think that is a different matter than putting the committees on the spot that they would not have wanted to do a proper job. I really do... I can't agree with that. In fact, I think that Donner, in the first instance, Donner in the second instance, and indeed the Van Dam Committee, have drawn very strong conclusions, quite rightly in my view, in the direction of Cabinets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u558	The Minister of Finance says honestly in the look-back: I would have done things differently, "we should have." Now there are a number of choices for us, including the payment of €30,000 to people who have been hurt. A simple question to the Minister of Finance: is money the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u559	No. I have been crystal clear about that in this dossier from the very beginning. Both when Mrs Leijten asked me earlier whether the first half-billion could be lifted across the annual line and would not be covered by the normal budgetary rules as well as in this dossier. The Secretary of State and I are therefore fully committed to this. Of course, you should ask her, but I think she will recognize that there has been no obstacle to compensating parents for financial reasons. That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u560	It's hard for a lot of people to understand why it's taking so long. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. Does the Minister of Finance also feel personally responsible for the rapid payment of the €30,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u561	The Secretary of State will say more about it in a moment, but I think we all have a very uncomfortable feeling that it's not as fast as you'd like. Again, the Secretary of State will explain in a moment. Because you want to do this in a good way. We also really think that we can do a lot before 1 May. At the same time, I also understand that in a file in which you have so often disappointed citizens and in which you have not met deadlines so often, you mention a date that you know for sure or think you can know for sure that you are going to make it. By the way, we have the crystal clear ambition to do a lot before that deadline. But let me give the Secretary of State the opportunity to provide a better prognosis and description of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u562	Finally. The Minister of Finance looks back and says, "I wish I had. There were times when we sat around the table with each other; if we had had the presence of spirit at that time to actually set that stop button, we would have been spared so much suffering." Now the Minister still stands for choices, for example about the payout. Is he gonna be on a quick payoff? Can we also ask and expect his commitment to that file?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u563	I believe that the Prime Minister has made this crystal clear, that the Secretary of State has repeatedly made it crystal clear, and I have done so myself. If there were any suggestion that one of us might think otherwise, I would like to remove it. I haven't tasted that in any of the cabinet statements. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u564	Thank you. I see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u565	I would also like to return with the Minister to the question of why no action has been taken before. I think it was Mr Klaver who just asked about the moment of May 2019, why the stop button was not pressed and why the recovery continued. I would like to take another step forward, namely towards February 2020. We've seen the notes by now. In it you can read that at some point the choice has to be made whether 2,000 parents will be helped and compensated or 23,000 parents. That is the so-called high-risk group, with the most vulnerable affected in this scandal. Why didn't the Minister choose to help those 23,000 people when this was on his desk in February 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u566	The suggestion contained in the question is that, as a cabinet, we wanted to fail parents. Apart from the fact that the Secretary of State took office on 28 January, this is simply not the case either with her or with me or with any of the other members of the cabinet. It is true that we were then awaiting the second Donner report. I really do not have the impression that anyone in the cabinet at that time tried to ease the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u567	But this note shows something else. It says something about making the precedent as small as possible and keeping the group as small as possible. That was on the table, wasn't it? And you knew there were 23,000 parents affected by this, didn't you? What prevented you from saying: we're going to help these people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u568	I really have to refer to the Secretary of State for exactly how that went in time. Mrs Marijnissen says it's from February. I believe that the Secretary of State took office on 28 January. I've been working on virtually nothing in week eight but the Tax Administration and Charges. Next, I have spent a lot less time doing this because of the simple reason that I had to do my normal portfolio, apart from corona, which we had to deal with from March onwards of course. Maybe she can explain this more clearly. I really want to insist that in my memory not only me, but also other members of the cabinet, have been interested in making it easy to be small. In fact, as the Prime Minister has just said, one of the discussions we had with Mrs Klijnsma and Mr Donner went in a different direction. That is precisely what went in the direction of: do we limit, for reasons that are understandable in themselves, the population and the group of people why it is not so bad that there is still all kinds of suffering that we would like to address? That is just one of the questions that we asked Mr Donner at the beginning of January; I believe on 4 January. And then he was also working on that second report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u569	I find this difficult to reconcile when reading in the same note: where possible, precedent effects and appearance effects should be reduced. It's about proportionality. It says: measures must be related to the suffering experienced. The Minister then scribbles: experienced suffering is very subjective. And so on, and so on. If you add that to the knowledge that this group existed at the Tax Office, then I really do not understand how the entire cabinet, including this minister, has been able to look away from it for so long. Anyway, the Minister doesn't answer that. I understand that, so I'd like to ask him another question. This is about the implementation of the €30,000 and the role of the Tax Administration in it. Does the Minister agree with us that in view of the fact that the Tax Administration is making a lot of progress over and over again in the execution and fails to have normal contact with people, it is much better to pull the Tax Administration out of that €30,000 scheme? People can't trust the IRS anymore. To this day, even during this debate, we are still receiving all kinds of messages from parents who are once again confronted with all kinds of letters that they simply should not get in this situation. Let someone else do it. Pull it off. Set up something new that's gonna organize it. We don't care how you do it, but at least take it away from the Tax Office, if only to keep those parents from getting disappointed over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u570	First of all, on that last point, and then I have the need to say something about that first point. On that last point: if you are convinced that this would speed things up, you should, of course, consider it. The Secretary of State will have to answer it in a moment, but I think the advice will be to her: if you change that now, the chances are that you will be more delayed and that the misery will probably be greater rather than smaller. She'll have to answer that. I hear Mrs Leijten say all kinds of things, but none of the cabinetmen present here do not want to transfer this as soon as possible. Of course, that is not the case. That is why we have said that we must make a great gesture. We are going to make €30,000 available. We want to do so as soon as possible. We then had a discussion at the Catshuis about how quickly that can be done. What can we at least do? Can we start in January? We asked first if we could start in December. No, we can't. Is there anything we can do in January? Yeah, something, but probably not everything. In February so many thousand parents, probably more. Can we have it done by March? We hope so, but we don't know for sure. So let's choose to do as much as possible in January and February, but let's not make a promise that we can't then deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u571	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u572	I will swallow that last remark, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u573	That's always wise. Then we'll wait for a moment and then I'll give the Secretary of State for Finance the floor. The Secretary of State will be back shortly, but in between, I'd like to make the following proposal. If there are really technical questions and you want to have another debate... I understand at least that proposal will be made in the scheme. A number of questions have been answered a few times. That is why I propose to keep it short. That's always good. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u574	I can easily imagine that a few things that remain in the debate will simply be picked up on 1 February. Then we have a debate on FSV, on blacklists, with the two State Secretarys of Finance. The questions that remain... that's a notation consultation. We'll have to do that through the scheme. I thought I'd sneak in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u575	Mr. Ommzigt, if everyone agrees, you will be able to do so when the Secretary of State returns... then the Secretary of State also knows that you are making that request now, I will say in the meantime. I'll wait a minute, but I'm a little impatient. Perhaps the Minister of Finance could step forward for a moment. It's a little helping. Secretary of State, you were gone for a while, but we have a moment... Mr. Ommzigt, you'd say something. There is a proposal on how we now want to deal with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u576	I hope everything will be answered today, but because we are getting some pieces late, or so late... This time I understand the Prime Minister's explanation of why it took two weeks. Because we've asked 433 questions and not 5, I understand it took longer. I propose that these documents should also be submitted for consultation on 1 February, so that we can get back to some of those questions. Then maybe we can add one or two hours to it, so we can also put it in some depth...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u577	That is one thing, but also that a number of technical questions may be raised in a subsequent debate. Otherwise, we're gonna stay here until deep into the night. I think it is important to go to a conclusion at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u578	Mr President, we can still do it tonight, because we don't have curfew yet, so maybe tonight we can... I get what you're saying. We'll do it a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u579	Yes, do you agree that we are trying to do the broad lines, not repeat the questions that have already been asked and then go to a rounding? I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do my best. I've been working on the problems with the surcharges for almost a year now. I have seen at close range what terrible suffering has caused these problems. I've already had over 200 conversations with duped parents. I've often heard horrible personal stories. More and more information has also emerged in the past year. We have just talked extensively about the past, but also in the past year we have seen that the biased treatment of parents was stronger than we thought and we have seen the consequences of the predicate set-up / gross debt. I think the POK's report also shows the failure of several state powers. So the problems appear to be more serious than I thought when I started my assignment. It's my job to repair the grave suffering of the parents. Many of you are right: that is not as fast as we thought spring was in the beginning of last year. Fortunately, for last year's Christmas, we were able to help the parents in acute need and we have also been able to pay out €750 to all parents who have to wait longer for a decision. The conversation is very much about the financial recovery. That's incredibly important. I'll get back to you in a minute. The focus on compensation is also very justified. But a lot of parents have also indicated to me that they have also had other problems and that it is incredibly important that we get to work with them. These are health, living or working problems. I am very happy to be able to work with municipalities, with which I have made good agreements, to solve this problem. Then only the parents, and also the children, can make a fresh start. A real clean slate, which the parents need, also takes time, time to listen to the story to see what happened and to ensure that there are solutions that come for both parents and children. We promised December 22nd last year that we would pay out €30,000 to all parents, what we are going to do before May 1st of this year. But besides that, it is incredibly important that we agree on debt together. Debts with us, which we brought out more about yesterday, but also, of course, the cancellation of debts with private parties. That is incredibly important to ensure that with this compensation parents can actually make a fresh start. I would like to address some of the questions about recovery. I'm gonna try to do that as soon as possible, Mr. Chairman. There was Mr Omtzigt's question, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Staaij, whether we could give a timetable for compensation. I have indicated that we want to transfer that €30,000 that is a basic amount; parents who are entitled to more will also receive more debt securities as soon as possible. 1 May was mentioned by us as a deadline, for all parents who have already reported to us or are going to do so before 15 February. Meanwhile, we continue with the integral assessments of parents who have asked us to look at their files and for whom it is important that we do so much more extensively. We will, of course, be looking with them for further help. On the details of the planning for the coming period, I would like to inform you about the forthcoming progress report, which we will discuss in the debate we have on this, I believe on 1 February. There was a question from Mr Omtzig about the role of the Committee on Actual Damage. That committee arose as a result of the compensation of the parents in the CAF 11 dossier, already in December 2019. A lot of those parents gave to... That is why the law that we have proposed and which you have laid down here also states that if there is more damage than the lump sum amount, parents must have access to a committee that decides independently what the damage is and how much it is. We're gonna compensate for that damage. Mr Omtzigt asked for the directives to be clarified. That's what we're gonna do. I asked the committee to clarify this for the parents in the coming period, too, by including more information on our website, because it is very important for everyone to understand what the role of this committee is, how it handles it and how it works. I also think it is very important that if parents want to make use of the opportunity to visit the committee, they can do so with good support from a lawyer. For this reason, we have previously announced that we will provide free legal assistance for all parents. We are working out an arrangement with the ministry of JenV. There was a question from Mr Omtzigt about looking retroactively at the documents that were withheld from the courts. You also asked the Prime Minister that question. It is, of course, deeply regrettable that in discussions or rather in court cases, Supplements in the past have not provided the right information to make decisions. Of course, that shouldn't be possible. From the end of 2018, we have taken many internal measures to prevent this. The question has been asked as to what significance it has at the moment. Well, that of course has the meaning that all parents involved in such a lawsuit, who have had such a lawsuit and who have probably lost in many cases, can come back to us. Our recovery schemes are based on the fact that you can come back to us until 2005, the start of the childcare allowance scheme, to make sure that we look again at the dossier, that we also make a decision again and that compensation is also being made where this is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u581	I'd like to finish this anyway. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u582	This is about that piece of court files.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u583	Yes. Very briefly, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u584	This is, of course, one of the most painful legal documents, namely that in a court of law the Tax Administration as a government left out part of the file. That was precisely the part of the file that contained the word 'fraud', that it was a fraud investigation and how it was suspected. That really is a violation of the ECHR and probably also a violation of the Constitution. Then I wonder how many cases the Tax Administration has given incomplete files to the judge until 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u585	Well, we don't know exactly. I'm not sure. At least I know that it played a role in the cases where CAF was involved, because that was the case. These are, of course, also exactly the things for which we have put our compensation in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u586	9,000 parents were affected by CAF. They didn't all go to court. Do I have to conclude here that in a few thousand court cases the Tax Administration has delivered a completely incomplete file that could not be done justice, and that has not been repaired so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u587	I'm afraid I can't tell you how many files we're dealing with. You just asked me the same question. If I knew that, I'd like to tell you, but I don't know. I would very much like to go further, because on the basis of the questions you asked tonight, I looked into whether I could find more information on them. I would very much like to come back to that in the debate at the beginning of February, but at the moment I do not have a precise number of them. I do not want to mention numbers either, because I do not think that would be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u588	I would like to hear that, because there are two points here that are quite problematic in law. That is the point that the whole cabinet says, as the Prime Minister says: in June we saw the problem and no one pressed the stop button. That's quite problematic in the state of law. The second is that you don't submit documents to the court, so you don't stick to them as a government. If this was criminal law, there were six to nine years in prison, just in front of the picture of what happens to you as a police officer when you commit perjury or hand over incomplete documents that sentence someone who doesn't have to be convicted. 'Cause that happens, doesn't it? We don't know how big that is yet. I'd like to know. I would also like to know what efforts have been made to rectify this and how long it has gone through. I hope we can hear that before 1 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u589	February 1st or February 10th?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u590	I assure you that we can indeed bring out this information as much as we can. I hope that will be possible soon. 1 February is of course in the short term, but I am going to do my very best, because I agree with you that this is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u591	Mr President, there are two debates, one on 1 and one on 10 February. So let's see when it comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u592	Okay, so... Yeah, that's good. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u593	It is the first time that I have debated this issue, so I can ask very uninhibited questions. What I really don't understand is why it's so hard to transfer €30,000. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u594	Well, it's not that hard to write a giro for €30,000, but you have to know who to transfer it to, and you also have to be sure that that amount doesn't disappear immediately, for example in debt relief or in a seizure or in a director's office. That's exactly what this is about. We find it incredibly important that parents get that amount as soon as possible, but we also want them to have it themselves, that they have access to it themselves and that they can use it for what it is intended to do, namely the compensation for the suffering they have suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u595	But these parents have been compensated before. They have already received a sum. €750 has already been transferred. If that was possible, why can't we transfer €30,000 to those same people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u596	We will also definitely use the file we used for that €750. But that file is not complete and it is also not entirely correct. We think we should do a good check on that, and we will do it soon. We're gonna make sure we transfer that money as soon as possible. We would also like to stay in touch, because we also know that we have already noticed with the €750... that a lot of parents are also very scared when there is money in their account. We have brief contact with them about this; that is important. But again, we use all the data we have. We're doing the data analyses to get these people to give their money as soon as possible. We'll start with that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u597	I hear there's a committee to look at first. Then a file must be compiled. I also hear that there are not enough officials and that it takes a very long time. It's even the question, if you keep going this way, if you're gonna make it to May 1st. I just don't understand that. Even if you made a mistake somewhere, at least make sure you start with the people you know for sure that most of them have suffered tremendous suffering and wait. The money's not a problem, the finance minister just said. He's committed to a solution. There are names, there are bills. Why May 1st? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u598	I think it is important to say and repeat that we are going to start with this next week. For the parents who are known to us, we are going to work to do so. I have also indicated why it is important not to simply transfer money to people, because we do not always know whether they are in control or in debt relief. We want to prevent the money from disappearing into debt relief or into creditors. The Prime Minister has already said something about this. We want to make sure that the money is made available to them. I would like to discuss it further with the committee. Of course, I want the money to be in the account as soon as possible and I will do everything I can to do so, but I want to make sure that it is actually available to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u599	At the beginning of her speech, the Secretary of State said that she was in consultation with the private creditors. I'm guessing there's the hardest bottleneck there. Has there been an agreement with the private creditors? The moment there is an agreement, it becomes easier to transfer money in debt situations. Is that agreement already in place or is that agreement not yet in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u600	No, there isn't. I've spoken to some of them in the last few days. In particular, I have spoken with the larger private creditors, such as the energy companies, housing companies, health insurance companies and also banks, to see if they would like to cancel these parents' debts altogether. I hope that agreement will be reached soon, because that is indeed important in order to ensure that we can also transfer the €30,000 to the parents who are in debt and in debt relief. By the way, that doesn't apply to all parents. To those who are not in such a position, of course, we can transfer the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u601	I get that. I think the distinction is very important for colleagues. For those who are not in debt relief, the transfer in itself is a piece of cake, except that a check has to be made to see if anyone who has registered falls into the target group. I do not want to have the reverse scandal here that people can sign up, get money a day later and turn out to be out of the target group two days later. I hope you'll check that a little bit, because I know exactly how we'll skip over as a room to the other side. But I would like to know when that agreement with creditors is in place, because that is crucial for the group that is most in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u602	Of course, I'll let you know as soon as I can. Once again, I would like to call on all these parties to help the parents to do this, by indicating that they will actually agree to this. I hope they do so as soon as possible. By the way, it is perhaps good to know that I can at least say that one of the private parties, namely the NS, has said tonight that they will cancel the debts of the parents. I'm going to continue with a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u603	I'm listening to what Secretary of State Van Huffelen says about that $30,000. You know, it's too embarrassing for words. It's really too embarrassing for words. As a cabinet in December, you promised people they'd get the money. I've been listening and I haven't heard one good reason why that should happen in May. If you commit an offence in the Netherlands and you get a ticket, if you pay the taxes late or run through red, then the government is there as the chickens and then you have to pay within two, three, four weeks. So the government knows where to find you if you do something wrong. And now the government has done something wrong, now the government has made some promises to the people in December... you must imagine what those people have been through because of the government's debt. Then you made them happy with that gesture of €30,000. Can you imagine how frustrating it is to have to wait six months for that? You can't be serious. I don't really care how you do it and who does it and why you do it, but you just have to arrange that those people have it on their account within a month or within six weeks. And I think you should promise that to the Chamber, that you should promise that to the people. You can't promise anything in December and then do nothing for six months. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u604	Maybe we should go back to the promise we made in December. We told the parents on 22 December that we will ensure that all the victims will receive €30,000 before 1 May. That's not until May, but we're gonna start with that next week. Last week we sent the regulation to the Chamber. We start immediately with this: next week the first payouts start. Then we'll do it as soon as possible. One of the reasons why we do not do this at once is precisely what I have just indicated, namely that we want to prevent people from getting that money into their accounts, but that it disappears in the event of any government or debt. We're already starting and we're not gonna wait very long after that. We're going to compensate a group of parents every week. People can register until February 15th, and by May 1st, all these parents will have that money in the account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u605	You may have said 'you'll get that before 1 May', but people didn't expect them to get it on their account on 30 April. You say "before May," but you just need to be able to settle that sooner. Even if you get 1,000 officials from somewhere, arrange it! Take care of it! Promise makes you guilty. People are waiting for it. People are looking forward to it. People are undressed. People are hopeless. Where's the money? Why aren't you able to arrange it in the middle of January now? I really don't understand. Is it a shortage of manpower? You say that you must act to ensure that the money does not disappear into creditors' pockets. Is that because you don't have enough people for that? Will it help if you get extra people to do that? What's to prevent you from settling this within a month with the big Treasury device? I don't know why you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u606	What I would like to say to Mr Wilders is that we are doing this as quickly as possible. That's the promise you can get from me. I'll do it with the team that's here. We will take advantage of all the opportunities we have to expand, accelerate, deploy additional people. If you ask me, "Can you do it within a month or two months," I say, "No, I can't promise and promise." I don't want to do that. Above all, I want to make sure that it is clear to the parents that we will start with the first payouts next week. Each week we will make payouts again. But I can't promise, especially if we haven't settled all this debt problem, that we'll pay everyone off well before 1 May. We'll do everything we can. I'll do everything I can to make sure we do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u607	Let us assume that you have this sincere will, but the question was: what is preventing it from happening within a month? Do you have too few people for it? What makes it impossible? Can you do the job when you have 500 men? What's to stop it from happening within a month instead of within three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u608	If I need extra human strength, I'll hire it, I'll make sure it's there. We are. But one of the important factors is this debt problem. If you would like to call on private creditors with me to cancel these parents' debts, it would help greatly to ensure that we can indeed help the people who are still in debt relief, for example, or who have been seized or who are otherwise very badly affected by this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u609	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u610	I have already said it in my term, but perhaps the Secretary of State can also reflect on it. Would it speed it up and are you willing as a government to take over those people's private debts? It costs a few pennies, but you can make sure that you yourself and not me against those people... I'd like to do that, if you don't mind. I'd like to ask if you're going to cancel those debts. You will then have to cut back on something or give less money to Europe or anything else. But you would also be a lot of those private debts if government you are, I think, that people can also take over some mandatory debt. If you did, those people could get their money sooner. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u611	One of the things that matters most here is time. If I have to make all kinds of agreements with all the creditors in the Netherlands on how to pay debts and on what exactly that should look like in the near future, I will lose even more time. It is much easier for them to put a line through their debts, because they can help these parents as quickly as possible. It is therefore extremely important that we keep the pace and that we do not waste any time making all kinds of separate agreements. Of course, there are a lot of creditors in the Netherlands and that is precisely why I am talking to that very big one. By the way, they are united in Schuldenlab.NL under the chairmanship of Gerrit Zalm. They, too, have committed themselves to helping to achieve this. So I hope that will succeed in the short term, because that will also ensure that we can keep the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u612	Last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u613	My final question, Mr President. Again, I think it should be settled within a month. You say that this cannot be done, and that is why I shall immediately refer a ruling to the Chamber. But if the private creditors are not prepared to cancel that debt in the end, are you prepared to take over that debt as a government? I hope, of course, that they will be willing to do so, and with you, of course, I call on them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u614	We're not there yet. Since there is a great deal of willingness on the part of those parties to participate, I assume they will. We will see if it will succeed in time, but I still have good hope of that. I shall now turn to Mr Krol's question as to whether the problem also arises in the case of other supplements. That is the case and has already been noted in the Donner Committee's report. We have also announced that we will make arrangements for this. They are now being prepared and I am going to present them to you shortly. I should like to pass on a few minor questions so that I can continue with Mr Van der Staaij's questions on the Tax Administration. How are we going to ensure that people who get into trouble will actually face someone of flesh and blood? That's what we're gonna do, and that's what we've promised before. In this letter, of course, we have indicated this much more extensively, because it says that we are doing it not only for the Tax Administration and the surcharges but for the whole of the Netherlands. I am also pleased that the municipalities have indicated that they would like to cooperate to ensure that it can be combined as much as possible. After all, we do not want to offer this separate service to all those implementing organisations side by side. We want to work together as much as possible so that people dealing with multiple bodies can also be helped together as much as possible. I will go very briefly to the topic of debt. I think we've talked a lot about that. Perhaps in this context I can say something about Mr Omtzigt's question on cooperation with municipalities. We have a covenant on this with the municipalities. We have indicated that we will give compensation for the help that municipalities will provide to parents. We have paid an initial amount of EUR 11 million for this, but if more is needed, we will do more. We have also made parents' first data available to the municipalities, so that they can also work with them. They need our data on the parents to be able to do so. There was also a question from Mr Segers about this, so I can tell him that municipalities will be compensated for that. I think I will move on to the questions on the issue of discrimination. Then I'll leave the issue of debt for what it is, unless there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u615	A quick question. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u616	The question is this. We have been asking for six months, and there is also a motion from Mr Lodders when municipalities finally get the lists. Not just the lists of people who have signed up, but of all the people who have been victimized. There was already a list of 22,000 bsn-numbers, but it was then lost in the municipality, because it was not allowed to be shared. What I said in my term was very clear. The IRS has illegally labeled these people as a fraud. He broke a law there. We'll be back on the list of laws that have been broken. The Tax Administration had no problem sharing it illegally as a fraud with everyone and his mother throughout the administration of the Netherlands. That has caused these people an incredible amount of trouble. No vog, no rental house, dismissal from municipalities and from financial positions; you name it all. Now that data has to be shared to protect these people, there was the GDPR at once. Well, I've never seen the IRS stick to the AVG, so that was definitely the first time. Can we assume that all this data, now that the AP has given permission, will be shared with the municipalities, so that the municipalities can contact the people who have reported and the people who have not reported? And can that happen in a week or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u617	The simple answer to that is yes. The first data has also been made available to the municipalities. Municipalities do so under mandate................................................................................................................................................................................ Once they indicate who can receive these data from them, so that they get started and do so in a good way, the data can be provided. So you can do that at any time from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u618	Fine. So these are not just the data of the people who have reported themselves, but all the people who are known to you as either a victim of hardness or of the CAF case or of intent/great guilt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u619	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u620	The Secretary of State said that municipalities will be compensated. There are two elements in the activities of the municipalities: that is the taking over of debts, i.e. the compensation of debts, and the mentoring of people who have financial problems. What compensation is there and how are municipalities compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u621	We don't ask municipalities to take over debts. We only ask municipalities to help parents with different habitats, as it is called, so for example to find a new home when they have lost their homes, to take care of it if they are looking for work, to help them with it if there are health problems, in the sense that they are referred to the right people who can help them and if they need debt relief. But again, if what I very much hope is going to happen, then there is not so much debt relief, except that municipalities should help to do the last actions so that people are no longer in debt relief. My main aim is to stop people from remaining in such a path where they have to live off a small amount of money per week in order to repay their old debts. I hope that people, with the step we have taken as government and also the step that private creditors are going to take, will then be out of debt. But sometimes they're still in such a trajectory. This has to be settled, and only municipalities can do so. They have indicated that they want to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u622	I had also asked a question about the involvement of Social Affairs, because they have a very human approach and a broad approach to debt. Is Social Affairs involved or is it involved? Because, of course, these people have a rather traumatic memory of the IRS. If that's the only service they're dealing with, I don't think that's the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u623	We are working very closely with Social Affairs, but I am sure that my colleague will be able to answer that question even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u624	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u625	I will move on to the issue of discrimination. Many answers have already been given by those who have said something about this before, but there are a few things I would like to say at least. It's about what happened in the past. We discussed this earlier when we discussed the report of the Dutch Data Protection Authority in committee. In the past, the first nationality was used in risk models and in queries, and double nationality among others in searches. We have done everything we can to ensure that this dual nationality has been removed from our systems. We have also indicated that, in the context of the inquiry on 1 February, the debate in which we are talking about FSV, among other things, will continue on all the activities that the Tax Administration is doing to ensure that there is nothing left in the systems that is not allowed in it. Then about nationality in our records. Nationality is a relevant factor in determining whether a person is entitled to a supplement. That's why we register nationality. We take that from the basic administration of municipalities. That is what we need to see if there is a particular residence permit that is needed, and that is what we need in the case of taxes when paying contributions. I would like to make it very clear that we do not use it in risk models, do not use it to run queries and so on. Let me say again, in line with what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have said about this, that we find discrimination totally inappropriate to the work done by the Tax Administration. I think I have discussed the most important questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u626	Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u627	I'll be brief. Have these parents been discriminated against or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u628	I think it's very clear. In the investigation carried out by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, it is quite clear that there has been discrimination by the Tax Administration. There has been no proper handling of the nationality or second nationality of parents as part of the childcare allowance. We have promised that we will continue on the so-called blue side of the Tax Administration to see if all registrations we are not allowed to do, all queries and all risk models have been cleaned for that. That does not only happen on the blue side, but also on Customs. We will discuss this further in the debate on 1 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u629	That's a clear answer. This means that there are a huge number of parents here without a direct Dutch background, with a migrant arrival, because they have been selected. They've been discriminated against. Parents I speak to often ask: what have I done and why have I been taken out? I'm having trouble answering then. I believe that we sometimes have to record data, as has just been mentioned, which are necessary to determine whether you are entitled to something, but that is different from: I was extracted from it on that basis. There is institutional bias. I think that's a terrible word, but that's like, "You look like a fraud and I assume you're a fraud. That's why I treat you like this. In all the evidence, I'm looking for something to back that up." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u630	I think we should be very sharp. A lot of the parents I speak to indicate that they have at least the feeling of being discriminated against. They've been so approached by us. I find it incredibly important that we continue to investigate and find out, as far as we can, for example by looking closely at their files. We will do the same when we treat those files in their entirety, especially when parents feel that feeling, have that idea or have signals from them. Unless we look into that ourselves, if they want to, they can go to the Human Rights College for that. I think it is incredibly important that it should surface. If you are asking whether a person of dual nationality was a parent by default who had a problem with Supplements, the answer is no. It is true that by the way we worked you were more likely to be selected for further investigation. That's what happened. That could be one reason why people with dual nationality are actually affected. But it could also be, and we have seen it, that sometimes in files about these parents were spoken in a very nasty and incorrect way. The Prime Minister has said more about this. Of course, that shouldn't be possible anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u631	Clear. That last one's horrible. It is often said that people with different origins are spoken of less worthyly. I really care about the systematic. Article 1 of our Constitution says that we treat people equally. That has been exceeded and violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u632	Yeah, that's right. That is also the observation made very clearly by the Dutch Data Protection Authority in its report in July last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u633	I suggest you move on. How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u634	I think I've come a long way. There were a few questions about the future of surcharges, but we still have a debate on them. I therefore propose that we discuss this further with each other. These are the questions that have been asked, for example, about the current system, the problems that currently exist and the question of how to prevent them. I have sent the Chamber a comprehensive report on this with the possible variants that you can choose if you want to get rid of not only the childcare allowance, but also the benefit scheme in a broad sense. I have a number of other questions. There is another question from Mr Omtzigt about documents in CAF cases that were not shared with the Chamber in March 2019, although they were asked to do so. I looked into that and looked into the background to it. I understand that the debate in March was mainly about CAF 11 and not about other CAF matters. Further information was then requested. It was only made available about six months later. On this basis, therefore, further conclusions could also be drawn on the fact that we were not only dealing with the problems of the CAF 11 case, but certainly also that it was broader. Eventually we saw, of course, on the basis of the work of the Donner Committee, but also on the basis of our joint work here, that many more parents were affected. As regards Mr Omtzigt's question on the tax ombudsman, my colleague Mr Vijlbrief has already said more, namely that we are discussing this with the 'ordinary' Ombudsman, to put it another way, to see how we could implement the motion adopted by this Chamber. In any case, in the cabinet response to the POK, we have asked the Ombudsman to do so in order to take more and more direct action when parents report to him who have been in trouble with implementing organisations. I say "parents" here, but I actually mean all the inhabitants of the Netherlands. Honestly, I think I'm out of the most important questions for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u635	I see Mrs Ouwehand wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u636	The Prime Minister referred to the Secretary of State when asking whether the government formally recognises liability for the damage suffered and the responsibility to recover it. I was promised that Mrs Van Huffelen would answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u637	I am just looking into the context in which you are asking, because I think it was about how to do that with the regime. I have discussed this with the board of directors. So I would like to answer that question in writing to do it very precisely, because I am looking with them at the concerns they have expressed and which they have also expressed in a letter which has been sent to you. Yesterday I spoke to them about the question of what exactly is happening. We want, together, and of course we want, that if parents have actually been compensated, there is no possibility that large creditors from the past might reappear if parents had already been given a clean slate. That's one of the things we like to watch together...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u638	Good. You will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u639	... so I'd like to come back in writing on what it takes to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u640	Thank you. Short question, Mr. Overzigt. You don't have to. I can see you're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u641	I have no doubt in this debate, Mr President. I was just curious to see a list of where the government has all acted unlawfully. May I think that that could be: stopping instead of suspending surcharges, causing people acute trouble.......................................................................................................................................................... Then I have another question about the extra group between 2005 and 2012. Is it true that the government has acted unjustly on all these points and has committed unlawful acts? Am I missing something in this list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u642	Some of these points, I'm sure. But I think it is a good thing that I come back with you, and I would be happy to do so in the next debate we have on exactly these elements, namely whether all the issues you now mention can actually be described as unlawful action. This certainly applies to the collective cessation of payment debts, the illegal use of nationality, the failure to provide information to parents, the careless handling of the qualification set-up/greater debt and the exceeding of time limits in decision and objection. I would like to return with you to the other points you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u643	I hope to receive this within two weeks. I find it a little strange and I'll explain why. EUR 1.5 billion has now been promised in compensation for the wrong actions of the public authorities. Then you expect there to be a list that the government admits to where she acted illegally. It is a credit to this Secretary of State that she now admits it on five points. This is clear and also important for the legal procedures that follow. But I'd like to hear the whole list where the government itself believes she's been acting unjustly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u644	All right, let's do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u645	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few points, for my part. Of course, much has been said, and rightly so, about what has happened in the past and what terrible injustice has been done to the parents, but the cabinet response also sees, above all, another important question: how do we prevent this kind of thing from happening again? We are also working very hard on this. In this context, Mr Dijkhoff asked Mr Dijkhoff to leave for a moment, for example, whether there could be opponents in fraud cases. I find that an interesting suggestion. In October, I sent a letter to the Chamber to amend the concept of fraud in the Law on Social Security, precisely in order to make the distinction between a mistake and a real fraud law. I want to take it with me. Mr Omtzig asked whether we are currently looking at other laws, such as the Participation Act. Yes, I sent a letter about that yesterday. I am also talking about this with the Ombudsman and with the municipalities, partly because of cases we have seen in the media lately. Something tells me that the Chamber will soon be giving a wider response to this. The Prime Minister has already said a great deal about the human dimension in implementation. In the cabinet response, we really make money available for this; Mrs Van Brenk asked: physical counters, no closed doors in the government. If you sign up at a counter and you're at the wrong counter, the door won't close, but you'll be referred. Of course, we all have to work that out. We also like to discuss it extensively with the Chamber. I think that these are really key elements to prevent all of this from happening again. Finally, Mr President. I'll keep it brief, even given the time. Mr Segers asked about our involvement in the debt approach and in the recovery. It's really big. It's official and it's my own. We use our infrastructure, which is of course very strong in the debt domain, with the VNG, with DebtsLabNL and so on. So, yeah, we're really moving in together, and we're definitely gonna keep doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u647	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. A three-minute suspension? Then I'll suspend the meeting for three minutes. Then we go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u648	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u649	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by correcting something. In the first term of the cabinet the election program of the VVD was added. Of course, I can't interrupt someone who's interrupting. That is why I say to Mr Klaver in particular that on page 20 there is the following on the fight against fraud: 'Reducing the human dimension in implementation. There have been too many examples in recent years of citizens and entrepreneurs who have been wrongly designated as fraudsters. Tackling fraud must not lead to a person making a mistake being labeled as a fraud. In order to change this, we strengthen the internal checks in the implementation and at the same time reduce unclear legal language in the communication of the government." So Mr Klaver has been served at his beck and call; the learning ability in the party has immediately manifested itself in the election program. I will not read the rest of the relevant passages now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u650	No, we're not going to discuss the VVD election program in the second term of the Chamber, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u651	This gives hope. In the first period, I had an interruption debate on the Participation Act, because it contains the same elements, which are simply hard-working for individuals. Now that Participation Act is on the table for February 8th. The Chamber has yet to see what we may or may not declare controversial. The question I asked was: will we then ensure that that law is not declared controversial, so that we can just deal with it and make those changes there? Mr Dijkhoff felt surprised by this in the first term, so I thought I would come back to it in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u652	I haven't had a group meeting yet. Knowing our group, we must have a "controversiality coordinator." I'm gonna find out who that is and what he thinks. However, Mr President, please forgive us for bringing some mess here late in the evening on this serious subject, and let us return to the subject. I would like to thank colleagues in the Chamber who have also reflected on the role of the Chamber, as well as the logical, appropriate and severe criticism of officials, the judiciary and the cabinet. Like I said, they're standing next to each other and don't take anything off each other. I am also very much in favour of continuing this reflection with a look from the outside. Mr Omtzigt will be tabling a motion on behalf of me and others to involve not only outsiders from outside the Chamber, but also from outside the country, through the Venice Commission. That seems to me to be a good look on the outside that can give us a mirror. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. I also understand that this will not be the last debate on this subject, but I do think it is a good debate to consider the political responsibility that has been taken and the analysis of the interrogation committee on the mistakes that have been made. In continuing this discussion, I believe that the priority should be to arrange compensation for parents and children as quickly as possible. In addition to the fact that we have decided here on how to do this, we must also ensure that those parents and children who also have compensation can continue their lives and start to put this period behind them. To underline that, and the thanks to the members of the interrogation committee, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the mandate given by the Chamber to the parliamentary interrogation committee;]] [[Considers that this committee has carried out a thorough investigation and laid down its findings in a clear report;]] [[expresses her appreciation for this;]] [[endorses the findings;]] [[points out that the report with findings provides an important basis for compensation to parents and children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Krol, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u653	Mr President, thank you very much. I also started my first term with it: it is initially a tragedy, a hell for the parents, for the innocent people who were treated as criminal fraudsters, which put them in a situation that few of us can imagine. I heard that, in certain cases, the compensation promised will not be paid until April. When will that be? This is unacceptable. It's embarrassing, it's clumsy and it's unacceptable. I think it's false, too, because if you promise it in December, you're gonna say it's in May. People don't expect it in April, but they expect it right away. So I also think it should be now. The Secretary of State can tell me more and say that it can't; it has to be done. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that victims of the premium affair have not yet been compensated;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all victims of the supplementing affair are compensated within one month and victims who still have to apply for compensation are compensated no later than one month after the application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u654	I hope with Secretary of State Van Huffelen that the private creditors will forgive those debts, but I do not want people to get their money or lose it immediately if that does not happen. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to take over the victims' private debts if necessary so that they can retain the €30,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u655	Mr. Chairman. A lot more has happened. I won't repeat everything, but the Chamber has been lied to, the judges haven't gotten files that would leave people out of court, and so on. I found the Prime Minister's actions today extremely weak. I haven't seen him so weak in four years. He continued to dodge the ultimate responsibility, the political responsibility. I don't think that's possible. Ministers resign, Secretary of State resign, tens of thousands of lives of families have been destroyed, and the Prime Minister says two months earlier than he would become a missionary: I go, I quit. At least I'm going to be a missionary. Then he just goes on and comes back like nothing happened. He avoided all my questions at this point in five interruptions. That means he feels very uncomfortable about it, too. I saw that in him. He was in charge for ten years. That was you, Mr. Rutte, and you failed. The time has to be over when you turn around and make excuses to save your own ass, while you throw other rulers in front of the bus. So I think you should go after the election. Staying is unbelievable and unfair. I hope you really take responsibility. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Mr Rutte, as Prime Minister, is the prime minister in relation to the supplementing drama and all the gross abuses associated with it;]] [[calls on Mr Rutte to reflect on his political future and immediately withdraw from politics after the forthcoming Lower House elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u656	Mr. Chairman. Then register the nationality. I say do it! It's totally non-discriminatory, because you do it to everyone. Only in the case of excessive fraud, at any nationality, do you use that nationality as one of the many risk indicators. Otherwise, we'll never find out when the next Bulgarian fraud would be. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that the GBA re-registers single and multiple nationalities so that execution organisations such as the Tax Administration, municipalities and UWV can use them as a risk indicator, but only when proven over-representation of fraud within a given nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u657	Finally, a motion on the possibility of hearing officials in the most accessible but still formal way. Apart from direct contacts between MPs and civil servants, I also believe that Chambers should be able to do so without the permission of the cabinet. Whistleblowers can thus earlier and still formally be heard and commit wrongdoing. Hence the next and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that important official information was kept out of the sight of the House of Representatives for years in the context of the supplementing case;]] [[Whereas the dramatic findings, as described in the Memo Palms, could have led to more rapid action and could have made the victims more aware of their suffering if they had previously been shared with the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that officials can be heard by regular committees of the Lower House without prior permission from the Cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u658	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u659	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u660	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a sad opportunity to have this debate and to know that at the end of this debate we have taken only a few small steps towards both restoring the rule of law and, perhaps even more importantly, satisfying parents and children. I am also pleased that the SP will shortly be tabling a motion on the children, because they have been the child of the account for a very long time and even forgotten, until today, in compensation. Mr. Chairman. A few things that stand out. What strikes me is that I hope we get a clear analysis of how to prevent this. That's not easy, I say. For we have simply failed to implement that system of powers and adversaries. It's probably the other side of the amazing polderland we have, where we always find each other. This has advantages, but the disadvantage is that we have not sufficiently closely checked each other, on all sides, from the Ombudsman to the judiciary, from the Second Chamber to the government. We're not sharp enough if something goes wrong. We will have to realize that as a country. If we don't realize that, we're gonna mess ourselves into another disaster. I say that from Enschede, where I live. I know a fireworks factory blew up in Culemborg in 1991. There was one very clear recommendation: make sure you don't have a fireworks store in a neighborhood. Nine years later, an entire neighborhood in Enschede exploded because nine different inspections were responsible, but no one took responsibility. If that happens again here, and if something like this happens again because we have done nothing here, they will judge us and this debate devastatingly in a number of years' time. So it will be a whole process to put all this right. I hope to learn from the government and from the Prime Minister why the stop button was not pressed in June 2019. Everyone's panicking, everyone's thinking about the political consequences and nobody's thinking about the parents. I hope to hear how many files have been withheld, which has meant that the case law in this country has not been fair. And I'm hoping to get that list of laws that have been broken. 'Cause you don't pay a billion dollars in compensation if you don't break any laws. Before February 10th, I want to know what's going on with the creditors. I understand Mr Wilders' question, but those creditors must be clear. The Government Commissioner must be able to make clear what information is being kept. I just expect to keep the letter from Minister De Vries on Article 68. I'll come back to the other cases later. I'm going to file three motions. The first is about the Venice Commission. Mr Dijkhoff has already announced this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law has been violated and that it is desirable to seek external advice from independent experts;]] [[decides to ask the Venice Commission to give its opinion on the following cases:]] [[the legal protection of citizens in the Netherlands, in particular under administrative law (including scope, legal protection, marginal review and role of the Council of State);]] [[the system of power and counterpower in theory and practice, including the States General and the judiciary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u661	Mr. Chairman. We can also look at the judiciary ourselves. That is why, together with my colleague Chris van Dam, who has done this excellent work in a short time with a committee that has worked hard and found a certain degree of unity that we do not always find here in committees with such different and strong characters, I felt that we should also ask for a state committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report finds unprecedented injustice in the implementation of the childcare allowance in breach of fundamental principles of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas this finding concerns both the legislative, judicial and executive powers;]] [[Whereas there is reason to fear that these problems arise more widely in public action;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare for the establishment of a State Commission which, in a broad sense, analyses the functioning of the rule of law and puts forward proposals to strengthen it and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u662	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the law on childcare benefits is too rigid;]] [[noting that the implementation has also been too rapid;]] [[noting that the law has not always been complied with;]] [[noting that this has become known too late and that it has therefore been taken too late;]] [[Whereas similar patterns may also be dealt with within other laws and implementing bodies;]] [[calls on the government, with the help of an external party, to carry out, for example, an investigation with the aim of reviewing other laws and regulations in which either the law or the implementation has harsh effects on groups of citizens, using existing investigations;]] [[calls on the Government also to have this Party at least look at the Participation Act, the PGB and the laws implemented by the UWV;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal for such an investigation to the Chamber within three weeks, to allow citizens to provide examples, and to forward a first report to the Chamber before 1 July,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u663	Mr President, one final point. That's what I'm gonna do with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u664	Very briefly, Mr. Ommzigt, otherwise it's not fair to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u665	I'm going to take that off with a written question. There will be an investigation; I understand that it concerns the first week of June. I have some questions about how this should be done, but I will put that question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u666	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u667	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive answer. The report Unfamiliar injustice was a destructive report on how parents in the Netherlands have been ground up for years in an overly complex supplementing system where they have been wrongly classified as fraudsters. This report and this debate should first of all deal with how these parents receive this compensation as soon as possible and not be burdened with unnecessary debts. Thank you for your answer on that point. We look forward to the progress made by the Secretary of State to get private creditors on the right track. But this debate must also be a break with the past, a break with the mistakes that we have made over the past ten years, and a start with better policies, where we put confidence at the centre rather than mistrust and with all the state powers making sure that this can no longer happen. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions of my own. The first is with Mr Segers. It's about the registration at the BKR. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that due to payment debts other loans could not be paid and that negative BKR registration was obtained;]] [[Whereas this may have a significant impact, for example on the application for a mortgage or a new telephone subscription;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make every effort to ensure that the BKR removes these negative registrations as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u668	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I argued for more human measure with the judge, so that he can also take personal situations with him. That's why the next motion. Excuse me, she's very extensive. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tailor-made work requires guided implementation in principle, as the legislator can never oversee all future cases;]] [[Whereas the general principles of good administration (abbb) constitute a safety valve for cases where strict application of the law leads to unfair outcomes;]] [[noting that these principles are not fully incorporated in the General Administrative Law Act (Awb);]] [[calls on the Government to state beyond doubt that the Abbb must lead if strict application of the law would otherwise lead to material unacceptable outcomes, including in the case of mandatory legislation;]] [[calls on the government to fully anchor the Abbb in the Awb;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue to present proposals in spring 2021, preferably by adapting the General Administrative Law Law, which allow the courts to exclude mandatory law from application in any case;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals for a less marginal test by the administrative judge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u669	Mr. Chairman. For the viewer at home: this was a very long motion, but it actually regulates that the judge can weigh people's personal situation to prevent them from being really ground up by the system we've been talking about for so long today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u670	That could have been in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u671	Yeah, but I understand from the lawyers that it's important that this is all there, so that's why. On this point, I have just followed the advice of the experts. Mr. Chairman. In addition, in this debate I, together with a number of colleagues, have drawn attention to a number of points that my group considers to be very important. This involves replacing the complex surcharge system with, among other things, a free childcare provision, the screening of all the algorithms used by the government, the cessation of institutional discrimination and racism in public institutions and the cancellation of those private debts, plus the cessation of the data exchange law. I have therefore co-signed a number of motions from colleagues from the Christian Union, GroenLinks, SP, the Party for Animals and colleague Azarkan van DENK. With these motions I hope to have expressed the way in which my group weighs this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u672	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u673	Mr President, thank you. It was a debate on a fierce subject. Very relevant to politics The Hague, but the people who have fallen victim to it have not gotten any better this evening. It is a great responsibility for the Cabinet and the Chamber to ensure that a real solution is found as soon as possible. I agree with the Secretary of State's appeal to all these big private creditors: take responsibility and make sure that you too cancel those debts and take a turn. Take a step. A number of things. I think it is important for the cabinet, mainly through Secretary of State Van Huffelen, to say that there has been institutional racism and that Article 1 of the Constitution has been violated. But I don't think that's the end of it. I think we need to go a step further with regard to the self-learning algorithms that the government uses to detect social security. I think we should step away from that until we know for sure how this works. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a wide range of (self-learning) algorithms is used within the government system, on the basis of which important decisions are made that can have a major impact on many Dutch people;]] [[Whereas the risk of discriminatory algorithms has not been removed by removing the indicator "nationality', since a profile against which discrimination can be established can also be based on other data variables such as birthplace, zip code or even IP address;]] [[Calls on the Government to completely exclude the use of nationality, ethnicity and place of birth as data variable in all risk models, profiles, systems, selection and blacklists used within the public sector;]] [[calls on the Government also to ensure that self-learning algorithms in risk classification models do not use these indicators;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an algorithm registry describing which algorithms the government uses, for what purpose and based on which datasets so that everyone can monitor whether or not discriminatory algorithms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan, Mr Jetten, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Brennk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u674	Mr. Chairman. It was also about the rule of law. Many colleagues have talked about how it has been systematically broken down in recent years with cuts in legal aid. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that access to justice and legal protection have been under pressure for years due to the excessive workload and under-payment to social lawyers;]] [[having regard to the fact that the premium affair shows what happens when fundamental principles of the rule of law are violated and when the legal protection of citizens is not in order;]] [[Considering that the Van der Meer Commission has identified what is needed to remove bottlenecks in subsidised legal aid and that this amounts to a structural investment of EUR 127 million;]] [[calls on the government to comply with the recommendations of the Van der Meer Commission, to invest in the social attorney's office in a structural manner, to increase all social attorney's fees as soon as possible and to increase the capacity of Legal Loketten,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Brenk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u675	Finally, Mr President. We also really need to look at how complicated we have rigged the systems. This isn't new to my party. In 2017, we already suggested that you should step away from the childcare allowance and finance it directly. It's the same as education. Just make it accessible immediately and pay it out of taxes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance shows that the supplement scheme is bankrupt;]] [[Whereas the complete abolition of the surcharge system is complex and needs to be handled with care but with urgency, the first step being to abolish the childcare allowance;]] [[calls for the abolition of childcare allowances to be prioritised in the formation and replaced by public funding for childcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u676	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I wonder what all these parents have learned from this debate this evening. They see a prime minister who says he's involved and responsible, but what's going to change? He still rides on to the next election. Why there has not been intervention before, there is simply no clear answer to that either. And then the future, for example the €30,000. Parents have been waiting for a month now, because we have been on the road for a month now. They haven't seen a penny. There is still no certainty, for example about private creditors. Municipalities don't have the data they need yet. At the Tax Office, we understand, half of the staff who should be doing this have already left disillusioned. Mr. Chairman. We have little confidence that it will work out and have a number of motions to improve this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Payment has shown that the rule of law has been violated and tens of thousands of parents have been unjustly accused of fraud;]] [[noting that the interrogation committee did not investigate everything, such as the illegal selection of nationality, the fraud detection outside of Fees, how personal data were shared with other governments and worked on fraud detection elsewhere, but also that the co-legislator's role was not investigated;]] [[believes that it is necessary to draw real lessons from the unprecedented injustice that parents have been wronged in order to prevent this from happening again;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of a parliamentary inquiry to examine the provision of services, enforcement and anti-fraud services in public administrations, including the reports of the Temporary Committee on Implementation Organisations and the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 200 million has been earmarked for a children's fund, but that there are no substantive plans yet;]] [[considers that this amount should be net for the benefit of children who deserve a clean slate for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to place the children's fund in the hands of an independent third party who can generously assist affected children with financial support for, for example, training costs or other cases that have been blocked,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people have been illegally blacklisted and that there is still no knowledge of them with whom and when those data have been shared;]] [[further noted that the risk models of Supplements were discontinued due to their discriminatory selection rules, but that the results of these models were also shared with other public authorities and investigation bodies;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[inform those on the blacklist;]] [[make a proposal before 1 March on the disposal of contaminated data, risk models and the use of nationality throughout public institutions;]] [[set up this investigation and the clearance in consultation with the Chamber and actively communicate on matters found,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-20]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u678	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parental compensation is not working properly and that the Tax Administration has a double role in examining the level and granting compensation to victims of the childcare allowance affair and that implementation is far too slow;]] [[considers that the gross unlawfulness of the Tax Administration means that he should no longer use legal means of defence, such as recourse to formal legal force of underlying decisions or an appeal to limitation periods;]] [[also considers that parents should no longer be confronted with the Tax Administration in order to "opposite" in a dependency relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to give legal form to the implementation of the compensation scheme in such a way that there are no legal defences anymore and that implementation is taken over by an independent third party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u679	Thank you, Mr President. We didn't see any continued responsibility with the Prime Minister tonight. He did apologize, but the parents didn't buy anything for that. It was particularly convenient and far too little sincere politics. Mr. Chairman. The parents are still in the deep shit. It'll just go on and on. The payout of the €30,000 is very difficult. That is what we hold dear to the cabinet, the finance minister, Mr Hoekstra, and Prime Minister Rutte. Mr. Chairman. The institutional racism and ethnic profiling that parents have had to go through increase their pain. It is a good thing that the cabinet is facing this and now also stating that it is there and that measures must also be taken. There is no doubt that we will discuss whether these measures are sufficient, whether they really lead to a change, not only in the systems but also in the way people are talked about. Finally, Mr President. Then I have two motions. The supplement system really has to be different. In the meantime, almost everyone is convinced of that, except for the VVD, but we still give them a little time. They call good public care for all children in the Netherlands a bit demagogic "state crèches." I would advise them, if I may say so: just stop saying that, just say what it is, namely good childcare, affordable, accessible to all children in the Netherlands. The state has nothing to do with that, except that we finance it together. Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas parents who receive compensation may still be confronted with private creditors;]] [[Whereas they have already been wronged by the government in no way;]] [[calls on private creditors to join public authorities that have cleared debts;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that this problem for parents is addressed as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u680	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legislation in many areas is working hard for people;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to draw up a comprehensive inventory of the areas in which this occurs and to make proposals for the inclusion of hardness clauses in the various laws;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u682	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u683	Madam President. This was a debate with shame and a start of self-reflection; not yet of everyone, but Mr Wilders too will get to that point, I think. It was the debate of good intentions, good intentions. We want quick compensation from parents, and another government - there is no wrong window, I hear the Secretary of State say - a policy with a human dimension, better information provision and another tax system without surcharges. They are all good intentions, but they can quickly become pious wishes if they are not followed by good deeds. And that's what it's gonna come down to: we're gonna have to work really hard to really make that change. Madam President. I have two motions, one with a look back and one with a preview. Let's start with the look-back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the House of Representatives has adopted laws which have proved to be harsh in their implementation, such as the so-called Fraud Act and the Anti-Fraud and Taxation Act;]] [[Whereas opinions of the Council of State, for example with regard to the inclusion of a hardness clause, have been in the wind;]] [[declares and acknowledges that the House of Representatives is jointly responsible for legislation which has been very harsh in its implementation and thus for the suffering described in the report Unfamiliar injustice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u684	Then there's a motion that looks forward. Then we are talking about abolishing the childcare allowance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the complex and bureaucratic surcharge system should be replaced by a simpler, citizen-friendly and fair system, as expressed by the Chamber in the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion;]] [[whereas the cabinet response to the report announced unprecedented injustice that the current childcare allowance would disappear in the long term;]] [[Whereas targeted variants have been developed to replace the childcare allowance and to make childcare cheap or free including financial coverage, such as the recent child benefit scenarios passed on by the CPB;]] [[calls on the government to further develop the abolition of the childcare allowance before the cabinet formation, including a timetable, implementation test and a coverage proposal in line with the above-mentioned child benefit scenarios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u685	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u686	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u687	Thank you, Mr President. For the parents and children affected by the total failure of the government to protect them, this is far from over. The same applies to the debate in the Chamber, but that is small beer compared to the suffering these people still have to feel every day. The Chamber has certainly not yet spoken on this matter. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who continue to work hard on this issue. Mr. Chairman. I think the words you choose matter, too. In cases like this, that used to be the case with Groningen and the Q-fever, we have to do everything we can to restore confidence. We just have to conclude that we've completely lost confidence. And trust must be earned back. You can only do that by showing that you've really learned something and that you're really going to do it differently. I'm sorry to have to say it, but I don't see it with the Prime Minister. I don't know if I trust it completely with the CDA either. Pieter Omtzigt does a fantastic job, but the CDA is of course also a real power party. We are not here to give voting opinions, but it has to be said. Also because parents ask why these people continue. Recouping confidence requires more than we have achieved in today's debate. I have signed several motions, from GroenLinks and other colleagues, because there is, fortunately, a lot of pressure on the cabinet to solve this misery. The room is always missionary. I say that every time a cabinet is a missionary and it happens every four years just before the elections. So don't make such a drama out of that. We are simply going to continue to propose that we do not cause these problems again, that the concrete rot in our rule of law be restored as soon as possible and that we do everything we can not call for any new surcharges on vulnerable people. One of the points that calls for a separate motion from the Animal Party is about the new law on linking data and on fighting fraud again on the basis of algorithms, while we really must have learned our lesson. This law has recently been passed by the Lower House and is now in the Upper Chamber. I think the cabinet should repeal this law at the request of the House of Representatives. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas automatic risk selection based on (self-learning) algorithms has played a major role in wrongly labeling parents as a "frauder";]] [[Whereas, despite the premium case, the use of (self-learning) algorithms by public authorities is increasing;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of SZW had to stop an algorithm intended for fraud detection (SyRI) by order of the judge because it was impossible for the court to check how this system works "under the bonnet';]] [[Whereas, at present, in the First Chamber, the Data Processing Act is being discussed by joint ventures (Super-SyRl) and that trade unions and civil rights organisations are being warned of new fees if this law is adopted;]] [[asks the Government to withdraw the Data Processing Act by means of partnerships,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u688	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u689	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u690	Madam President. Last Friday, the Prime Minister began his statement with Cort van der Linden, his distant predecessor, to refer to the state's task of protecting the weak. That's the protective shield that just went so wrong. The same Cort van der Linden, after an hour of debate on 9 December 1915, was very tired. He said in the direction of the Chamber: "The government has to prepare and defend itself for much of the year against all kinds of grievances from individual members. She has to prepare and defend herself on all kinds of topics. What is the result of that? That gradually, in the short period allocated to the government, the power of government is weakened and the desire with which ministers have acted to do something good for the country is undermined." And he wondered: "Honoured delegates, do you not also feel that constant contact with the Chamber for the Government is becoming a physical impossibility at this time?" Mr. Chairman. In contrast to the statements made by Cort van der Linden, more than a century later, there is progress in the goodwill with which the government takes up the supervisory role of the Chamber. That is why I would like to thank the rulers for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u691	But Mr. Van der Staaij, it was a cabinet that consisted of nine men. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u692	I don't want to know, Mr. Chairman! But there has indeed been a lot of improvement in many areas over 100 years. But at the same time, that is the seriousness of today's discussion, we see that the necessary obstacles have been and still are in this monitoring task. When it comes to information and information management, all kinds of plans have been made for improvement. The most important question I would like to ask in the second term is: how are we going to proceed with this? All things must be sorted out and further incorporated into legislation or policy rules. So my simple question is: do we have fixed moments where we as a Chamber are informed about how things are going to proceed with all good intentions? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to look at the co-legislative task. The Chamber also has to take this into account in order to see how we can play our role even better in the future. That is why I would like to table the next motion on that point in conclusion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to introduce an explicit test with the aim of reviewing the implementation of legislation and regulation one year after its introduction, the so-called introduction test;]] [[believes that not only is the role of the cabinet responsible for reviewing legislation and regulations, but that Parliament should also be given a stronger role and take the initiative, for example by holding hearings and round tables;]] [[Whereas, for example, it can be associated with the implementation test of the Cabinet;]] [[calls on the Presidium to draw up concrete proposals to strengthen Parliament's role to review and evaluate legislation, in line with the government's implementation test, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers, Mr Sneller and Mr Snels.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u693	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u694	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for answering the questions. Thank you to my fellow Members for sharing the arguments. Mr. Chairman. In the reply, it is clear that a group of Dutch people has been discriminated against, that Article 1 of the Constitution has been infringed, that a number of laws have been broken by officials and that they have acted unlawfully. I hope that after today the parents and children have a little more confidence that their concerns will also be shared in this Chamber and that we will soon be working on the implementation of the recovery operation. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Finance, including the Tax Administration, signed the Charter Diversity on 25 November 2015;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has thereby indicated its desire to be an inclusive organisation and to effectively promote diversity policies in which everyone feels valued and welcome;]] [[Considering that for five years now, the Tax Administration has been setting out, on patient paper, good intentions and smarter objectives in its approach plans;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the culture of diversity and inclusiveness, making it possible to understand the results of the plans of action over the past five years at least:]] [[the inflow and throughflow;]] [[maintaining employees with a non-Western migration background;]] [[awareness and prevention of (unconscious) prejudices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a test of discrimination on all legislative proposals, administrative measures, policy protocols and practices on the front,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government recognises that staff should be sufficiently aware of the rules on the use of sensitive personal data such as nationality and that particular attention will be paid to this subject in the framework of the Culture Programmes of the Tax Administration and Fees;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor qualitatively and quantitatively the progress of the change of culture in the Tax Administration and Fees, as well as to monitor the level of knowledge of staff on the use of sensitive personal data such as nationality;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically inform the Chamber of this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Authority's Personal Data found that the way in which the Tax Administration operates was contrary to the law and discriminatory;]] [[noting that there is not only within the Tax Administration but also within other government organisations and that there may be discrimination;]] [[noting that the government recognises that public employees should be sufficiently aware of the rules on the use of personal data such as nationality and that culture should be included in the public administration;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a diversity and inclusion officer to all relevant implementing bodies with a mandate to monitor an inclusive organisational culture where there is no place for discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Authority's Personal Data found that the way in which the Tax Administration operates was contrary to the law and discriminatory;]] [[noting that there is not only within the Tax Administration but also within other government organisations and that there may be discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a comprehensive screening of discrimination and ethnic profile of the working methods and organisational culture of all (semi) public authorities and implementing bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for years Supplements have used the character of nationality in its risk selection system and when asking in the context of research into the abuse of social security schemes;]] [[considers that this is discriminatory and should never discriminate against the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately and explicitly prohibit any direct or indirect use of nationality or ethnicity in the case of risk profiling in law enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-31]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Jetten and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u696	Mr President, two more motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that implementation organisations are increasingly using new technologies, including artificial intelligence, in the performance of their tasks;]] [[Considering that according to the Council of Europe, the use of Al for risk profiling in law enforcement may lead to discrimination and ethnic profiling;]] [[noting that the Council of Europe concludes that the current legislation is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a legal framework for the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms by implementing organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u697	And finally, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Authority's Personal Data found that the way in which the Tax Administration operates was contrary to the law and discriminatory;]] [[noting that the Ombudsman found that in dealing with affected parents several legal provisions have been infringed, such as the response mine in the General Administrative Law Act;]] [[Whereas several (former) executives involved knew, could have known, or should have known;]] [[Whereas this may be the case for taking decisions which constitute a criminal offence or are of such negligence that there may be a criminal offence;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 119 of the Constitution, the Chamber may consider a charge against (former) administrators for a criminal offence;]] [[speaks out of not letting discrimination go unpunished and considering a charge against all (former) executives concerned for a criminal offence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for presiding, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u699	Thank you. Did you have nine or ten motions now? I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share the view of my fellow Members that in the long term we should really get rid of the supplement system, not just the childcare allowance, but all the allowances. That would be much simpler. That should also be the priority of the newly elected cabinet. For the short term, it is of the utmost importance that parents are quickly and generously reimbursed what they are denied. We had a motion to allow private creditors and the government to play a role in this, but the PvdA filed almost the same motion. We do not have to do that. We will, of course, support that motion. We do have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislator must formulate laws in such a way that an implementing body always has some scope to provide tailor-made services and that the courts can provide adequate legal protection to citizens;]] [[calls on the Government as a rule to include in legislation a hardness clause and to amend existing legislation to this effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u701	The final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the main foundation of the (administrative) justice system is to protect citizens from the powerful government;]] [[Whereas judges of the Court of Justice of the Council of State failed to provide legal protection for individual citizens;]] [[Whereas judges should be more than "the mouth of the law" and should not necessarily assume that public authorities act lawfully;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a wide-ranging and independent examination of the extent to which "hard legislation" has failed in the legal protection of citizens and to do everything necessary in a structural manner to avoid repetition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u702	A brief question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u703	Do I hear a motion asking the government to have a ruling on the courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u704	No. We want an independent committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u705	Then I'll understand the motion a little bit better. The investigation's gonna be completely separate from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u706	Absolutely. Yes. Mr. Chairman. I wish all the parents who have been watching today and who are still waiting for a compensation strength. I hope that compensation will come to them very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u707	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u708	Mr. Chairman. The unprecedented injustice in the supplement scandal indicates a technocratic tunnel vision of the cabinet in which the interests and lives of citizens were crushed. It showed how this government waltzes over ordinary people. A bureaucratic moloch that sees the world through numbers in an Excel file and forgets about humanity. What happened in the supplemental scandal is heartbreaking, unforgivable and unacceptable. When you read the reports of individual cases, your stomach turns. How did this happen? Is this the Netherlands we choose? The Rutte cabinet took some kind of responsibility, but it is not credible. In the end, they just stay in their seats, they just stay in their posts, except I can't say it often enough.Lodewijk Asscher, who, although I disagree with him on a number of structural and many points, has taken the real responsibility. That's not happening here. The real consequence is not drawn. Easy, you know, a few weeks before the election just sort of resign and then just keep going. The real lessons are not taught either, because the problem is structural and much bigger than just with regard to this particular dossier. The gap between government and citizens is widening. On the whole, it is forgotten that it is not a matter of figures in the administration of the country. It's not about statistics. It's about people. Not only in the supplemental scandal, we see this again. Day in, day out, the interests of normal, hardworking people in the Netherlands are forgotten, in the name of abstract goals and guidelines. The legal, accounting nitrogen problem is crushing the peasantry. The immigration dossier: in the name of abstract ideas about problems in countries far away, we have to accept that our streets are becoming more unsafe and people are experiencing more and more immigration problems. And also in the corona file we actually see the same mindset: companies that could simply open without any problem have been kept closed for months. People watch their life's work go to waste. The ggz is ringing the bell. The number of crisis reports in youth-ggz has increased by 66%. 166% increase in reports of child abuse in March last year alone. Half of SMEs are falling over, our social life is standing still, the whole country is slowly getting depressed: all because of some sort of accounting idea about corona. The cabinet is not gone, not even after this debate. Lessons have not been learned, not even after this debate. They are now rubbing crocodile tears, pretending to quit, but the real problem remains: technocracy, Excel thinking and Powerpoint managers. That brings me to a motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are talking here about an unprecedented injustice and that the victims must be compensated as soon as possible;]] [[noting that it is important for the public authorities to draw lessons from the surcharge scandal, including in other areas;]] [[Whereas the public authorities should not waltz over people like a steamroller;]] [[Whereas a curfew is an unprecedented limitation of personal life;]] [[calls on the government not to introduce curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u709	We have an extremely difficult dossier here on the rule of law and on parents. Anything can come up, but I don't understand why motions on curfews are being tabled tonight. Tomorrow they could be discussed in the Corona debate. Then I could very well imagine them; I would even fully support the author. Does this mean that we are going to raise every issue in each debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u710	No. What is really at stake here, apart from all the elements that we have discussed extensively today, is that it is ultimately also a broader theme. What kind of society do we want to be? What kind of social governance do we want to be? Do we want to be a country which, in this way, also violates the interests of millions of people in other cases? Or are we going to learn from what has happened, try to prevent this for the future and be a truly humane, SME-friendly and freedom-loving society in which everyone has their rights? That is why I think it is incredibly important not to see it in isolation. Of course, we often do that in the Chamber. We are talking about one subject and the next day we are talking about another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u711	Good. This is a second term. We're not gonna do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u712	I propose to take one step back and take a broader perspective, because what is happening now with all the crushing corona rules in my view has certain similarities with the crushing of people in the surcharge scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u713	Once again, I've completely lost my fellow minister. If we are trying to do justice to these parents, several colleagues have done so in different ways, then I can imagine different motions. I don't always have to agree with that. But if we're going to involve curfew, corona and everything in every debate, I'm sure of one thing. Then we can never pick up a fundamental problem here, then we can never ask the government, so that we can get the information up, but then everyone has their own hobby at every political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u714	You've made your point, Mr. Ommzigt. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Wait a minute, wait a minute. I don't really want to have a discussion about curfew in the second term. You've filed your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u715	I would, however, like to legitimize and clarify my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u716	You already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u717	Look, there is of course a great danger in any democratic politics or in any professionalized administrative body that you no longer see through the trees the forest, that you see one thing and focus entirely on it. I congratulate Mr Omtzigt on that: he has focused very well on this dossier. He's revealed unprecedented injustice. But it is also our job to see things in a broader context and to see that there is structural government failure, not occasional government failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u718	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u719	I have three motions, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas administrative justice has neglected its important function of legal protection of individual citizens in relation to the victims of the supplementing affair;]] [[whereas the Council of State has announced an investigation into previous judgments with disproportionate consequences for citizens, even if the law of the judge calls for strict action;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this investigation is organised independently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas the authorities also damage citizens on other files, such as Groninger gas extraction, reclassifications without the support of residents and youth care, where innocent children are locked up;]] [[speaks of setting up an independent Schoon Schip committee to identify the damage to citizens caused by reprehensible government transactions and make proposals to repair the damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-355110-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u720	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after years, power can become self-evident to the ruler;]] [[Whereas, in a democracy, the majority of voters should be in power, not a prime minister, a minister or senior officials;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a maximum period for directors and senior officials can contribute to a stronger democracy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u721	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u722	Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that affected parents from the child care allowance affair will receive a recovery/compensation for the material and intangible damage suffered by them through a compensation scheme;]] [[noting that only the applicant parent of the childcare allowance is eligible for compensation and compensation;]] [[Whereas compensation and compensation for damage caused to the family, for example with regard to the development of children growing up in poverty, is not sufficiently recognised and compensated;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the compensation and compensation, which is now only aimed at the applicant, to partners, ex-partners and children of the applicant;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the affected parents from the childcare allowance affair, apart from debt to the Tax Office and any other public authorities, are often also in debt to private parties as a result of the undue recovery of childcare allowance;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to eliminating all debts of affected parents from the childcare allowance affair to public authorities, to accept the debts of these affected parents to private parties arising from the improper recovery of childcare allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a service team of disabled children's care allowance has been set up for the recovery of child care allowance with the aim of restoring what has gone wrong;]] [[noting that parents whose childcare allowance has been discontinued between 2005 and 2019 and who do not know why the childcare allowance has stopped are eligible for assistance;]] [[Calls on the Government to extend the service team of disabled children's care allowance to the Service Team of disabled persons Supplements and to open them widely to those whose care allowance, rent allowance and child-related budget were unjustly discontinued between 2005 and 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen, Marijnissen and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen, Marijnissen and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35510-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u723	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u724	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Van der Staaij's question: how to proceed? As we also say in the cabinet response, we would now like to continue the discussion with the Chamber. We want to develop the measures more closely over the next period and provide for implementation tests. We believe that implementing and developing from day one together with the performers, co-governments and different target groups is essential. Once that has been done, a further planning for implementation will be made. In any case, two consultations are planned with the State Secretary for Finance in the coming period. Then you can talk to them about it. On February 1st is the note-consultation and on February 10th is the AO Restoration. Mr Hoekstra had already answered this question about the pause button. The whole tragedy is, as he also sketches, that it took a long time. For CAF 11 this was done at the time, but for the other CAF cases the information collection was ongoing and had to be re-examined. In the end, that didn't happen until November. If you look back on it now, it's clear that you would have wanted all that sooner. I would like to add one thing, by the way. I cannot quote from the mr-notes, but it is not just about the political dimension that has been mentioned. The Ministerial Councils also discussed the desirability of meeting the affected parents, including in the Council of Ministers of July 2019. In July other CAF cases and the ADR investigation were considered, in order to examine the extent to which similar errors had been made for all cases. That was not sufficiently clear at the time. However, I can agree with the answer given by Hoekstra: it is indeed regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u725	So the government acknowledges that it should have pressed the pause button in June, July?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u726	If you look back on it, sure, yeah, of course. No doubt about that. However, with the knowledge that was there, that did not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u727	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u728	Well, the Prime Minister said earlier in this debate that the full extent of the problem reached the cabinet in June. Well, if the full size got through then, then that moment was just the time to press the pause button, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u729	No, I said this. Soon, the Council of Ministers of the beginning of June will report on what he knows at that time. That scares us all. Then he's still figuring things out. He does. On 11 June, the CAF 11 case suspended the settlement of charges with current surcharges for parents, because there were clear and obvious problems there. That picture was not sufficiently clear for the other CAF cases. The ADR looked into that at the time. About 170 cases were found to be similar to CAF 11 cases. In August, Snel asked for official advice on how to handle the pause button for the other CAF cases. In September, the administrative advice was given on those other CAF cases: waiting for Donner's opinion, suspending the recovery measures could have far-reaching consequences, etc. The feeling of Finance was that stopping in all other CAF cases could be undesirable. That was an internal decision. In November, the enforcement proceedings for all CAF cases were finally suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u730	Mr. Overzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u731	I'm surprised. I didn't know there was official advice in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u732	He asked for it in August. Here's what I've got here. I'm just reading it now, the notes from the Treasury. In August 2019, Secretary of State Snel asked for an official opinion on how to handle the pause button for other CAF cases. The Secretary of State got that in September. That was then an internal decision of the Treasury. In November 2019, the enforcement proceedings for all CAF cases were suspended. I'm reading this to you under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. I don't have those details.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u733	Good. No, no, Mr. Ommzigt. This is all information that is now being communicated. I understand you want another debate and a general discussion. I would then, in writing, involve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u734	Mr President, that is fine. The only other commitment I had forgotten is that hopefully in the last week of June we will be reporting progress on all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u735	Yeah, we made that deal. You mean about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u736	The progress of last Friday's letter and all the things that are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u737	Yeah, yeah, we got that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u738	So here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u739	This really needs to be done with the rulers of finance. I don't have the details of this myself. One more thing before I get to the motions. That's about taking over those private debts. I would like to echo what has been said about this by the Secretary of State for Finance. I am very glad that the Dutch Railways have done this now. I also very much support her appeal, on behalf of the entire cabinet, to do the same. This, of course, affects energy companies, housing companies, banks and health insurance companies. That would really help. I'll make that call through the camera of the House of Representatives to the energy companies, the housing corporations, the banks and the health insurance companies. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Dijkhoff did not ask for comments from the cabinet. The motion in part No. 8 by Mr Wilders, I advise. The motion in part No. I also advise 9 of Mr Wilders. The Municipal Basic Registration now known as "Underground Registration" has been registering only the first nationality since 2014, precisely in order to prevent people with two nationalities across generations from being confronted with that second nationality. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 9. I also advise against the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Wilders. Recently, in December, the rules of conduct between officials and members of parliament have been relaxed. The cabinet is now much more relaxed in the relations between the Chamber and officials and will give a favourable assessment of any request for contact with officials, but it is important that ministers continue to carry out the ministerial responsibility for the administration. This also follows from our constitutional system of ministerial responsibility. The motion in part No. 10 is therefore dissuaded. The motion in part No. 11 by Mr Omtzigt c.s. It's not up to the cabinet, is it? No. Then I shouldn't say anything about that. I'm not gonna judge that. The motion by Mr Omtzitt/Van Dam in part No. 12 is about the State Commission functioning rule of law. I request that they be retained. The cabinet will come before 17 March with a response to the ROB opinion and the annual report of the Council of State, and in the spring with a response to the documents of the WODC. So I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 12 to be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Motion in part No. 12, hold on. The motion for a resolution (Doc. 15 gets, as far as I'm concerned, judgment Chamber. The cabinet response has already stated that the principle of proportionality must be guiding. I would therefore like to interpret the motion in such a way that we look at how the general principles can be more firmly anchored in the Awb and that the way and scope are involved. So motion to part No. 15, Judgment Room. The motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 16 about the algorithms also gets judgment Room. The Cabinet recognises the need to ensure that algorithms do not discriminate and that the government should be as transparent as possible. I welcome the fact that nationality, ethnicity and place of birth will in principle not be used as an indicator in risk models for combating fraud, unless there is an objective justification for such data processing. By that remark, it receives a ruling from the Court of Justice. That is going to be quite a situation, because it is a lot of information. So we will also have to look at how we can set up a register that describes which complex algorithms the government uses and which have a substantial impact on individuals or society. The motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. I'd like to advise against 17. Minister Dekker informed the Chamber of the additional budget released for legal aid, in particular in the field of personal and family law, and the adjustments to the system which enabled him to free up funds in a forward-looking manner. The Minister also promised the House of Representatives earlier that this would be his response to the Van der Meer Committee, which asked for 170 million euros. This subject will also be discussed tomorrow in the general consultation on subsidised legal aid. So the motion in part No. 17, dissuade. The motion in part No. 19 on the parliamentary survey does not require an opinion from the cabinet. The motion Segers c.s. in piece No. 25 also does not ask for a reaction from the cabinet. The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 28 is also a motion that does not ask for a reaction from the cabinet. The motion Azarkan/Van Kooten-Ariës in part No. 30, judge Room. As part of the legislative test, this is already done by the Ministry of Justice. The Azarkan motion in part No. 32 I'd like to ask you to hold. I understand his desire to do diversity for the government in this way too, but I would argue that this motion should be held until after the national coordinator's investigation against discrimination, so that we can take it one step at a time. So the motion in part No. 32 I ask you to hold. The motion in part No. 33 is about broad screening discrimination. If I may interpret it in such a way as to involve this in the already announced state committee, I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the House. The motion Azarkan/Van Kooten-Ariës in part No. 34 I must advise against. If there is an objective justification for the use of nationality or ethnicity, this is permissible, for example when it comes to electoral fraud by individuals from certain countries. However, unjustified use of nationality or ethnicity must be rejected. Of course, we agree on that. The Azarkan motion in part No. 35 I'm judging Chamber. We support the need to look at this. We need to consider what legislation could possibly regulate this. I want to keep the possibility open that we are not laying this down in formal legislation, but first in guidelines, because the issue is so evolving that we need to be able to adapt the standards quickly. The motion Azarkan/Van Kooten-Ariës in part No. 36 doesn't ask for a ruling from the cabinet, I guess. No. The Van Brenk motion in part No. 38 I must advise against. It calls for an independent investigation into the removal of the administrative justice chapter from the Council of State. I have already explained in my first term that we see no reason in the report to review the organisation now. I have also mentioned that the Council of State itself is already in the process of reflecting on this. So motion to part No. 38, not recommended. The motion in part No. 39. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 40, also dissuaded. As a cabinet, we are not going to interfere in the design of the investigation announced by the Council of State. The Krol motion in part No. 41 does not ask for a response from the cabinet. Finally, I would like to make the motion in part No. 42 as this could pose a problem for some members of the cabinet. So motion to part No. 42. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u740	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u741	Mr. Chairman. I pulled the lottery Azarkan two more times. One question was left behind from my first term. We had an exchange of views on the follow-up given to the Ombudsman's report. I indicated that there was something about that in the transfer file. I referred to a piece at the time, but I would still look into whether that was a note on the ministry or a piece that went to the Chamber. It is indeed a note. That note indicates that the Ombudsman's recommendations are taken on board. That is where I have just asked the previous Secretary of State also extensively reflected on his questioning by the Van Dam Committee. So the only thing I want to make clear is that the information is correct as I gave it in the first period, but that it is indeed an internal note. Mr. Chairman. Now that Mr Azarkan and I have resolved this, I am in favour of the motion on item No. 29 of his hand to do research into the culture of diversity and inclusiveness. That is what we wanted to understand as if it were not just the Tax Service/Admissions and Customs but also the core department. That's why I'm handling the motion here. I'd like to give that motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u742	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll get right on the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I have indicated that we are making every effort to do so as soon as possible, but it is not possible within one month. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 7 also belongs to Mr Wilders. This calls for the debt of private creditors to be taken over. I made a call. I think it's a good thing we're looking at that first. I would therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mr Jetten on the removal of registration at the BKR. I also find this incredibly important. I have also spoken to many parents who think that is important and are talking to the BKR. I'd be happy to pass that on, so I'm going to give this motion judgment chamber. Then the motion to part No. 20 by Mrs Marijnissen on the Children's Fund. I'd really like to make a good arrangement for children. We have also set aside 200 million for this. Your proposal is to allow the implementation of this by an independent party. I can support that. I would also like to take with me the ideas that are being developed within the Child Panel at the moment. The motion at No. So 20 gets judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 21 by Mrs Marijnissen on the blacklist, informing and cleaning up. I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement, but I would like to make a comment on the question of all this before 1 March. I do not think that is feasible with regard to the first point. So I would ask that we give more time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u744	What motion are you talking about? The one in part No. 21. Very briefly, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u745	Sure. The motion calls for "a proposal to be made before 1 March." We understand that it is probably not possible to get all this done before 1 March, but at least we are asking for a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u746	Then that is good, because it is also about informing those people about it. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 22 by Mrs Marijnissen on the implementation of compensation by an independent third party and the legal nailing. I'd like to dissuade that motion. I think it is very important that we continue along this path to ensure that we do so as soon as possible, and that we do not delay that compensation further by letting another person go along with it. I would therefore advise against this motion. I shall go to Mrs Ploumen's motion on item No. 23. He asks to call on private creditors to join and asks the cabinet to work as soon as possible. I would like to leave this motion of censure Chamber, because it is a support for my appeal to private creditors. That call was just repeated by our Prime Minister. Then the motion to part No. 31 by Mr Azarkan. It calls for monitoring the progress of the change of culture in the Tax Administration. I'd like to leave that judgment room. We are working hard on this and we are also ensuring that it is properly monitored. Then the motion to part No. 43 by Mrs Van Kooten, who asks for the compensation to be extended to ex-partners. I could give that motion a Chamber's opinion if the explanation is that it concerns access to the Committee on Actual Damage. That is an agreement we made earlier, namely that access to it would be possible for ex-partners and children. If so, I can get this... I don't think I see Mrs. Van Kooten. Oh, sorry, there she is. I would therefore be able to leave this motion to the House of Commons. Then the motion to part No. 44 on taking over the debts of private parties. That motion was tabled in a different form by Mr Wilders. So I'd like to dissuade them, too. I would like to ask private parties, especially in the context of speed, to cancel parents' debts. This is too early now, so this motion has been dissuaded. The last motion for me is the motion in part No. 45 about expanding the service team. Our intention is next. The service team consists of the people on the phone and the parents. It is certainly intended to give access to people affected by problems such as the rent allowance or the child-related budget. We can't do that completely immediately, but we're trying to do that as soon as possible. I would therefore like to give this motion a ruling on Chamber. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u747	Thank you. I now turn to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u748	That's how I feel when that thing goes upstairs. Thank you, Mr President. A few more motions. The motion in part No. 13 of Mr Omtzigt, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij, I would like to give judgment to the Chamber. In my view, it is also very much in line with the letter I sent yesterday on the hardness of social security. I would like to mention one small reservation, because the pgbs are also mentioned here. I think it is nice to record this with the colleague of VWS. They were already enjoying their night's sleep. That's what they deserve in that ministry. With that little comment, this judgment gets Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u749	I see that remark is not in-house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u750	No, exactly. The motion in part No. 18 is a Chamber of Commerce. So we don't have to find any of that. The motion in part No. 24 of Mr Ploumen and Mr Jetten I would like to give judgment to Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 26. Of course, we've done all those SVK scenarios. They've really worked out as far as they can. It just takes political decision-making in a formation at some point that you're about to do. What we can still do, also just for a moment, given the capacity that still exists in my ministry, because certainly the KO department is very busy, also with everything that has to do with corona, is to take a closer look at which performers would fit best with those different scenarios. We can also indicate some coverage options. You are asking for a proposal for cover, but that is, of course, a decision in a formation. If I may limit it this way, I can give the motion judgment chamber. I'll take a look at the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u751	Yeah? There's a nod, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u752	I see a careful yes. If I can write it down like that, she'll be judged Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 27 on the repeal of the law. That law has only just been dealt with here in the Lower House, so we see no reason to do so. Now it's up to the First Chamber to find some of that. The motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Van Brenn, I also like to give judgement Chamber. I think we've had the whole list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u753	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u754	I think we will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday, because I believe that many groups still have to look at the motions internally. I want to thank everyone. I think a lot of parents have been watching. I hope that this debate has helped to alleviate the suffering of recent years. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Of course, I would also like to thank the messengers and the stenography service. Of course, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament. I'll see you at home. I'll see you tomorrow.
