ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the report by Mr Tjeenk Willink on his work. Before we proceed to the debate, I think it is important to review a number of agreements or rules with Members of Parliament. We have done this here first, but I think it is also nice for the viewers at home to know what this debate is about and what the directives or agreements are about. Before we proceed to that, I would, of course, like to start by welcoming Mr Tjeenk Willink. He's in "K." It's very nice that you want to be there. The purpose of this debate is to appoint a new informant and to define the mandate. That is the framework of this debate. Speaking time is four minutes per group. First, the Chamber will speak in the first term. I shall then give the floor to Mr Tjeenk Willink. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and its interpretation, Mr Tjeenk Willink is not here to answer, but to provide information. After his term, there is an opportunity to ask factual questions. Of course, there is the possibility of an internal debate, i.e. a debate between groups. I just agreed on that: three interruptions in two. Interruptions are brief and concise, without any comprehensive introduction. If that happens quickly, I am quite prepared to apply some flexibility, but let us first see if these interruptions are indeed short and concise. It is not yet time, but I would like to say to Members that we also have a second deadline. Then speech-expressions addressed to the Chamber may also be submitted. It is not intended to submit motions addressed to the informant or the new informant, because the new informant has not yet been established either. These are the agreements and the directives. I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mr Eerdmans, who had already informed me that he had a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. There's a name going around from Mrs. Hamer. It would have been appointed, or at least would be appointed today, to succeed Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant. We don't know anything about that. Did I miss an email, a letter or a phone call in which it was submitted? Are there any colleagues who know more about this? It's hanging over the market, and I'm curious what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Your question is very much in line with the purpose of this debate. That is to determine the informant with each other. I would therefore ask you to put the questions you have on this matter to the parties that are there. I read the name myself in the press. The purpose of the debate is to establish an informant with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	But, Madam President, we've been talking about a new culture here for six weeks. That word has become a kind of abstract phenomenon within which all kinds of things can occur. Apparently, a name has been shared. That name doesn't just fall out of the sky. Then it is bizarre that we are now having a discussion with the old informant, when apparently it has already been discussed with the parties I can point them out, I think it has been discussed? We have discussed the previous candidates at the Rookshow, both Mr Tjeenk Willink and the scouts. This is just gonna fall out of the sky and we're gonna have to do it with it. Is that the story? 'Cause then I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	The purpose of this debate is to identify the new informant. I think that's important. You have the opportunity to ask questions about this to the parties present. I'd advise you to do the same. That's what the debate is about. I understand your point, but it is good to allow the debate to take place on this subject. I'd like to advise you on that. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. This is, I think, a little too easy, because Mr Eerdmans is absolutely right. The procedure has so far been such that, under your guidance, we have agreed somewhere in a room here whether there was sufficient support for a candidate for informant. Then you and others spoke to the press. But if I may believe the press, certain groups have already been sobered up. So there has been contact with a number of groups, by telephone or in person, about who should be the next informant. The non-sponsored parties are, of course, the parties that will not participate in the next round. They're in their shirt. They have an information deficit. If you too, as President-in-Office of the Council, take it seriously, you didn't call us together for nothing last time, you can't do that now with the story 'ask Mark Rutte or Wopke Hoekstra'. We have had this procedure. It is crazy that the outcome of this debate has already been established, namely Mrs Hammer of the Labour Party as an informant, and that we, as MPs, do not know anything about the opposition. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think that the debate is intended to ask such questions as well: which parties are sobered up and which parties are not? I know, however, that the so-called Smoke Salon meetings in which this is discussed have actually only been held in the electoral phase. We are now in the information phase, and that is what we are discussing. I do agree with you that it is a good idea to clarify this issue with each other, and that is why this debate also needs to be conducted and to see whether there is sufficient support for the new informant. So I understand the questions and I will also give the opportunity to ask the questions about them. Then I suggest that we start the debate. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD for his first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr President, thank you. First of all for the administration: there is a motion from Mrs Kaag of D66 in which we put forward a proposal for the follow-up and indeed a name for that follow-up. I think that is also in line with how we have been doing this since 2012, namely, after the elections, a discussion led by the President to talk about a scout. Then, when that phase is over, motions will be tabled by the largest party or by the major parties on how the trial should be continued. That's being discussed here, so I don't think anything weird is happening here. That's for the administration. I thought I would challenge Mr Wilders with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's right. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Then we might as well stop the debate. Because Mr Rutte is simply saying that he is coming up with a proposal with Mrs Kaag. All the tension, whether D66 has anything of new leadership left, for her great objections and a motion of censure against Rutte, it's all gone. All reporters can go home. We all know it now: at the end of this debate there will be a motion from the VVD and D66 saying that Mrs Hammer will be the new informant. The party's just gonna go on. It goes on, with Mr Rutte, with Mrs Kaag. I am sure that Mr Hoekstra will also vote in favour of this motion. I can imagine Mrs Ploumen is going to do the same. So perhaps we can do something else today, Mr President, because the outcome of this debate is already clear. This shows what a huge farce and a charade has become politics in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's bullshit! What a total bullshit! We've been doing this since 2012. Since the King was removed from the formation process, the President has taken the initiative to bring parties together after elections and to say: who are we to explore how we will think about how to start the formation process during the transition phase from the old Chamber to the new Chamber? Then the conversation takes place at the Smoking Salon, talking about backrooms, but necessary, there is no other way. That's after the election. Now that that has happened, after a failed reconnaissance we finally agreed on Herman Tjeenk Willink to manage the matter in the right direction. That's what happened; he's got his report out. This happened in the 2012 elections and in the 2017 elections. So the times we do this without King it is common for the largest party or the largest parties to come up with a motion in which they say a "this should be the assignment for the next phase" and b say "this could be a name for that next phase." That is not strange; that is the way it should be, in a Chamber that takes the initiative in the information itself. I wasn't for that, my party wasn't for that. We are in favour of the King continuing to play that role. There is a majority against that. We have to relate to that; you sometimes have to take your loss. That means that now the Chamber has to make that decision. That can only be done by means of a ruling in the form of a motion. So what Mr Wilders is doing here, giving the impression that something undemocratic is happening, I'm sorry, that's just not true and he knows it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, Madam President, that is not my point. My point is that before this debate begins, it is already in the newspapers who will be the informant and that the first thing you say in this debate, what an exciting debate should be... Is Mr Rutte getting sufficient support from D66? Does Mrs Kaag still believe that he does not really deserve the confidence, or at least deserves the disapproval? "Until here and no further, this is my limit," those were her words. Is the CDA Group still angry, if they have ever been angry at how Mr Rutte treated Mr Omtzigt? Is Mrs Ploumen going to say, after big words in the media, "my trust has not yet won it"? Is it gonna be exciting? Is there even a motion at the end of this debate to continue this information, with you still in it as Prime Minister? Is it even there? And what do you say at the beginning of the debate? I don't care about the procedure. I beg your pardon? "President, Mrs Kaag will shortly table a motion on my behalf that we simply continue with a new informant and yes, indeed, that is Mrs Hamer." All the excitement from the debate; it's just been set up. You've just been with everyone... you've just arranged that motion with Mrs. Kaag. Mr Hoekstra will also sign it, or at least he will support it. I predict you, Mrs Ploumen, who is now sitting, will simply vote in favour of this motion. It just gets there. Then we're totally fucked up here! Well, then we're gonna be fucked up here, aren't we? What are we doing here? It's not the procedure that matters to me, but the point is that it's already been set up and that you're already saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	This is an important point, Madam President. What are we doing here all day, if we already know from Mr Rutte that he is just going to continue with Mrs Kaag and that we are just about to sit with a cabinet of Rutte IV, in which the cutters of the Christian Union are being replaced by the Labour Party? That's what's gonna happen. That's a big farce. We might as well go home now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	I can reassure Mr Wilders: it can still end in a Wilders I cabinet, because there is no motion for a Rutte IV cabinet. It may still end in me kicking Mr Wilders out of his chair as leader of the opposition. You can still do that. There's nothing in the motion about who's going to be the new prime minister. That motion is about two things. One. It says how we want to align the process further, step by step, on the basis of the report by the informant and the procedures outlined by him for the follow-up, which we are responsible for. Two. Indeed, Mrs Hamer is presented as an informant, exactly as we did in 2012 and as we did in 2017, when, in the various steps of the formation, without the King, we had to decide as a Chamber who would take the next step, with what mission. That motion is therefore also tabled by Mrs Kaag in the first term. And why? Because it's part of the discussion now. Then Mr Wilders can relate to that, just like everyone else. But there is no question that anyone in this Chamber, except the VVD Group, would have said: we want Rutte back as Prime Minister. Whoever that becomes, we'll all see later. It is now a matter of content. This motion will also outline this: the debate must take place on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Maybe it's okay to add a little extra. I feel that need as a trial counselor of this formation process. There are indeed those meetings at the Rookshop, with all the group chairmen. They're taking place in the reconnaissance phase. At some point, when we are a step further, the objective is that we have a debate to establish the mandate, as the leader of the VVD states. Then we'll also point out the informant. As usual, therefore, parties are consulted to see if there is support for it. I know this is common practice. How far that probe ring goes is the question. I can imagine it very well, and I would also like to give room for it in this debate. But the goal is to appoint an informant and also to provide an assignment. We've done that a number of times, now that the King is no longer part of this process. I feel the need to say this on the basis of my responsibility. Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, that's correct. It's all a bit unhappy. Mr Rutte says: we have been doing this since 2012. We still do a lot of things like in 2012, and I think we all want to get rid of that. I even think that Mr Tjeenk Willink agrees with that in his final report. Isn't it just a little inappropriate if you maintain this way of working? It's not even about your reflection on yourself, like Nieuwsuur, which I also have questions about. It is also about the fact that you will take the whole Chamber with you in that process of that name of the new informant, who is going to forge our new cabinet, the cabinet of the country. Isn't it a little old politics to think: we just do that as we did in 2012?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	No. The motion will be filed here. There are two signatures underneath which represent a total of 58 Chamber seats. Furthermore, this debate will have to show how other parties relate to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Colleagues Eerdmans and Wilders are of course quite right. The Prime Minister announced two days ago that he would like to have more debate here in this House. He's already starting with the results. He is already starting with the end, namely: no matter what happens and whatever we will say, he has arranged for Mrs Kaag, who sits on his lap, to submit the motion, which is new leadership, so that he does not have to do so himself. He's second signatory. Then, of course, sufficient support has been provided. Is this what Mr Rutte meant at Nieuwsuur when he said that the Chamber can provide more input and that the Chamber can participate in the debate in determining the outcome of matters? Is this the new governance culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	I've heard a lot of reactions to my own interview at Nieuwsuur. Also on the view that there may be even more and more dramatic administrative changes in the Netherlands. I would advise Mr Azarkan to put the bell cognac aside and tell us what he wants to change about the culture of administration. That goes for all the colleagues here. Then you'll continue to debate that together. I have made my contribution and will do so again today on request. But it's a joint responsibility. I feel a special responsibility for this because of the debate on 1 April. My big mistake was not knowing about calling Pieter Ommzigt in the conversation on Monday morning with the two scouts. So it starts with me, but it really is a responsibility of us as a Chamber as a whole. So again, call cognac on the side; everyone will also make their contribution to the discussion. We're going to build a new governance culture together. That at that point. Then on the point of this motion. There's no other way. Since 2012, we have removed the King from the trial. I found and find that an unwise decision by the majority of the House of Representatives. I thought it wise that our monarch was, in the past, the one who is responsible in this country for ensuring that the formation process is managed calmly, step by step and completely transparently. We've stopped doing that; we're doing that now as a room. This places a particular responsibility on the part of Parliament, and this can only be done if the larger groups come forward with proposals on the follow-up to the formation. That's out of the question if you don't. We'll put that down in a minute. Anyone can talk about that. If there's a majority for that, great. And if that majority isn't there, fine, we're gonna do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	It is interesting that Mr Rutte reviews his own performance and concludes that he thought it was a great performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	I thought it was a pleasant performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	The rest of the Netherlands looked at it differently. I understood that Mrs Kaag saw some bright spots, but I talked to a conductor about that and he thought it was a big play. And who's gonna fall for that gig now? Mr President, that is also the essence. We would also be talking here about this renewed trust. We have asked Tjeenk Willink to investigate in particular whether there is sufficient trust. The Prime Minister is completely ignorant of that. He's already here. He's got all the trust of others, and he's already there. He'll be the next prime minister of this country. And of course it won't be Wilders I; you know damn well. That play, stop it! Take the Chamber seriously, inform and listen to the arguments. Then you can always file a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	This motion is not about who will be the next Prime Minister of the Netherlands. The motion follows the advice of Tjeenk Willink. That advice from Tjeenk Willink was sensible and I think we all suggested it in all kinds of forms, namely: conduct the debate on the basis of the content. We have done the same. In the motion that Mrs Kaag will table, you will see that. We take that whole advice, the timeline and the suggestion for those who can guide that process. There is no talk of trust in Rutte or trust in others, or of who should be the prime minister. We are going to discuss the content of the proposal first, and we will see who we are going to discuss it with later. That could still end in the VVD going into opposition. That could end up being the VVD in the government. Yeah, there'd be a Rutte IV. If that doesn't happen, I'm going to lead the opposition. It's all still possible. This motion concerns the question: how do we define this substantive discussion on recovery, on the major social issues? Who's gonna guide that and how did that get back here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to ask both of you whether you can talk about Mr Tjeenk Willink. That seems so neat to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Apologies. We're a little too homey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	I mean that always with the utmost respect for Mr Tjeenk Willink, should I have said otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	But, Mr President, on the major issues, we sometimes talk about the corona crisis and the national recovery plan. But it's about the national recovery plan in Rutte's confidence. That is what we have been working on over the past few weeks. And the question is, what's the situation now? He can throw that away every time by saying: no, it's about other things; it's not about me, it's about us all restoring that trust with each other. No, here's just a lying Prime Minister who's been fighting the Chamber for four and a half years. He acted in such a way that Omtzigt is now at home in Twente, because he opposed him and because he had the bales of it. That's not gonna be in your cold clothes. That's what we need to talk about. We must not go away from it by saying that it has already been set up and we are going to do it as we always did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	I shall leave Mr Azarkan's analysis over the last four and a half years, because that would require a detailed response from me, and I do not think it would be appropriate at all. The fact is that there was a very intense debate on 1 April following a major mistake I made. I then asked myself whether it was therefore primarily up to me to reflect on the administrative culture, the relationship between government and parliament, the role of parliament, the role of people in society vis-à-vis the government and the role of professionals in the Netherlands in police, care and education, for whom we must ensure that they can perform their duties properly. But then it is also a responsibility of all of us to continue that conversation. I have now given an impetus; perhaps I can say something about this today. Then we will all have to do so. Indeed, I have a particular responsibility there because of that debate on 1 April. But it is now also a joint responsibility. In addition, the country also needs to be governed once again, so it is also necessary that we discuss the major issues from the point of view of content. It's not about what these subjects are. If it would be a problem to make a catalogue of the subjects, Mr. Azarkan, then I think we'll have another one this afternoon. The point is that you have to agree on the substance of what direction you are going with defence and security, the position of the middle class in the Netherlands, SMEs, education, nitrogen, climate, all the major societal issues that lie ahead, also against the background of the recovery that is needed after the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	Then I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr President, I have a point in your direction. I have to say that I find it a little complicated that you, as President, take over Mr Rutte's reading that the debate here is in accordance with the procedures regarding the appointment of an informant. Something has happened in the meantime and this is not a normal formation. The Chamber has adopted a motion in which the informant has been specifically instructed to investigate whether and, if so, how confident there can be. Of course, that is what this debate must be about. We shouldn't skip that step. We should not say that this debate is about appointing an informant. This motion has been put to the vote and has been adopted unanimously. I would therefore appreciate it if we could organise the debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	This is a question to me, and I get the question. In the introduction I wanted to put the context of this debate. Of course you are finally free to give your own interpretation. But the goal is to see if we are going to be in the phase where we can see if there is sufficient support for a new informant and for an assignment. That's the process we're in in terms of formation. That is the purpose of this debate. Of course, we had a very wide-ranging debate on trust issues not so long ago, but of course you decide how the debate takes place. You're absolutely right about that. But I think it's been good to give a framework, looking at the stage we're in in terms of formation. So I indicated my request as a procedural officer in the introduction, and that is in line with what the Prime Minister said about it. But you are absolutely right: you ultimately decide how to shape and content this debate. And that's what I want to give space and freedom for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	You are, of course, right to have to monitor the process as chairman and the agreements we have made on this in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	But I hope that the Chamber can also expect the President to consider the motion which has been adopted in the interim and which makes this formation completely different from all the other formations, as much as the rest of the procedures. I expect you to give the room for that. So again, I find it a little complicated. I understand that it is convenient for Mr Rutte to talk only about the previous agreements, as if the whole motion had not been adopted. But I find it a little complicated when the President then says: Mr Rutte is right and this debate is about appointing an informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	I said that, apart from Mr Rutte's story, at the informal meeting we had before this debate. I've already said that in my kick-off. It corresponds to Mr Rutte's story, and that is nice; it could not have been agreed. You also know that we have had a very extensive and long debate, in which I have given all the space and freedom to talk about it. Once again, you determine the content of the debate, but I wanted to give you a direction and a framework, as it should be in my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that this debate is not 'a normal debate', in a normal formation process. We're like, "What is it?" Two months beyond the election day. Two months! The whole formation process so far is a farce and we are farther away from a new cabinet than ever. In fact, we have been on the road for two months and, except perhaps by Mr Tjeenk Willink, no decent step has been taken. That makes this debate fundamentally different. I am also surprised by Mr Rutte's contribution. Mr Rutte, of course, spoke earlier as Mrs Kaag's spokesman, and I do not think that was very good at the time. But he is taking that role again today by presenting here that Mrs Kaag is about to say that confidence has apparently recovered sufficiently. It was the task of Mr Tjeenk Willink to investigate whether that confidence could be restored sufficiently. Well, apparently that is the case and we must now hear it from Mr Rutte. That complicates the debate. In addition, the name of such an informant was already in the media yesterday. Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag and everyone here are free to make a proposal today. Of course! But there is again plenty of talk about the name of such an informant and parties would have been sunk. Well, the SP doesn't know anything and the SP hasn't been asked and fooled. That makes this place very, very uncomfortable. The parties are allowed to make a proposal, of course, but here it has been leaked in the media once again, the Chamber is put back in front of a done fact, Mr Rutte is acting again as spokesperson for Mrs Kaag and nothing has changed in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	Perhaps it would be a good idea for Mr Rutte to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. All I've done is say there's going to be a motion from Mrs Kaag and me. She'll be filing it in a minute. So that is really different from what Mrs Ploumen is suggesting here. I'm sorry, what Mrs. Marijnissen is suggesting. Yeah, all those Lilians. But that motion isn't about trusting Mark Rutte. That's not what this motion is about. This motion is based on Mr Tjeenk Willink's report on how we can further align the content of the formation. Anyone who becomes the next prime minister will have to be determined after the substantive phase of the formation if it is up to the VVD. You know the position of the VVD. If the VVD is in that cabinet, it's me. If we don't, we'll go into opposition. That's the VVD position. We have 34 seats. There are still far too few for a majority. So first we talk about the content and then we see which parties would like to participate. If that worked out, you'd be looking at the humanization of a cabinet like that. But again, that is the order of steps as the VVD sees from the past. So whether or not there's faith in me, that's not what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	At least we know that Mark Rutte's heart is overflowing with Mrs Ploumen, because he even thinks of me as Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	I spent four years in a cabinet with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is what we have already learned in this debate. I'm not saying the motion is about trusting the Prime Minister. I say: what I understand from you, Mr Rutte, is that Mrs Kaag is about to table a motion on the follow-up to this trial. But the idea was that this debate would be about this, and Mr Tjeenk Willink's mandate was to investigate whether that confidence could be restored sufficiently to follow up. Obviously, as Mrs Kaag's spokesman, you are now saying that this is the case and that this motion will be tabled immediately. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	No, I'm not. That's not true at all. Herman Tjeenk Willink, Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink, Mr Tjeenk Willink presented the situation. On that basis, he made proposals for the follow-up. The motion also outlines on the basis of his suggestions how we could do that and with which person. But it is not at all about whether Mark Rutte of the next cabinet is the prime minister. That's not what this motion is about. Mrs Kaag does not say anything about that in that motion. I'm announcing that motion because it's customary, I'm also saying to the viewers at home when you co-sign a motion. Mrs Marijnissen does the same sometimes. He sometimes says: soon will he or she submit a motion with my name on it. It's very common in this house that when a motion arrives with your name on it, you say: I'll sign it and it will be filed by Mr. A or Mrs. B in a moment. It's very common. So I say here: there will be a motion in a moment with my name on it as well. That's not unusual. Let me say this for the viewers, who think that something strange is happening here, otherwise on the basis of what is being said here. I think this is entirely in line with how we as a Chamber try to manage that process after removing the King's formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	In addition, for the people at home: so it's all roofed up in back rooms. The outcome of this debate is already clear. We're just sitting here for Piet Snot to talk a little bit, because there's going to be a motion from the VVD and D66, supported by the CDA and at least by the Labour Party, but probably also by GroenLinks, who says: guys, we're just gonna get on with each other. Then Mr Rutte will say that this is a next stage, but it is all set up. Mr. Rutte, back to your performance on television. I thought when I saw that, when does this man ever realize that he's not part of the solution, but part of the problem? You can ask me all this: we have only one proposal in terms of administrative, political renewal, and that is that you are no longer Prime Minister. You're the one who caused the trouble. You wouldn't have been at Nieuwsuur if that note "Omzigt, function elsewhere" hadn't become public. We probably wouldn't have heard about that. You're a born monist. You don't care at all. I even read in the Volkskrant this morning, for what it's worth, that you've been calling the leaders of D66, Labour Party and GroenLinks, the last few days around the Nieuwsuur broadcast. At one of the wrists you saw what tone was expected in the Nieuwsuur interview and with the other you talked about the style. You don't give a shit. You've just been calling, "What do you expect?', "How shall I do it?', "when are you satisfied?'. You don't care at all. If you hadn't gotten into political trouble, we'd never have heard you talk about another board style. But you are either the Prime Minister or the list leader or whatever hat you are wearing, who wanted Mr Omtzigt to be maneuvered into a "function elsewhere" and who lied about it to the Chamber. You are the Prime Minister who deliberately withheld the documents on the childcare allowance from the Chamber. We've had debates on that. You are now the Prime Minister who, before the start of the debate, says what the outcome will be, without half of the Chamber that belongs to the opposition being sobered up. So couldn't it be, Mr. Rutte, that it's up to you in your administrative style, perhaps not just you, and that as Prime Minister, you can offer the great solution by taking a step back yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	A few things. The answer is no, but I want to go into a few things. First of all, what Mr Wilders says about 'function elsewhere'. That Monday morning I talked about Pieter Ommzigt, but not in the sense of "function elsewhere." The mistake I made was that I didn't remember. That's a big mistake. This was a very intense debate on 1 April with a motion of censure adopted. That also forces me to think about it and reflect on it. I did. I gave my first expression to that at Nieuwsuur. I assume that I did not fully convince Mr Wilders, but we have this debate to perhaps talk about it further. The documents we talked about last week were not withheld for political reasons; we discussed them last week. That's just not true. It's just not true. The letter to the Chamber on this matter is perfectly clear. We've been here with six ministers and secretaries of state. We have had that debate. I am proud of how we have been able to help the Netherlands out of a crisis over the past ten years and have faced major problems, from MH17 to corona. But there are also serious issues to be raised about our governance culture. Mr Wilders is right on one point. I do not know whether we would have had this debate to such an extent if this situation had not arisen in relation to the scout's notes at the time. I do know that as far as the Catshuispieces, myself and the Cabinet as a whole were concerned, the report on the childcare allowance affair from the summer onwards decided to make a major change in the way we deal with Article 68 Constitution and the Public Administration Act. Of course, the debate on governance is broader. This is also about the broad relationship of cabinet-kamer, the discomfort over coalition, the inconvenience over tight government agreements, the inconvenience that a minister in the first mistake threatens to be immediately dismissed and all other issues about the relationship between citizen-government. Maybe I can say a little more about that in a moment. I cannot guarantee to Mr Wilders that we would have had this debate to such an extent if that incident had not occurred, but it is not the case that, from summer last year, the sitting cabinet, in response to the childcare allowance report, has done nothing to start dealing with the issue of information, which is an important part of that administrative culture. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	This shows the total lack of reflection. The fact that the Prime Minister is now starting to say, in response to my questions, "Well, listen, I didn't do any of that. I didn't do that. That was someone else. I didn't do that. I didn't misinformed the Chamber. I didn't say anything about omzigt: function elsewhere. I'm incredibly proud. I, Mark Rutte, say about Mark Rutte that I've done great for the past ten years. I'm super proud." Exactly the problem. That is exactly the problem, that you do not have the beginning of self-reflection, while you are the big pink elephant in the room, which you do not see because you are it. So I'd say pick a mirror and see who's standing there. A large pink elephant who has indeed lied to the Chamber, who has indeed spoken about Mr Omtzigt, who has indeed written pieces about the supplementing affair, where tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands have been thrown into bankruptcy and mental misery to this day... You are responsible for that. That's your board office, which you run. Then you say, "Nothing's wrong." Mr. Rutte, you may not be alone at the heart of the problem. As long as you don't see that and as long as you say on television and in interviews, "No, I never asked myself whether I would be the one who is still in the right place. No, I never called anyone to ask: don't you think I was wrong?" ... You haven't done anything wrong in your own beliefs. The whole of the Netherlands and a large part of the Chamber think differently. As long as you don't see that, nothing changes in the Netherlands, you and your friends will continue to govern here and the Dutch will pay the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	I agree with Mr Wilders on one point. I find the special responsibility for how we in the Netherlands have dealt with the cabinet-kamer relationship over the past ten years, the cabinet itself, the position of the Chamber and, of course, how that reflects on the position of the Dutchman vis-à-vis the government. When I say that I am proud of the past ten years, that is to say the concrete results, how we dealt with the crisis and the major issues that continued to arise. But I also said on Monday that in the last ten years my personal responsibility will be on four or five different parts. And then how we deal with it is also a joint responsibility. For example, it is a very intensive coalition consultation that Mr Wilders and I started in 2010. It became less intensive in the second cabinet, with the Labour Party, and again became much more intense in this cabinet. The system of coalition transfer, which was then launched in 2010, was, of course, continued again in this third period, to a heavy degree, and practically on Monday morning with press conferences at the walk-in on VWS. In the meantime, I have also come to the conclusion that it is unwise to continue in this way. Another, more personal point that I have also mentioned, is about my governance style. Because of the absence of majorities in the Chamber and in the interest of concluding major agreements that go over elections, I was looking for good relations. That board style also has a disadvantage. That disadvantage is that in this Chamber the debate is taking place too much between Mr Wilders and Mrs Marijnissen on the one hand and the rest of the Chamber on the other. I want these debates to take place again in the political centre. For this, it is necessary to see the great social contradictions that exist between CDA and VVD, between D66 and GroenLinks, between Party of Labour and Christian Union. The views of those parties should be visible. I acknowledge that my way of driving has contributed rather than diminished to the more covering of those differences. This makes it look like you only have a kind of "wide soup" in the middle, and around that you still have the flanks of SP and PVV. That is not good and that also forces me to deal with it in a different way in the future. Finally. The fact that I have been in contact with a number of colleagues makes perfect sense. A motion was tabled last week by GroenLinks and the Labour Party, which was widely adopted. In this motion, these parties make a number of concrete proposals on how to govern the Netherlands. I found it logical to talk to the petitioners of that motion, to understand the further background of that motion and to get more explanation. These kinds of conversations should be able to take place, including in the new governance culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	First, Mr Azarkan has the floor and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	The Prime Minister lied to the Chamber. As a result, there has been a serious crisis of confidence between him and a large part of the parties. That's what almost everyone here thinks, and that's what Mrs Kaag thought a few weeks ago. That requires the Prime Minister to explain it here. It has not been Nieuwsuur that a motion of censure or a motion of censure has been tabled. Why does the Prime Minister go on in the old days and present his plans on TV instead of here? Because in the end, he has to convince the colleagues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	I am foreman of the VVD and group chairman of the VVD. In that position, I have to relate to the Chamber. The cabinet has no views on Mark Rutte and the administrative culture. The cabinet is a missionary. We must manage current affairs, with a special responsibility for the resolution of the child allowance affair, and with a particular responsibility for dealing with the corona crisis. So in my party's foreman position, I felt it necessary to have that conversation on television, also in the run-up to this debate and against the background of Herman Tjeenk Willink's report. There I have been able to tell my story in just over twenty minutes, knowing that I will repeat it in general today. I have not yet started my speech; I am still in the first ten seconds. So I may still have that opportunity and there may be questions about it. But there's a part of it. I think it's fine that everyone reviews that performance; I knew that and that's part of it. But I think it is now also a broader responsibility for the others to get out of their seats, and indeed almost literally to put the bell cognac aside, to put the cigar on the ashtray, and to say: these are our views on this governance culture. Rutte takes the lead; that makes sense because he made that mistake on April 1st and that's what it started with. But how can we build this governance culture together in the Netherlands? This includes Mr Azarkan, who is a little too much on the sidelines with clean hands to look at others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	If you think that Parliament is a move and you need to gain trust, then it is a good thing that you are also moving into that parliament. Colleagues here have said: is it not inappropriate for the Prime Minister to do so, a Prime Minister who has provoked a crisis of confidence through his behaviour? If he wanted to regain that confidence, wouldn't Parliament be the right place to do so? But he doesn't see that, he doesn't look in that mirror. He is not prepared to look: what input does the Chamber really want? What's the big deal with this room? And would it perhaps be so that his behavior could be adapted to that? At least the Prime Minister's acting like he's taking the Chamber seriously. He doesn't start that debate until Wednesday, and he's going to present his plans there. I say again: it has not been Nieuwsuur that has tabled a motion of censure. And you didn't just sit there as the foreman. You are the Prime Minister of this country. That was also announced: Demissionary Prime Minister Mark Rutte. That's how it was! So you're not just that foreman at all. You're the face of the cabinet. People look at you that way. If you're sitting there, at least you're gonna scuff out a part of the room again. You are not prepared to present and defend your plans here. You first do this safely at Nieuwsuur, twenty minutes in total peace, and then we do it all over again. That means we're some kind of second-class place where you want to do that. I think that's just a ruse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Azarkan, one more time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	One second. I think it's important that you talk through the chairman. You talk a lot about "you, you, you," but I think it is important to do so through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	I made a mistake right away. Madam President. Mr Azarkan made a mistake in his reasoning. That mistake is next. Would it be true that as Prime Minister of the third cabinet I was allowed to lead, on Monday at Nieuwsuur I would have been responsible for how I would like to deal with that third cabinet in the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber, he would be right. Then there should have been a letter from the cabinet to the chamber. Then there should have been a debate in this Chamber first, right here in this house. But it's not. What's going on here is that we're in a formation. In that formation, one party has become the largest, my party, with 34 seats. That means that my party has the ambition to be able to lead a new cabinet. My party has the ambition. There's no certainty. It may end in the opposition; we are willing to do so, with honor. But we might get another chance. There was a very intense debate on 1 April. That started with a big mistake of mine, namely that I didn't remember talking about Pieter Ommzigt in that conversation on Monday morning. That was a mistake. It was quite right that the Chamber asked me about this for 15 hours, or no matter how long the debate lasted. I thought it was really intense, really intense. But I understood it, too. I'm not blaming anyone for that. This means that I am the first to relate to the issue of power, counterpower and administrative culture. I made a start on that at Nieuwsuur. I'm fine with people saying it wasn't enough. I would also like to clarify things. But I am also particularly curious to see what other ideas exist. I would also like to invite Mr Azarkan, like everyone else here, to contribute to this. Start asking me questions. That's fine. But it's not just one party's responsibility in the end. We all have to do that. We have to start with me; I get that. That's what I did here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr Segers and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	I don't drink cognac, I don't smoke cigars and I'm not going to review a performance in a TV show, but I would like to question the foreman of the VVD on his ideas about a different governance style, about dualism and about a serviceable government. The big question then is: how deep is it? Where can we charge the foreman of the VVD and the VVD Group when it comes to the commitment to a new formation and to a new cabinet? When I read the reports of Mr Rutte's talks with Mr Tjeenk Willink, all kinds of topics are mentioned: migration, security, middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	However, the implementation, strengthening of the implementation and reform of the tax system into a system without surcharges did not immediately emerge. Then the question is, how deep is it? That is not a cynical question, but a genuine question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	And a fair question. In addition, I have been thinking very deeply in the last four or five weeks and when I was with Herman Tjeenk Willink. He obviously triggered me on that, too, because he's not an easy man, as you know. I hope you noticed that, too. He really is a wizard. He was right to ask me about that, too. But of course I was already working on it, also because of the intensity of the debate on 1 April. That's what I've continued to think. That ended up in Nieuwsuur and undoubtedly here in the debate. The core, I think, is this one. We must make a fundamental reorientation of the relationship between cabinet and chamber, so that ultimately the relationship between Dutch and government can change. This fundamental reorientation must aim to ensure that the great debate takes place again in the two places where it should take place. That's in the Council of Ministers on Friday. So, NOS, you can cancel recording the meeting with the Prime Minister at 5:00 p.m., and then send it to EenVandaag at 6:30 p.m. You're lucky to make it to News at 10:00. Because the Councils of Ministers are going to take a very long time. There the major social debates will be fiercely fought on the basis of, as far as I am concerned, a limited government agreement with clear frameworks: financial and with bandwidths. Of course you also have to make good political agreements, but there should not be a big coalition agreement in which you have also included the white list and have described how many traffic lights are coming along the bike paths, as we have done together in the previous coalition agreement. So as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna do it differently. This means that the Chamber will also be given a different role, because if that cabinet goes to the Chamber without the middle world of all that consultation with these proposals, then the coalition agreement is the only thing you can fall back on. You made a deal about that, but that's limited as far as I'm concerned. That's going to be exciting too, because I think smaller parties in that formation are going to want to have wishes. If Mr Segers were in that formation, he would say: if there is a majority for completed life, what does that mean? Mrs Kaag is a large party, but there is still a right-wing majority on migration. She will say, "What is the right-wing majority?" So that will be exciting debates in the formation, should the VVD be present. If the VVD is not there, it will be about other subjects. As far as I am concerned, my commitment will be that the outcome is a limited government agreement. I fundamentally believe in this; that is also the romantic in me. You do not go back to the Den Uyl cabinet in substance, because no one will want that, at least nobody from the middle, because that was a left-wing cabinet, but in terms of administrative culture you go back to the Den Uyl cabinet. Indeed, the fierce, large social contradictions take place in the Council of Ministers and are discussed there. That is not, therefore, like in recent years, just as we had in the time when I ruled with Mr Wilders. The criticism has also come back to this cabinet, where ministers said that decisions are taken elsewhere and not in the Council of Ministers. I must say that this was less the case when we ruled alone with the Labour Party; that was more transparent, with two parties. That was earlier with three parties and is now much more complex with four parties. I believe in this passionately. The second point is more complicated for me; that is what I am saying honestly. That's the point, of course, that I have a style. That style is that I think it is important that relationships are good, that we are soft on relationship and hard on content and that if there are conflicts, they are not unnecessarily so big that you can no longer control them, so that the big themes that a cabinet stands for cannot be taken up. I know that about myself. I can dig deep. I come from a family in which we could fight incredibly and then make up for it again and in which you always tried to keep those personal relationships right, especially by colliding very heavily from time to time. Mr Segers and I collided quite recently and I believe that the relationships have remained personally good. We both can, and that's how you're supposed to drive. But the risk of this approach, which is in my mind, is that it sometimes gives the impression here in the Chamber that it is actually a kind of "soup in the middle": from GroenLinks to VVD, what does it really matter? Of course it matters a lot. Read the election programmes: fundamental differences of opinion. The last thing you want is a country in which the political debate eventually takes place between the SP and the PVV on the one hand and the rest of the Chamber on the other hand, and that the profile for parties to show what they stand for and what the big differences in social views are, falls away. I'm sure that second is hard for me. I'm telling you the truth. I'm gonna need some help with that. That also requires further reflection from me, should I have a chance in another period, not to fall into an old mistake. But that first one isn't hard; I really do. I'm excited too. That coalition meeting isn't an invention of mine. That's what's been going on since Lubbers. I didn't stop it either. As you know, Mr Segers, I say this through the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that we discussed in the formation whether we would continue to do so. I've outlined how we did that with Louis Asscher, Diederik Samsom, sometimes with Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Halbe Zijlstra and me. That was different. There was no press outside. It was half an hour of brainstorming about irritations, half an hour of gossip, and you left. A few times we had to discuss bed-bath bread and a few health issues very intensively in order to prevent the fall of the cabinet. But that has, of course, gotten much bigger during this period. We even invited Max van Weezel once to the coalition meeting to see how nice that is, with apple pie and everything. He liked that too, and we miss him so much. But it's not good; it's really not good. I don't mind letting that go. That is not difficult for me, but that is true of my intrinsic tendency to look for that compromise. That also has advantages, I don't run away from that. Again, where should it lead? A fundamental reset between Chamber and Cabinet, the political debate back in the Council of Ministers and thus paradoxically and complementary back in the Chamber and as far as possible away with that intermediate world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	That was a long and sometimes anecdotal answer, but I can see it for a very large part. I don't think it's a big deal if you write down in a thin government chord what hurts you the most and where you avoid each other. If you make agreements about that openly, I don't think that's a problem at all, whether it's about migration or medical ethics. But I'm gonna leave that for a while. This is about dualism, about the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. Gradually, it will have to prove whether it is going to work that way and whether it is going to work that way. I commend Mr Rutte's intention when he says, "This is really my commitment." But what is even more important and fundamental is the relationship, which Mr Rutte briefly pointed out, between government and citizens. Then it's about the execution. We've abandoned civilians. We've abandoned people. We've got parents in custody. We've had a government that faced citizens instead of citizens. And then the question is again: how deep is it? We've had a discussion about legal aid. We have had discussions about administrative law, about the marginal test in administrative law where people sometimes really didn't stand a chance in front of the administrative judge with their file on the Tax Administration, because they said: yes, the government can say so. But they didn't stand a chance because of the system. There's gonna have to change a lot more and really change it, because that board style, that's you and me. That's Mr. Rutte and me and others. We're all gonna have to do that. That is what we will have to keep each other on for the next period, because I agree with him: the debate must be conducted here in full focus. But that execution and that citizen, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	It's about what the change is there and what we can take care of the VVD. For example, we collided on legal aid. We made a deal about that. Eventually some more money was added, but it was not heartfelt. So then my real question is: how deep is it, even in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	I do think that we should distinguish political differences from the motivation to fundamentally change something. I give that warning in advance, because with Mr Segers, political differences of opinion begin to sound a little bit in his questions. I appreciate that, but I'm gonna tear them apart anyway. First about that intrinsic motivation. I remind him of my nine-point plan from 2006 to become the leader of the VVD. One of the important points in that plan is: how do you build a society in which the human dimension is central, in which the government is accessible and in which a risk can be taken? It was at the time that it was at the Four Days above 30 degrees and a committee was set up to see how it could be arranged that people were going to walk the Four Days. Well, maybe they shouldn't have, then you wouldn't need a commission and people would have just brought a bottle of water. We don't have a risk-free society. We must have a society in which, when it comes to implementation, I come back to two concrete points: space to take decisions on a human scale. I have recently had talks with Marcel Canoy and Sandra van Dijk, who have recently made proposals for this in the newspaper, which I find extremely interesting. They say it quite simply: any organization in the Netherlands that is larger and that is about the implementation must make a plan, a plan based on the human measure, together with the execution. For example, if you leave more room for the human size in the neighbourhood, people will spend longer with clients and that has the advantage that people will not end up in a nursing home. Then the home care organisation should not be dealt with with a financial disadvantage, while the nursing home has the advantage of doing so. A second example, which I also mentioned at Nieuwsuur, is... and that is not the National Ombudsman. That's really something else. Suppose, Mr Segers or Mr Rutte calls the Tax Office, the UWV, the DUO or an organization that works around the pgbs and is not treated properly, no one gets on the phone or gets someone on the phone, but nothing happens. Then I want there to be a club between Lower House and Cabinet with 50 to 100... perhaps young.. good officials as part of an education. That club has two tasks, namely picking up Mr. Segers or Mr. Rutte's problem and saying, "I'm gonna figure that out for you and I'll come back to you." This gives the government the human face of someone who picks up the phone if it doesn't work with the organization itself. It also has a huge second advantage, namely that you are going to see trends. The big problem with the childcare allowance affair is that we didn't see the trend. Mr Asscher said: I should have walked into the Ministry with that letter. Then I said to him: you torture yourself; how could you know from one letter that something so terrible went wrong here? You can't see that trend as a minister. This must be demonstrated by interventions of this kind. What's the advantage of that? Of course we all miss Arthur Doctors van Leeuwen, but he taught me one thing: politics doesn't build pink, but big elephants that often just leave a peasant. The trick should not be to reorganise all these big organisations for ten to twenty years. That may have to be done as well but to have small interventions with big effects. These are small interventions with great effects that will fundamentally change the working of these kinds of organizations to human size, to accessibility, to the human face, but also to discover trends, directly, through transparency between Chamber and Cabinet. These are two proposals, but here again: they are thoughts, ideas that I have. Finally, anyone can try to describe the word 'radical', but I think that a fundamental reset between cabinet and chamber, between government and society, citizens vis-à-vis the government is of great importance. I then put the label 'radical' on it, but Mr Segers also knows that it was Marx of English who said: 'Why is no revolution taking place in the Netherlands? Because you are not allowed to walk on the lawn in the Netherlands." So we always startle a little bit of that kind of terms. I know. But I think it is a big change, and if we are willing to do that with each other, then I am very willing to do so. I admit, quite frankly, I said it in the first answer to Mr Segers's question that, given some of the characteristics of myself, it will also require a certain amount of clarity from me. Then it's not about dualism. I am in favour of that, and I feel that is intrinsic, but I also have a board style, which I will have to apply differently on points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you. Mr Rutte is being triggered to set out his vision, so I can imagine it, but I would also ask Mr Rutte to do this a little bit more succinctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	Then you see how important it was that I... yeah, I'm gonna do it even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Dassen and Mrs Van der Plas. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	If I have listened carefully, the radical ideas are now called the "fundamental reset"; that is how I understand it. My question to Mr Rutte is actually the following. When did he come to the insights for that "fundamental reset".................................................................................................................................................................................................... Was that perhaps when he spoke to the parents in January 2020 in connection with the supplementing affair? Or was that perhaps when the report came out of unprecedented injustice, in December 2020? Or was that perhaps when opposition was widely adopted in the Lower House and the potential coalition partners also expressed their considerable disapproval?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	If I go back for myself, I actually see three lines. A first line relates to the information position of the Chamber. From Lodewijk Asscher of the Labour Party the challenge came to my address about the slide decks in the Catshuis. There are those piles of pieces; sometimes they were discussed, sometimes they were not. He said send it to the chamber. My first tendency was: we're not gonna do that, because I don't know if they've been discussed; they're all policy preparations, and why would you announce all that? That's what I've been holding on to for the first month. We had a debate on this recently: was group immunity or not an objective of policy or a result of policy? Because the piece says "objective of policy." Yes, it was a policy preparation piece; we decided otherwise. So those kind of pieces are coming out now. After a while, I did, decided with the cabinet. And I actually liked that, because what is against it? Then came the report on the childcare allowance. On the same point, Article 68 of the Constitution and the relationship with the Wob, we decided at that time. Since the 1980s, we have been doing this in a way where we do not release the personal policy views of officials. I keep saying that we, as politicians, will never harm civil servants. But you can do this, release the personal policy ideas, without damaging officials. We are going to do this in the next few weeks, and that must be done from 1 June or 1 July. That is a point about the information position. Then we'll talk about the meeting. I mention the inconvenience in this cabinet and the feedback I have received from ministers over the last year and a half: "Where are the decisions actually taken, Mark? Isn't that Monday morning? And the press is still there. You're sitting together for hours, there's an agenda, you name it." Then they have a point. So I've been thinking about that for a while. In a new cabinet, we have to do it differently. My feeling was that we should at least go back to how we did it in the previous cabinet, with the Labour Party. So much lighter. But as a result, my thinking, also through April 1st, and further considering for myself over the last ten years, has moved on to: actually, you should get rid of that intermediate world as much as possible. And yes, Mrs Marijnissen is right. The childcare allowance affair and the report on it are, I think, a fundamental break point for all of us in the way we look at the room/execution ratio. It's not like that performance isn't in the picture here. I have already outlined that since 2006 in my nine-point plan to become the leader of the VVD, I have talked about the position of people in our society; mistakes need to be made, citizens need to be at the centre and public authorities need to be accessible. But with the child care allowance affair, you can see how wrong it's gone. A is its settlement. It's very important. But my great fear is that while we are speaking here, in two or three other places in the government there may be a similar drama going on that we do not know now. It could be. Imagine that is true and that at the moment, as with the childcare allowance, people are getting caught in the wheels of the government. It could be. We simply don't know. The way we deal with it is not just the human face, individually: you always get someone on the line, you find someone you can talk to, a person, a person and not a machine or a number. In this way, therefore, my contribution to this debate is that we will also have the implementation transparently and that, if problems such as trends become apparent, they will be reported on it, so that it can never happen again. I think that's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte, of course, deals with his own answers, but they are so long that he says so much that I would really like to respond to. But we have been instructed by you to keep our interruptions short. I would have liked to have said that, personally, I find that a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	Yes. I recognise that, and I would ask Mr Rutte once again to reply in a really shorter and more concise way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	I also heard a number of repeats, so I support Mrs Marijnissen's point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	Then, of course, Mr Rutte's quality is that he can present things with a certain passion. Earlier we had already felt "in the depths of my fibers," now I think it was a slightly different formulation, so of "I'm passionate about that" or something in that mind. It is something that he does not find or do not want for a very long time, and at the moment when he may be threatened with being floored, then a turn is made at once, everything is embraced and everyone and everything here in the room gets a compliment. That is absolutely a quality of Mr Rutte, but it also conceals a great deal. And I would like to talk to him about that, because how credible does he think he himself is what was first called 'radical ideas' and now 'fundamental reset', if, for example, there has been an entire election campaign, in which we have all represented our parties, have all told us what we want with the country, what we want in the years to come, and we haven't heard anything of that first 'radical ideas' and now 'fundamental reset' from Mr Rutte? How credible does he think that is? We all know, honestly, that we all here, because Mrs. Ollongren wandered with a piece of paper, end up having this conversation here with Mark Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	First, a profit warning. I also read in the media today that the VVD will now give away everything to deliver to the Prime Minister. Well, let everyone know: we will, as always, negotiate with the knife between our teeth about our substantive ideals if we were allowed to participate in a next cabinet, and then try to come up with sensible compromises. And even when it comes to administrative culture, it is not that we agree with other people everywhere. I am making my contribution to that debate, and I am very curious about what others think of it; hence my metaphor of the brandy and cigar. And I would also like to know from Mrs Marijnissen how she looks at that. And maybe not today, maybe it'll get a little further in the formation, but we'll have to do that with each other. And again, this particular responsibility to me after 1 April, I feel the same way, but then we all have to continue the discussion here. The report on the child care allowance affair was published on 1 January. The cabinet then came up with a letter about 20 pages away. In this letter we address a number of themes, on two fundamental points that lie before us, namely: how do you deal with the information position of the Chamber? That is what we are working on right now, and with that we have let go of the tradition since the eighties of how we deal with the Wob in this country, which came back in the report as the "Ruttedoctrine." Well, that's really since the eighties; then I was still studying. But that doesn't matter; stickers are allowed. But it's been a custom in the Netherlands since the 1980s, and we're letting that go now. That's what we did there. The second is that this letter deals with Mrs Marijnissen's and me's relationship with the government, and sets out a number of ideas on how to deal with it. And I now put a number of ideas to that effect, because, frankly, I think that is also the most important point, which Mr Segers also referred to, namely: the relationship between public authorities and citizens. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. Then this is your third interruption, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yes. I would like to ask another question, however, because I find the whole term 'culture of governance', apart from the fact that I personally find it a hideous word, also a covert word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	I also have a question for Mr Rutte. Because the childcare allowance scandal is not only terrible for all those families affected, but it also exposes the fundamental mistakes in our system: the fact that we have surcharges at all in the Netherlands, that the rent, care, childcare are so expensive, and working people earn so little, the way we organized childcare. The concern for what we think is most important, our children, let us leave it to the market, to commercial parties who want to make profits, instead of saying: we organize that and pay together. These are fundamental political choices. Does Mr Rutte recognise that this debate, not only about a culture of administration, but also about the political choices in neoliberalism, which has been dominant among Prime Minister Mark Rutte over the past ten years, should be much more fundamental?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	What I regret again, and then I am really critical of Mrs Marijnissen, is the following. She starts with an argument where I think I agree with her, because of course the administrative culture overlaps with the content, but then she comes up with such a sticker of neoliberalism, of which I still don't know what she means by it and where I'm not going to live. So I'll leave that to her. So I leave these labels of neoliberalism to her, but this does not contribute to the discussion either. So I park it. But I do take the first 90% of her speech seriously, because she is right about that. There's a overlap between how we relate here and the content. If you have a very complicated system of supplements, which she refers to, then of course it will also have an impact on the complexity of the implementation. I also think that this is one of the points where the discussion with Mr Segers was not entirely conclusive. As far as the right of citizens to the government is concerned, of course, it is not just about whether the telephone is being answered, that you are being treated normally and that if things go wrong, they are being settled properly, but also about how we have arranged all these big arrangements. I also want to get rid of the supplement system in the long run, but if you did that at once, it would lead to a massive de-levelling that even the right-wing VVD would shoot into the wrong throat and would certainly not accept Mrs Marijnissen. So it's a complex process of getting rid of the whole supplement system. As far as I am concerned, that will also be part of the next formation; that is inevitable. Where I disagree with her, it's always good that the government does everything. I am absolutely fine with the fact that there is a division of roles between government and the market. That there are commercial childcare organisations in childcare, I have no objection to that, but then we may disagree politically if she says that childcare should be provided by the state. That is, of course, part of the discussions about the content that you will have to have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	I'm not gonna be okay with this anyway. Mr Rutte was quite allergic to the term "neoliberalism." Of course, that's okay, but I'm just trying to have a more fundamental discussion. I find it too easy to hang everything now on a so-called administrative culture and not to have the fundamental debate here. That's what he's been responsible for over the years. I can understand why he says that he will go along with Mrs Marijnissen's story for the first 90%, but when that last piece comes up with his own responsibility, he will abandon. I can't do that, can I? It's too easy, isn't it? What is neoliberalism? That is the marketing of what is all of us and giving away control over, for example, the quality of our public sector and we have a complicated system like the surcharge system. Isn't that what Mr. Rutte is responsible for? He can't walk away from this, can he? It is perfectly normal and very fundamental that this question is before us today and not just a discussion about a culture of governance, whatever that may be, because that is a covert term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	I say exactly where I do and what I disagree with. I agree with her that when you talk about governance culture, you have to talk about the content. There's no other way. There's an overlap between those two. If you talk about a complex supplement system or about how we organized care or education in the Netherlands, this also has effects on the inner world here between Cabinet and Chamber and certainly has consequences for the relationship between citizen and government. She's just right about that. What I find weak in her argument is that sticking such a label of "neoliberalism"; that's a coat I'm not going to withdraw, because I don't even know what it means. I am proud to be in charge of a liberal party. That is a party that assumes that if people are given the opportunity to develop and participate fully in this society as citizens, they will also care about others and that it will give you a strong country with a safety net for those who cannot come against their guilt. That is the Netherlands I stand for and I do not recognize myself in the term 'neoliberalism'. That doesn't ring a bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	I shall now give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, then to Mrs Ploumen, Mr Dassen, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Klaver, Mrs Simons and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u87	So, and then we'll have lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Eerdmans doesn't want it? Then I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u89	The Prime Minister speaks fine words, but I thought it was below par. That is all the more true if I now put forward the proposals that Mr Rutte made in addition to yesterday's statements by Sander Dekker, also a VVD'er, on social law. Just recently, a motion was passed by GroenLinks and the Labour Party, supported by the VVD, the leader of that party is here before us now, saying: there needs to be more structural money to the social lawyer. Why? Because people who are ground up by the government are once again caught by that government because they can not avail themselves of that social lawyer or too little. Thank you very much, thank you to those colleagues who supported that. Not Mr Wilders, very crazy, who always says to stand up for citizens, but not in this case. What's my surprise? That I hear VVD'er Sander Dekker say: "Joh, people, no problems with social law, no worries, quiet walking." So I would like the leader of the VVD to distance itself from that and say:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u90	No, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u91	... "I stand for that. We supported that motion. There must be more structural money in the social attorney's office, and claims that there is nothing going on there, I refer to the realm of fables." Because it is; there is a lot going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u92	Quite precisely: I do not rule out the fact that in the end you should actually do more money to the social lawyer. I'm not ruling that out, but I really think it's the wrong order. I do not agree with the way Mrs Ploumen builds up her speech. The first question must be: how has our legislation been set up? It must be so organized that people in this country should not go to that judge as much as possible, but should be treated as right, civilised, because we as a government relate to the citizen in a decent way. That is what our legislation must be on. It is also about my discussion just now with Mrs Marijnissen... the complexity of the legislation. Next, access to justice is a crucially liberal, social-democratic, confessional starting point. That is in the roots of our society and much more so in my party, in the traditions since Thorbecke. But then the question is: how do you organize it? Here is really a difference between the Labour Party and the VVD. Let us also mention it here, namely that if there is a problem, there should not always be external money. You will also have to first see how it is organized and whether you can also make sure that money goes to things by organizing it differently internally. We are among the countries in the world where the most money goes to social law. So very precisely, I don't rule out having to, but as the starting point of the problem, I think it is classic Labour Party to say: there is a problem, more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u93	Oh, Mr President, I would like to build my speech along another line in order to reach the same conclusion. So I would very much like to hear Mr Rutte's reaction. Then let's talk about preventing people from getting into trouble, making sure that the laws and regulations are clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u94	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u95	...that they are not dependent on a surcharge system. I note, then, that in the programme of the VVD, once again, the leader of that party is not before us any proposal is made, no proposal is made to change that system. Two. Implementation, very important. We are very much in agreement on that. I read the program of the VVD and what amazes me? It cuts 200 million on implementing agencies such as the UWV. Yes, then you can say that it has to be different, but if you don't deliver butter to the fish, if you don't say "we are willing to invest," then these are just talk for the often. Then I shall return to my earlier speech. So people, because the system doesn't change, because the law is not accessible to them, because no one picks up the phone from the Tax Office, depending on that social lawyer. Then they need it; so there must be more money. So no matter how I build it up, I say to Mr Rutte, I come to the same conclusion: butter with the fish, or else those talk is just worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mrs Ploumen's first two points are simply justified. It is true that the VVD is struggling with the question: how do you get rid of the surcharge system? We are taking a big step in our programme by increasing the minimum wage. That's gonna help, but there's a lot more to be done. That will be a very complicated discussion in a formation. For I know that all parties want it, but if you do it as we would like it to do, it will lead to such extreme de-levelling that, once again, that society is not acceptable to the most right-wing VVD. But let's not talk to each other. Mrs Ploumen also knows that it is extremely complex to do so. We have also, with the previous cabinet, in which we were in fact in complete agreement on the need, when we had at some point 5 billion to reduce burdens, tried to do it in a way that would help us to get further away from the surcharge system. Even then, it didn't work, when we had 5 billion. It's so complex. So it's just a complicated technical issue, not so much a political one as a technical one. She's also right about the 200 million cuts. It is not on the Tax Office, it is not in safety. In all our programmes, it is necessary to try to keep public finances somewhat in check. If you look at the importance of the execution, then this is also a point on which you will simply have to speak very really with each other in a formation: what can be done and what cannot be done? What I think she's less right about is that if those two things aren't settled, you need to give more money to the social lawyer. Again, the social lawyer in the Netherlands belongs to the top four of the world in terms of funding. I'm not saying we shouldn't. Maybe it has to be and eventually you come to the conclusion that it just needs external money. But I do think it is our job to look at it now that so much money is going to go there, how to organise it within the law and the design of our legislation in such a way that people do not have to use it so massively. I do agree with Mrs Ploumen that access to justice and access to social law are fundamental. We don't have a difference of opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u97	We may not have a difference of opinion on this, but it doesn't produce anything if it doesn't result in people having more and better access to that social lawyer and lawyers being able to do their job properly. They must be well prepared for the national attorney, who has hourly rates that these people have to live on for a week. So I would remind Mr Rutte once again. The VVD, its VVD, has signed the motion in which Mr Klaver and I say: access to justice is not just a question of fine words; it needs structural money. Two. It is good that Mr Rutte recognises the problems of implementation and legislation. I note, however, that this is a very recent insight, because no proposal has been made in his election programme. I would therefore recommend that he take note of the proposals made by others. It's possible. In fact, it has to be. If concrete measures are not taken and if policy does not change, we can continue to talk endlessly about administrative culture. That doesn't make anyone any better. That is my intention, and I very much hope for Mr Rutte's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u98	Sure. This also affects Mrs Marijnissen's point that there is a overlap between administrative culture and the content of all the major social arrangements we have here. Then there are major political differences of opinion, which we are not going to brush away here. That's typical of the formation. Should the VVD be able to participate, we will do so with the knife between the teeth, just as I know Mrs Ploumen as someone who will negotiate with at least two knives between the teeth. That's the way it's supposed to be. Then you try to compromise. That is exactly what I want, namely that you, as much as possible here in the Chamber, have big social debates in the broad political centre and not just with SP and PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. Mr Klaver wishes to continue on this point. You agree, Mr. Dassen, that Mr. Klaver is in charge? I call Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I would like to go further on this point. I can see another relaxed Mark Rutte standing here. He talks about the great differences that must remain and about the VVD that is going to negotiate hard. But if we seriously believe that we need to change the way we work with each other, and if we really want to get back to the core, namely that the government has based too much on a human image of mistrust, as the Ombudsman said here yesterday, it has implications for the content. You need to start talking about what that means. What I would like to hear from Mr Rutte today is that he can acknowledge that it has not suddenly gone wrong, but that in recent years, due to various cabinets, it has failed in its execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u102	If you cut 15% to 35% on the execution, while the tasks remain the same and if the UWV of the 24,000 people working there falls back to 15,000 people, then that has consequences for the attention you can give to individuals. If, as a cabinet, you choose to take discretionary powers out of legislation and limit the scope for action, then you know that people get into trouble when there is a very complicated individual case. Mr. Rutte, it's not to be you-baking, but you're partly responsible, as many of us are responsible for this. What I am so anxious to hear from you is that you say, "There is a one-to-one relationship between the content and the choices I have made in recent years, and we will have to restore things." This means investing in implementation. Do not first say: make a plan for the human measure of execution. We've saddled the execution with an impossible task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u103	I agree, to the last sentence. I'll explain why. I also agree with what Mr Klaver said. We all forgot, but I would point out that in 2010 and 2011, this country faced one of the biggest post-war economic recessions about ten years ago. By the way, Mr Klaver's party also took responsibility for this in 2012 with the motion that was drafted in May 2012 after the fall of the cabinet. In total, we have 51 billion in the final analysis was 46 billion net, after the 5 billion relief measures have to be reversed and cut back. That was perhaps the biggest reversal and austerity operation in history. We are now the fastest growing economy in the Western world. But he is absolutely right that we have to relate to the things that did not go well at the time. And I agree with him that, when it comes to implementation and everything that is going on there, there are major issues, including the future. But I do not agree with him on one point, I think, if I understood him correctly at the end of his speech. If he means, I might make it a little more extreme than he means "investing," I get it, but I hope he doesn't mean "executing reorganisations," because then we'll be ten years away. Okay, then we agree, because I think we should try here, in line with Docters van Leeuwen, to see what small interventions we can make that have enormous effects. That the elephant's gonna dance and not that the elephant's gonna leave a burp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u104	My point is about investing. That's why I wanted to join colleague Ploumen. Look at that social lawyer. We have said here in The Hague: we must look at this, we must talk about it. We fucking asked a committee of smart people to look at this, to map out what's going on here. Mrs Ploumen and I are tabling a motion which says: now endorse the conclusions of the Van der Meer Committee, which has looked at the social lawyer. I will just mention this as an example, because there are many more aspects. And then you see that there are actually huge deficits, that the social lawyers are currently in scale 8 and that there really needs to be something to ensure that these people get a slightly better salary, that the existing point system is adjusted so that access to justice is guaranteed. It is not a question of fixing the exact amounts with each other now. The point is that we note that over the last ten years, and I am not going to doubt your intentions, we also have to stop cutting back so much that this has been done at the expense of the people in the country. We are now working for almost an hour and a half on mutual trust and what is not right and what is not right. And in the end, no one has been helped in the Netherlands. The people who are in trouble right now and need a lawyer, but don't have the money to pay them, they're not gonna get there. People who need help finding work have difficulty finding that help, because municipalities are just dealing with huge deficits. That is your responsibility and my responsibility, the responsibility of all of us. I want that recognition from you. The recognition that we will have to make a huge investment with each other there, and also with regard to this, and I actually hear you say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u106	Sorry, everybody's been talking here for a long time, so I'm gonna keep talking. I think I can actually hear you say "yes," but please do so explicitly, without saying that it was also difficult to say that things just went wrong. Period. The way we operate over the last ten years has helped tens of thousands of people if there are not hundreds of thousands of people in trouble, and that is what we are now going to recover with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u107	Those numbers are pretty extreme. But I agree with you that the choices we have made in recent years, including in implementation, have caused serious problems. I just agree with you. But I just don't agree with one thing. I'm not gonna cover that here either. If we come to the table in a formation like VVD, we will fight for that too. If there are problems in the execution and if there is extra money to go there, it is not always that you immediately take external money off the shelf. That's a classic contradiction between left and right. Sorry. If I speak now, let us try not to cover all the major political differences. Here is a big political difference between GroenLinks and the VVD, and between the VVD and the Labour Party. That great political difference is about the problem and the need to invest. The motion as it has been tabled does not mention external money. The motion says that there should be money, but it does not say that it should be external money. That's why the VVD was able to support the motion. Moreover, when it comes to social law, I can also imagine that it should be external money. I can imagine. But I'm not gonna cover the big political difference here. That's just what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u108	Don't do this. I'm sorry, but there's absolutely no need for this, is there? I really don't think you need to tell me that there is a difference between GroenLinks and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u109	Well, that's a note, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u110	Maybe I should tell you, but there's a difference. You don't have to worry about that. What we are trying to do to each other is not to reason from our electoral programmes for once. I think that is what Mr Tjeenk Willink wrote down, from the joint analysis of what goes wrong in society and in the government. Instead of putting an ideological sauce over it, of how we would like to colour that society, we must try to see how we can solve these problems, these bottlenecks, together. That is what we must try to do, instead of putting these differences right back on top. Do you know why I think that's so important? In 2019 I made a speech on Scoreboard politics. This has not been well received everywhere, but I fully support it. Do you know why? Because politics is too often about who wins and who loses. The way you put it now, with "that's what we're going to fight about" and "the VVD and its battle," a winner and a loser always comes out. If we get this far to talk to each other, the only winners I want to see are the people who live here in the Netherlands, because we are finally going to solve their problems. The way you're handling it now sounds like old politics, and we need to break it. So please, just stick to it: "There are problems and we need to invest in them with each other. I didn't do things right." I haven't done any good in years. That's what we learn, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u111	Actually, I agree. I'm gonna add one sentence. Sorry, Mr. Clover, I'm gonna say one sentence. We agree that the sum of all these political wishes should lead to this, and I see Mr Hoekstra sitting back satisfied and nodding at me, because I think he agrees that we have sustainable public finances in the Netherlands. So ultimately, and that is also political, choices will have to be made in scarcity. So I'm gonna keep saying that here anyway. Because if we accumulate all the political wishes here, this will lead to public finances getting out of hand. Mr. Klaver and I tried once in 2017. Suppose we negotiate together again in the years to come, that will be the conversation. But I also agree with him that that is not based on the idea of "winner and loser." That's not from "I'm reasoning from my election program and you're reasoning from your election program." He's right about that. I also hope that in the next formation we will not start again with "oh yes, the migration" and then we will have the climate and a few major themes, but that we will start with the question: if we, as parties sitting there at the table in ten or twenty years' time, look back on that cabinet, do we feel that it was valuable that we were there as a person and as a party? Did we do more to each other then than shift the needle? Did we really get something for the Netherlands? With that part of his speech, because that's how I understood it, I totally agree. But that's not a scoreboard policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u112	That's nice, but there's still an inconsistency in the story. You have just said that we have been in an economic crisis in recent years and are now the fastest growing economy in Western Europe, so public finances need to be in order. That's what you're focusing on again. I am reminding you that tens of thousands of families have gotten into trouble, and then I am not exaggerating at the Tax Office because of the surcharge scandal. And we're not talking about all those people we don't know yet that they've gotten into trouble, either because access to justice wasn't good or because they couldn't be helped by their congregation. So yes, our economy may be strong for it, but for all those people who live in the Netherlands for whom it is not as easy as for most politicians here in the House of Representatives, who are just on the verge of making it to the end of the month, it has not gotten better in recent years. Instead of starting with public finances, it must be about broad prosperity. That is also what Mr Tjeenk Willink wrote: the idea that it is about stable public finances, but also about the prosperity of people in this country, about a sustainable earth and achieving that objective. We need to look at this as a whole, without one-sided emphasis on finance again. I hope we can get to hear from the left in this house too: "Public finances? Guys, we can't just spend everything there is, because we also have to think about those next generations." But I also hope that before you start embracing this with a joke that I hear from you: 'Public finances are one thing, but if people in the Netherlands come into tribulation and pay the price for being in order of public finances, then we are not going to do so'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u113	I think that is a very good conclusion to Mr Klaver's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr Dassen and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u115	We just heard Mr Rutte say that he feels responsible for how the past ten years have dealt with the role of the Chamber and how it reflects the confidence of Dutch people in the Chamber and in politics. We can also see that last year Mr Rutte was behind the facts when it came to the European Union's recovery plan. Ultimately, of course, there has been a link with the rule of law for the subsidies involved. That is very good, because in the end we want to ensure that leaders such as Orbán respect our rule of law. But I was wondering, because I haven't heard about it at all and I haven't seen it in Nieuwsuur either, whether Mr Rutte has also reflected on how his role radiates outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u116	Here Mr Dassen and I really disagree, so terribly disagree. I'm gonna explain why. Europe is facing a huge crisis around corona. And where northern Europe has faster growing economies than southern Europe, I think it is right that you refer to the question of how the North can help the South. But from the outset I have put on the table an absolute demand on behalf of the four parties in the cabinet. I said yes, we are willing to help. But why is the South lagging behind? The South is lagging behind because it has not reformed into pensions and into the labour market. It has not reformed in the housing market and in the public sector, and it has totally lost track of public finances. So if we were going to help, my condition was that the southern countries should implement the reforms associated with the country-specific recommendations. In it, I was all alone. That was only Holland. That took three long nights of negotiation. The last night was indeed about the rule of law, and there was actually no good result. I should like to congratulate the European Parliament on having managed and enforcing that in the trialogue. That was not enough from that Council and I am less proud of it. But I am very proud that we have made these conditions. And you'll only be the bad guy for three nights. I also listened to Mr Dassen's speech in the campaign. If it had been up to him, we would have said from the very first moment: 'Oh, France and Germany agree, well, we must of course join immediately'. Well, thank God we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u117	That's not an answer to my question. It is very good that reforms are needed. That's what we think about Volt. Volt Italy agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u118	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u120	I think I'm going over my own program.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr Rutte, Mr Dassen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u122	It's not an answer to what I asked. The question was: have you reflected on your role and on how it radiates outside the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u123	Yes, and I am actually quite satisfied with the role of the Netherlands in Europe. And that's not just me, but that's the cabinet and this coalition, in line with the previous coalition, the coalition before it and for the past 11 years. Europe is crucial for the Netherlands for two reasons: our economy and our security. We can never do it on our own. If the European Union did not exist, we should invent it. It is totally irresponsible to be on the scene as the Netherlands alone in this unstable world. You need that cooperation. In a world with the Russians, the situation in the Middle East and in North Africa and the unpredictability from America, it is now a bit more predictable, but it has been very unpredictable under Trump for a number of years, it is crucial that you work together for security and for the economy. But then in Europe you can really make sure that you defend the interests of the Netherlands, just as the Germans and the French do. What I belong to Volt and Mr Dassen, and what I read in his pieces, is that if the big countries agree, the Dutch will have to follow. Well, no way! We are the fifth economy of Europe. Of the 27 countries, we are the fifth economy. We're one of the founders. I am proud that we in the European Union are playing our part. And that's appreciated too! That's appreciated, too. By pursuing a consistent course, I think we are one of the most influential countries in the European Union at the moment. We fight way above our weight class. I'm proud of that. And it's not my job, but we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u124	That still doesn't answer my question. The question is about the role played by Mr Rutte and the reflection on this, and about the radical ideas that should be discussed. The premium affair and the debate we have had before have also had a certain look at the other countries in Europe. They've given ammo to leaders like Orbán. So I wonder how Mr Rutte reflects on that. How does he ensure that he gets to work on this European cooperation, of which the rule of law is an essential part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u125	What total bullshit! Is it true that the Netherlands is suddenly in the corner of Poland and Hungary? Is Mr. Dassen really serious? We are having a terrible affair here with the childcare allowance, but there is no cabinet here that has said: we are going to get tens of thousands of parents into trouble. Something's gone terribly wrong. The cabinet has resigned. I am deeply ashamed of the parents that this could happen and I feel incredibly responsible for it. But there has been no decision by the Dutch Government to take away the right of 30,000 or more people and to throw them into misery? It's terrible that it could happen, but it can't be compared, can it? I hope Mr Dassen will take back that the Dutch Government is suddenly in a corner with Hungary and Poland!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u126	That's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying it has a certain look, even outside the Netherlands. You'll see that again. I wonder how Mr Rutte reflects on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u127	Well, what I just said. I think it's a really silly equation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mrs. Van der Plas and then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u129	I actually want to go all the way back to the beginning. We started here at 10:15. If we carry on like this, Mr. Rutte will be here until 3:00 this afternoon. At the very beginning a very good question was asked by Mr Wilders. It was about the motion. That it was all set up. I also think that this is an insult to Mr Tjeenk Willink and I am now addressing the Members of Parliament. Sorry, Chairman, I'm not chairman, but I'd like to do that. It's all messed up here. Mr Rutte was addressed as chairman of the VVD Group. Mr Rutte is addressed as Prime Minister. I think he's here as group chairman of the VVD. I would like the debate to be limited to that. I do not need to defend Mr Rutte here, but if we are talking about a new governance culture, about new leadership and about restoring trust between government and citizens, then we should all be here for almost two hours about all kinds of details... I have heard all kinds of things come across. There I am... I'm sorry, but then I say it again: I just don't feel like it at all and I don't think the citizens at home are in the mood for that either. I would very much like to return to Mr Wilders' first question. What's with the motion? Has everything been set up yet? My question is therefore specific: can we ask whether this motion will simply be put to the vote now? Then we'll know. Then we'll know if Mrs. Hammer is an informal formatter or if she's a formal formatter, and then we can just get on with it. 'Cause I can tell you right now we're gonna be here until 4:30 tonight dimming about everything. So I'd like to say, back to the base and let's get a little concrete together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u130	I think Mrs Kaag would like to respond to this. Let me give you an opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u131	To clarify also for Mrs Marijnissen: Mr Rutte is unfortunately not my spokesman. He's above my pay grade, too expensive for me. But apart from that, we have indeed taken the lead, as D66, as one of the two largest parties, the number two, earlier in this phase with earlier motions, from a responsibility, to see how we can promote the next stage in this political process. This is an open process. I have asked a number of parties informally: how about a motion? What does the frame look like? That's it. It is legitimate to debate this at this stage in this debate, quite freely and without any extrapolating, in quotes. Nothing's been taken. It's not a deal. It is a proposal, just as many parties come forward with, for example, motions that they know some parties from this Chamber might be able to support. That's all: a probe ring with a number of batches. For example, I did not ask Mr Wilders, because I know about the only time that I called Mr Wilders twice in an earlier stage of scouting gate and before that, that Mr Wilders only wants new elections. Well, I don't need to come to him with a motion that proposes a next phase with a new informant, on content, because that's the assignment. But we might as well share the concept of this motion for information. That may not be common in this Chamber, but it can promote the conversation and bring us back to the essence of this day. As far as I am concerned, that was Mr Tjeenk Willink's report, all our reflections on it and consensus to move on to the next stage, because the country really cannot wait. We all say it, but we don't act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u132	Let's take a look at what Mrs. Van der Plas had proposed. Mrs Kaag will have her first term. Then questions can also be asked. Mrs van der Plas had asked for a reflection on the motion and its probe. Mrs Kaag says she's willing to e-mail the motion in draft. It is up to Mrs Kaag to do or not to do so. But perhaps it would be a good idea to answer Mrs van der Plas' question first and to hear Mr Rutte's reflection on whether or not to probe that motion. Then we will look at Mrs Van der Plas' second request. Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u133	The VVD also helped with that probe ring. I also agree with Mrs Kaag's answer to Mrs Van der Plas' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mrs van der Plas' second question was whether we can vote on the motion now. A number of other people have indicated that they have questions for Mr Rutte. A number of other people have also prepared their speeches. I propose that we continue to do so, except if I take a look at the Chamber too, there is support for Mrs Van der Plas' proposal to vote on the motion now. That seems to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u135	I don't think it's an order proposal. The motion hasn't been filed yet. With all due respect, let's continue with the debate. There's gonna be a motion later. Then we can put a bow around it. Then we'll vote and then we'll see what the proportions are. Then we can just finish it at 3:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u136	Yes. I do not think there is any support for your request, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u137	I don't know. All I hear is Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u138	I took a look around the hall. There is no support for the request. But procedurally, Mr Klaver is right. A motion has not yet been formally tabled. It must be submitted before it can be put to the vote. So you're a little premature. I think it is up to Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag to put the motion to the vote immediately or not. They are not going to do that, so I support Mr Klaver's argument that it is not now appropriate. That may happen, but then it depends on whether Mrs Kaag believes that she should put the motion to the vote in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u139	Not to be annoying, but you give your own opinion all the time, which we're not really waiting for, with all due respect. A colleague makes a proposal. Then it's up to the Chamber, not what you think. Then it's what the Chamber thinks. I think it is a fair proposal. It's a big charade. It has already been decided how the debate will end shortly. I'd say file that motion now. Perhaps Mr Rutte can present her instead of Mrs Kaag; that is two hands on one stomach. Then we can vote on it and then we can go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mrs Kaag will be the next speaker and she will table the motion. Our intention is not, I think, to put that motion to the vote now, but just at the end of the debate. Again, I think we've been doing this since 2012. It's no big deal. I find it all very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u141	I say to Mr Wilders: it is not my personal opinion. No motion has yet been tabled, so it is not possible to vote on it. It is up to Mr Rutte or Mrs Kaag to decide whether or not to put the motion to the vote. I can then refer to the Chamber whether it should be voted on, but that is not yet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u142	Everyone gets very mad at me or at my proposal. It doesn't matter. It's okay. I'm handing out and I can cash in, too. But would it be possible for us to cool down and suspend for half an hour? Then everyone can talk about what we want with that motion. Do we want it on the e-mail? Do we want it in the mood? Then we don't have to decide that now in the heat of the battle, but then we can think about it for a moment. Maybe we could go outside for a round. There are also people from the carnival outside on the Square to offer a pamphlet. That's where we could walk. Then we can just come back after half an hour of thinking and decide what we do, because the opinions on this matter are very divided, I think. That's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u143	This is a point of order. You're proposing to suspend for half an hour. I am going to refer to the Chamber whether there is a need to suspend or to continue the debate. Mrs Simons has also been waiting for a time to ask her questions. I think it would be very good to put Mrs van der Plas' point to the Chamber. Is there a need to suspend for half an hour or are we going to continue the debate? I'll give everyone the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u144	If you see how the new governance culture has evolved here on the interrupt microphone over the last two hours, then perhaps you should consider keeping some elements of the old governance culture. I'm against the proposal to suspend for half an hour. To be honest, I think it is also unwise to vote on a motion whose text has not yet been shared with the Chamber and to change the order of events. I very much agree with what Mr Klaver has just said. Let us resume the debate and confine ourselves to what the debate should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u145	Keep going. Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u146	I believe that Mrs van der Plas began by expressing the need not to prolong or delay the debate indefinitely. Then I think it is best that we continue and have the clear process that the motion will be tabled shortly. Then we can talk about it and vote on it. I thought it was a valuable suggestion from Mrs Kaag to share the concept motion with all the groups, because it gives all the groups an opportunity to express informally whether they have any reservations about it. I think that is also in line with the old practice under the King, where there was also wide coverage before follow-up steps were chosen on difficult nodes. I think we're doing everything in our power.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u147	Thank you. That suggestion is heard by Mrs Kaag and she is willing to do so. I'm just looking. Is there any group at all that supports Mrs van der Plas' proposal to suspend for half an hour? Is there anyone who supports the proposal? If I ask like that, it'll go a little faster. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u148	I think Mrs van der Plas speaks with a little little respect about what we are doing here. I like it when you say we're dimming a little bit. I don't think that's very respectful. And I don't think it's very respectful of you to say that if we go on like this, we're gonna be wasting our time until four o'clock. This is the heart of democracy. We have a crisis of confidence that concerns the Prime Minister. It is good that colleagues can ask their questions. This is our job. And if we have to do that until 4:00, we will. It is up to the individual members themselves to decide whether that makes sense. You are accountable to those who voted for you, not to Mrs Van der Plas. And my second point is: it seems absurd to me to suspend now, because then we will be finished at half past four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you. I see that there is no support for Mrs van der Plas' proposal to suspend for half an hour. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas. And I propose that we proceed very quickly afterwards, first of all with Mrs Simons, because she has been waiting for some time. Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u150	Since I was addressed, I'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u151	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u152	I have a great deal of respect for this room. We are here for citizens in the Netherlands. Well, I have more than a lot of respect for that. I'm noticing that things are getting mixed up. I hear questions and comments on the role of Prime Minister, but also on the role of party leader of the VVD. So I'm just trying to stop us all from getting mixed up here, and we're gonna be sitting here for a long time. I really don't care. I would like to meet here until 10 a.m. tomorrow, as long as it is really good about the content. You know, I've never died of hard work. I don't mind debating until 4:00 a.m. at all. And I certainly don't think we're wasting our time here. I just want to say that we're talking about a new governance culture that we're just doing "basket."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u153	You've made your point. And you are absolutely right: Mr Rutte is here as leader of the VVD. We'll continue the debate. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Simons and then to Mrs Den Haan. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to go back to the substance and the reason why we are having this debate today. In front of us is the VVD leader, the group chairman of the VVD. I've heard him say a number of things today and in the last few days. I'd like to connect those buttons. Because political choices follow ideological choices. And that together leads to policy choices. The liberal choices of the Cabinets chaired by Mr Rutte have led to an increase in the number of homeless people in our country, to growing poverty among working people, to a sighing and creaking rule of law. I can really go on for a long time, for example, about citizens in Groningen who have been victims of government corruption, about parents who have been crushed by all the abuses in the Tax Office, etc., etc. There are more and more groups that are not allowed or able to participate. I just heard Mr Rutte say: I have nothing with the label 'neoliberalism', I am a liberal, and that is what I stand for. It's the same VVD leader who said last Monday at Nieuwsuur: but I'm not going to do anything else. No, you literally said that, Mr. Rutte, please. We are investigating today, in this debate, whether it is possible at all to restore confidence in this person as leader of the forthcoming cabinet, as leader of the Netherlands, as Prime Minister for all Dutch. I am therefore very curious how these statements and the liberal vision of the VVD leader relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u155	There. Well, I said I'm not gonna do everything differently. That's right. I am going to do different things on a number of points: that is what we are talking about today. But I am very proud of what has been achieved in the last ten years. Because hundreds of thousands of people in the Netherlands have been lifted out of unemployment by the Cabinets I was allowed to lead. They've come to work. We have faced the worst post-war economic recession. By making difficult decisions, the Netherlands is now the fastest growing economy in this part of Europe, and we are probably, according to all calculations, one of the best economies in Europe to emerge from the serious corona crisis. Look at the triple A rating that the Dutch sovereign debt has. This concerns our economic performance, and I am very proud of it. Mrs Simons is right to say that a number of things have also gone terribly wrong in recent years. I'll mention Groningen and the child care allowance affair. And there really are more of those things; she's right about that. But I am also proud of things that have succeeded and for which I take responsibility. I also take responsibility for things that haven't gone well. The cabinet didn't resign for nothing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u156	It's wonderful when you take people out of unemployment and then turn them into working poor. Then you have a fantastic result and you can say: we have dealt with unemployment. But those are the same people who work their asses off and can't survive. My question was actually, and I have asked it before: where should the Dutch, represented by this Chamber, get the confidence that every time you are addressed to what is not going well... The cabinet has resigned. You are not here as Prime Minister either, if I understand correctly, so I address you as future Prime Minister, because that is your ambition. With that reference comes the confusion every time: what hat did you wear? For me today you wear the hat of VVD leader. The question is: if you are the position of future Prime Minister... sorry, through the chairman. If Mr Rutte aspires to the position of future Prime Minister, where should the Dutch, represented by the 150 Members of Parliament present here, get the confidence that every time there is talk of what is going wrong that is essential, life-threatening problems for hundreds of thousands of Dutch people, Mr Rutte does not say: but there is also a lot going well? If I can help you by saying "applaus for what has gone well; recognition for it," you might be able to answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u157	It is the duty of a cabinet, and certainly of a prime minister, to work the snot in front of the eyes. That task is to ensure that problems that exist in the country are addressed. That is the task of taking the opportunities we have in the country. In a coalition country like the Netherlands, we always look for compromises. We may have a fierce debate, but in the end this is also a country in which we come to the compromise, in which we reach out to each other and put the scoreboard policy behind us. That is also what I, as leader of the VVD Group, have done now and before as the leader of my party in the elections. Elections are a moment when we are all being dealt with again by the electorate on what a party and the people of that party have done and have shown in recent years. That moment has been. I am proud of that result, but I feel, of course, a great responsibility to ensure from that outcome that a cabinet can form that can deal with the major problems of this country that are now occurring after corona. One. To reach the end point of corona and ensure that companies can get back to work. Two. Ensure that we take up all the major societal issues that have been exacerbated by corona rather than reduced carbon dioxide from nitrogen to climate to security and the position of the middle class and small and medium-sized enterprises in a next coalition. Also in a subsequent cabinet, Mrs Simons, I say through the chairman, things will not go well. I will always speak honestly with the Chamber, if I can become Prime Minister, things that are going well and what we do as a cabinet to solve things that are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr Rutte points out a number of things which have indeed become very clear as a result of the outbreak of the pandemic. However, these are all points that were poignant before the pandemic. I have heard Mr Rutte say in this debate today: then we must make choices in scarcity. Results from the past show who gets that scarcity, who you can afford that scarcity and who doesn't. Again, my question. Based on past results, you convince me, and the 80% of the Dutch who did not vote for the VVD, why we should be digging up confidence in Mr Rutte from deep down anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u159	78% of the Dutch. That's one. Then to the content, about what Mrs Simons just said. Since 2010 and addressing the severe economic crisis, we have had to make choices in scarcity. I said that, and Mrs Simons is right to quote me on that. This should also be done here in Parliament. For me as a liberal, the government is the shield for the weak. This means that if there are serious problems in society, you try not to lay them down with the people who are weakest. Look what difficult decisions we have had to take over the last ten years, going from limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction to increasing the burden, including for the middle class and for small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to get out of that crisis. They have also led to major debates in my party and with the voters. But I also see how we are now economically in favour of economic growth, how many people are at work and how there have been opportunities over the past few years to relieve burdens where they could. I'm still proud of the choices we made there. But not everything went well. That will also be the case in the years to come. A cabinet that rules also makes mistakes. Perhaps things are going terribly wrong in the execution of the cabinet, for which the cabinet has the responsibility. The cabinet has these things to solve. That is true, but if Mrs Simons would like to hear from me that the next cabinet is going to run a clear course, I say that is not going to happen. Mistakes will also be made in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u160	I am very happy to hear Mr Rutte say that he knows one thing for sure, namely that he is going to make mistakes. That is a statement I often make myself, especially as a starting party leader. My question is not whether you're going to make mistakes. My question is not whether you have made mistakes, Mr. Rutte, through the chairman. My question is this: what concrete statement can you make here that goes beyond setting up an Ombudsman 2.0? What specific statements can you make that are truly radical? Let me put that word "radical" on the table here. That has been our slogan since day one since I started the party BET1, albeit under a different name. In my opinion, I have had to explain a number of hundreds of times in recent years what the word 'radical' really means. That means, from the root. When I hear Mr Rutte say that his solution to a structural problem between citizen and government is to build an institution that already exists and where you can go if you have a problem with the government, I am sorry that I do not hear the ambition. I do hear the ambition of becoming the next Prime Minister, but I do not hear the ambition of asking for a promise, but an ambition to at least strive for a government that does not always let it come to the point that citizens must first distraughtly grab the phone as a result of Mr Rutte's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u161	That's bullshit. I didn't make one proposal, did I? I've made a lot of proposals. But I would like to say the following to Mrs Simons. These are thoughts about how we can solve some big problems. I think they are fundamental: a completely different relationship between Cabinet and Chamber, a different relationship between performance, government and citizens in the country, a different position for professionals in the country, a strengthening of the position of the Chamber as a democratic body, directly elected by the population. But I would also like to say to Mrs Simons: step out of the role of commentator on me. I hear it, I take it to heart and I will improve my proposals. I thank her for that, but I also come up with my own ideas and proposals. Let her also put the bell cognac and cigar aside and come up with her ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr President, if I may respond briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u163	Yes, the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u164	As a representative of the people, it is my duty to comment and control you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u165	As a member of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mrs Simons has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u167	This is exactly... we'll get to the bottom of this. One minute, Mr Rutte is speaking as a former Prime Minister. Next thing I know, he's gonna be speaking as the outgoing Prime Minister. Another moment later he speaks as future Prime Minister and, when it suits him, as VVD leader. If you consider it equally important as a MP and as a VVD leader that the Chamber regains confidence in the government, then you would have sat down as a VVD leader at Nieuwsuur and you would have talked there about the VVD and how you intend to lead it in the next cabinet period or you would have been with one of those other hats that you easily change within ten seconds, first come and talk to us here in the Chamber. That is the first part of my answer to your question. If you say 'you make any suggestions', then my suggestion is that you do so next time, namely that you choose very clearly with which hat you do something and that you give us the respect to know it. Because every time in the media, via television, I have to wait and see who speaks to us, with what hat and what we may or may not say about it. It is my job as a member of the Chamber to question you because you are standing here expressing the wish and hope to be the next Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u168	This is not the beginning of Mrs Simons' contribution to the discussion on governance culture, just commenting on me. I literally started the interview with Nieuwsuur with the statement: "I am not here on behalf of the cabinet." Then we would have sent a letter to the Chamber and we would have made a proposal. I said, "I'm here as foreman of my party." That was partly because I saw Mrs Simons criticising the fact that I would be sitting there on Monday afternoon. I would have taken that to heart. Thank you for that. That's why I decided to start that interview with that. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u169	Perhaps a suggestion for the new governance culture, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u171	I'm gonna finish it. So if she'd seen that, she could have registered it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr. Chairman. I've seen two things. I have seen Mr Rutte sitting there, saying "I am here as VVD leader," while at the bottom of the picture, as in the announcement of the programme...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u173	That's not my call, is it? The free press, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u174	No, but you make arrangements with the program. Anyway, it doesn't matter. You don't think it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yes, I did. I made appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u176	Next, we are talking about a new administrative culture for which the Chamber is also responsible. Well, a little suggestion: next time you see a member of the Chamber do something or hear you say what you appreciate, it won't cost you much to just let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u177	Well, I was just glad you asked that question. Then I could say it now. But let's talk about the subtitles. You're from the media yourself. What is this weird story?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u178	Listen...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u179	Wait, I'm just gonna finish my answer. I've been in touch with Nieuwsuur through the VVD. I said we'd love to do it with you guys if we could. I didn't even know who would interview me on Monday: Wollaars, Mariëlle Tweebeeke or anyone else. I didn't know that. We have not made any demands on the type of questions that would be asked. We actually told them very little about what I was going to tell them. The only thing I had asked for through the VVD was: if it could please not endless voxpops in between and videos and things; let's have a conversation. That's what Nieuwsuur said: that's what we really want, so that's fine; we only do a movie at the beginning as an announcement. That's the only deal. And then what they put in the picture underneath... I was there alone; there was no one with me, but if someone from the VVD had been with me and had started tapping on the computer that it was there wrong, then I should have heard Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u180	Mrs Simons, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u181	Mr Rutte speaks to me on my experience in the television field. And that is precisely why, from that experience, I know that if you go to a television programme and that goes for everyone here, and if you think that's important, if you value that there can be no misunderstanding about it, then you will say: yes, I would very much like to come as a VVD leader. Then that is the title that sees the whole of the Netherlands on the tube.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u182	Well, I think you've made your vision perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u183	I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u184	Mr President, I feel a little lost, because I came here this morning with the idea that we were going to talk about Mr Tjeenk Willink's report, which has been waiting here all this time, and I do not even know what time it is already almost two and a half hours and we have not actually talked about it yet. Mr Rutte could not even begin his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u185	No, five seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u186	We've been at it for two months and we're farther away from where we should have been as far as I'm concerned. I also think that Mr Rutte has done some unwise things, but the electorate has spoken. Also in the polls the voter still speaks: the VVD is the largest party. We stand here together, as far as I am concerned, to see how we can get this country out of this crisis as soon as possible. I would very much like to talk today about Mr Tjeenk Willink's report. I would like to go to that content. Perhaps Mr Rutte is going to say something about that in his speech. I hope so. I have just heard him say that Mr Tjeenk Willink spoke about a coalition agreement on the main points. Mr Rutte said that he finds that very exciting. The last Rutte Cabinets have, of course, been fairly close to the coalition agreements. That is much less fun for the opposition and it is very difficult for interest groups to do their job. So I am also very much in favour of a general government agreement, but I do wonder: have you considered how you would like to shape it with the opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u187	Well, not with the opposition. When parties finally start forming...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u188	No, in cooperation with the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u189	No, not from a VVD perspective. I don't believe in that. I think you should ultimately try to reach parties representing a majority in the Chamber to try to form a cabinet. I hope the VVD's in there. I'm not sure, but I hope so. We are prepared to take that responsibility. Then I sincerely hope that a government agreement will come out of that. I hope that the next step, and I refer to the Kaag motion which is now being tabled, will also lead to the building blocks of that coalition agreement. I also hope that this can be done a little quickly, because we have been working on it for quite some time. The country has big problems to solve. We must rebuild the country after the end of the corona crisis. But also the major social issues that I mentioned earlier are ready to tackle. We can now put that further at gunpoint in the next phase of formation. Then you would hope that on the basis of that outcome you can write a fairly thin coalition agreement, which states which themes need to be addressed and which is about the bandwidth in political choices, and perhaps some of the finances that go with it, but that's it. Then that goes to the cabinet. I thought Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink said that there should also be a government programme. I wouldn't be for that. I would be in favour of the cabinet working on that coalition agreement, the ministers writing their plans and discussing them in the Cabinet on Fridays from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. at night, in a friendly atmosphere and occasionally with a little crisis threat; that's not bad at all, you end up getting out of it and then going to the Chamber. That's how I'd like it. But I represent 34 seats here. Of course, we must all agree on this. In addition, the relationship with the opposition, of course after the formation of a cabinet, is essential. Of course, you listen with respect to the views of the opposition. The previous cabinet made agreements on the Climate Agreement and the pension agreement with GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Agreements have been reached with the Socialist Party, the SGP and 50PLUS on the nitrogen agreement. Because they go over elections, you have to do it sometimes. That will also be necessary in the future. So you need this to have long-term stability in policy, but you also need it because you sometimes want to process very good ideas from others. But there will be a tension between a coalition and an opposition; I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u190	Thank you. I propose that Mr Rutte continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u191	Oh, sorry. I shall be brief, because all the questions have already given rise to my entire speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u192	That's okay, if everything's already listed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u193	No, I'll be very brief. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I have one thing left. Through you I would like to thank Herman Tjeenk Willink incredibly much for his work and for the fact that he has been willing to do this again. I fear that we will see him regularly for the next ten or twenty years. I know he's willing to come back and he's willing to do it again in good health. That's what I'm going to do. I do have one more question. How exactly does he see the relationship between recovery policy and the wider issues before us? What is in his view, seen from his report, exactly that limit? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand wants to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u195	I thought I'd wait. Perhaps Mr Rutte needed a Castro-like speaking time to clarify what all his radical ideas are. I think it was only 15 minutes at Nieuwsuur. Two hours have now been added, but there is a chance that Mr Rutte would like to add something to the so-called self-reflection we have seen, to the radical ideas, and that there is something else he would like to give to the Chamber on his own account about what else has to or can be done. Well, is there anything else he'd like to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u196	Then I'm gonna use the speech. I was thinking, part of this has already happened in the Q&As, in the questions and answers of just now. Let me try to sum it up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u197	I would ask Mr Rutte not to repeat what has been exchanged. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u198	As far as the ratio is concerned, there are four essential pillars for me to talk about in the coming period. The very first is the relationship between government and citizen. I have made a number of proposals. Of course more needs to be done, but the core of it is: how does the government get the human face back, how do we get a look at trends in implementation when things go fundamentally wrong and how do we avoid the nightmare that is not unthinkable and which I think we all feel, namely that at some point it appears that without knowing that something went wrong on other parts of the execution? And hopefully that is not comparable to the child allowance affair. That will affect all government agencies. This means that we have just heard that the rules should not be complex, that anonymity and aloofness should be removed and that anyone who has questions should always be able to get an ear out of the government. I have already said what is necessary about the relationship between the cabinet and room. The following is an important point: I have just briefly mentioned it. This is what I say as foreman of my party. Here the culture has grown that, if a mistake is made, the question in the discussion is actually right away: when does the Secretary of State, or Minister, resign and survive the debate? I think that instead we should have this discussion with each other for a while and we should also accept that mistakes are being made. I am calling for a little more forgiveness here, provided that lessons are learned when mistakes are made. In my view, political culture in this area has not gone in the right direction in recent years. Then the role of the Chamber. I haven't talked about that at all, so thank you to Mrs Ouwehand. I believe that we as a Chamber should be strengthened by better and transparent information. This affects both the legislation and the quality of legislation as well as the supervisory role of the Chamber. And I also talked about the space for professionals: how do you make sure they get more space in the execution? That too is very important. This also affects the renewal and strengthening of legal protection, which we have also discussed. The social lawyer is part of this, as a safety net for people who get into trouble; so that is well arranged and remains well arranged. That is also where the counterpower is organised from within society. I believe that this is part of the obligation to treat citizens' initiatives much more quickly, even for us as a Chamber of Commerce. We can do this, for example, by requiring a committee debate on a citizens' initiative within six months of its adoption. At the moment that sometimes runs up to a year and a half, so we just don't do that well as a room. And the aim is also a fundamental new thinking in my party that I have promoted in the campaign to not a small government, but to a strong government. Not a large government, but a strong government, which does not focus on size, but on how well that government is able to carry out its own tasks. Well, that is a lot of things, but I would like to conclude by saying, also to Mrs Ouwehand: come forward with your proposals. I'm very curious. Let's see if we can build a culture together in the coming time, here between Chamber and Cabinet, but also with society, with professionals, which makes us feel that we can really, because of that horrible evening on April 1st, that I caused, and so it also starts with a reflection of me. And I don't mean a fourth Rutte cabinet. I hope so, but I'm not asking her that, but we're fundamentally changing the way we work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you for supplementing everything the Prime Minister... "Prime Minister"? What am I saying? He's standing here as a VVD foreman. So thank you for what the VVD foreman has said so far about how he looks back on the cabinets under his direction. I am asking this explicitly: on its own. I think we really need to figure this out here. That question of trust has come to the table. We're in a very special formation. And this debate is about whether this Chamber can form a majority in confidence, or a minority, for a cabinet. The VVD foreman would like to participate. So we need to know: what are his own sincere beliefs? I don't think we should go after anyone here and say, "I want you to say this," or I don't trust you. It is not a function of an intern who is available here, where you say "you still need guidance," which we still have to learn a lot of things. No, if you want to be Prime Minister of the Netherlands, you have to respect the Constitution by yourself. Then, for example, if you're being fingered by the judge, in the climate case, in the nitrogen case, you have to scare yourself and you want to fix things. So the ideas that Mr Rutte is now asking the Party for Animals for have long and wide passed over the last ten years. But in his role as Prime Minister, he chose not to listen to that. He has chosen to put his party's interests first, not the national interests. So I also call on my colleagues not to treat this debate as: can we persuade those who want to lead the country further to make some moves? 'Cause then we'll keep busy. We may say the lower limit: that there is no lying to the Chamber; that if the judge taps on you, you are afraid of a hat. And, last but not least, that there is honesty. I would like to ask one question about this, because I can give you a thousand examples. I have just heard Mr Rutte say about the report on the child allowance affair: we embrace the conclusions, but there were political reasons behind them, that is simply not true. Is it true he says that here as a VVD foreman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u200	I am not going to repeat last week's debate, but that is what the debate was about. The debate was on the Minutes. Last Thursday's debate focused precisely on this: did the cabinet deliberately withhold documents for political reasons? There were two reasons why documents were withheld, and they were also publicly reported to the Chamber. We discussed all this in last week's debate, so I'm not going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u201	Yes, Mr. Rutte has...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u202	Mrs Ouwehand, we have indeed had an extensive debate on the Minutes. You yourself indicated that you also want to broaden today's debate. I would also like to give you an opportunity, but I would ask you to ask your questions a little bit compactly. And you have also made an appeal to the Members of Parliament, as I heard in your first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u203	Sure. I think you'll find it interesting what I'm about to say. This is because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u204	You don't have to do it for me. I always find everything you say very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u205	Yeah, I kind of figured that out, didn't I? Mr Rutte sees at Nieuwsuur: I want to lead the Netherlands. Just on the basis of that statement, but also if he wants to be Prime Minister, we just need to be able to trust that you're fit for that position and that you're not saying a one day and the other day b. What does the case want with the child care allowance affair? Of course things could have gone wrong. Mr Rutte himself said: I would like more forgiveness. That's what you get when it's really just about mistakes you couldn't help and if you're willing to self-reflection. Then the Chamber moves very much with you. But what was so striking was that there were political reasons behind it. In doing so, I was very cautious in expressing a disagreement between the Chamber and the Cabinet. The cabinet said "no" and the entire Chamber.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And that is, of course, the heart of the matter when it comes to trust. Then we had that debate and then I tabled a motion so that the new Chamber, including Mr Rutte, including Mr Hoekstra, including Mrs Kaag, who was in the cabinet, could give its opinion, in the sense that we support the committee's conclusion, were they political or not? And then Mr Rutte voted in favour of that motion, jointly and severally. From his role as VVD leader he said neatly: yes, they were political reasons. Now he's here two weeks later, also in his role as VVD foreman, and then he says he's not. With a figure like that, we can't control the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u206	Really, really bullshit! I fully support the conclusions of the committee and I fully support the whole Chamber. The group chairman of the party to which I was the last to be a leader even tabled that motion; that was the Dijkhoff motion. The discussion last week was not about that; it was about whether, in the factual account of November 2019, the cabinet consciously did not provide documents to the Chamber because it was politically convenient. We said at that time that there were two reasons why we did not do that, namely how we dealt with the relationship between Wob and Article 68 of the Constitution at that time and because we did not intend to throw civil servants off the bus. Those were the considerations that we shared transparently with the Chamber at the time. So I'm not going to do that again, and I fully support the Dijkhoff motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u207	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand. I shall then give the floor to Mr Eerdmans and then to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u208	I have also seen in the news reports that other parties said: this is not helping. I can put the motion before you for a while, you know. As a cabinet, we saw that, and then the Chamber said: there were political reasons. At that time, the cabinet said: we embrace all conclusions except those. And that's exactly the one thing that matters, because we can solve everything else together. And it's scandalous that it takes so long and it's terrible for those people, but it may happen that you have to solve problems that have arisen together. The question of trust is: are you trying to keep things away because it suits your politics better or not? There Rutte has not only a disagreement with himself as head of the cabinet and as foreman of the VVD group, but also now in his role as party chairman of the VVD he has two different opinions. If you want to drive with that man, I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u209	No, I'm not. Then four parties have two different opinions, because what I said here last week applies to the entire cabinet. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u210	Immediately after the elections, Mr Rutte expressed a preference for a coalition with us. That was the coalition VVD, CDA, D66 and JA21. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u211	Well, we are going to consider ourselves as a group first and then we are going to see what Mr Eerdmans has said over the last few months. We don't have an opinion on that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u212	I have to do a reflection, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u213	That helps us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u214	Yes, yes, but would you like to regain that trust of ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u215	I'm not standing here trying to gain faith. I trusted the voter, and that's what I got. I made a big mistake on April 1st, a real blunder, by not remembering that I had called Omtzigt, not in the sense of "function elsewhere" but had mentioned it. The Chamber was right to run all over me at that time. That's the way it's supposed to be. I don't give a shit about that. In fact, I understand that. And I just have to accept that, because that was my fault. It also forces me to fundamentally reflect on a number of issues surrounding our governance culture. I just think that we should now broaden it to other parties as well. So I am very curious to hear from Mr Eerdmans as well in the near future where his ideas are. As a group, if at any point the question is 'who with whom', we will discuss it again. I said what I thought then, and that will come up when we move on. But if it goes along the lines as the motion is presented immediately, we will have a discussion about the content before we see who with whom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u216	I think the appointment of Mrs Hamer is a signal in one direction to a middle-left cabinet. But even so, I said to Mr Tjeenk Willink: 'a bump in the rug'. I had hoped and expected that the VVD leader would say: "It really needs to be taken away and we hope that the right-wing voter can be rewarded by a cabinet right from the middle." By the way, there is a parliamentary majority in favour of doing so, and even in the Upper Chamber with our seats you can come a long way. But I understand that those attempts are being stopped right now, and that is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u217	No, Mr Eerdmans asks me... I hope that will happen soon and if it is up to me, we should really try to be an end in June, as far as I am concerned at the beginning of June. I hope that it all works out that we come to the question: who is going to take a shot at it in the end? I have the ambition to be there. I do not know if it will happen, but if it does, we will take responsibility. In the first round, I gave my first preference to the scouts. It is also transparent, Mr Eerdmans has seen it. But of course we, as a group, will have to reconsider ourselves, also in the context of the substantive discussions that are taking place, which is a first priority, if that is the case, how all this is going and how it is going to lead to cabinet formation from the point of view of content. That's incalculable at the moment. But Mr Eerdmans rightly reminds me of my opinion to explorers on a particular order, in which JA21 also plays a role. We shall re-examine ourselves as a group. But when he says "we're suddenly in the gutter," I say, "no, we're not; only as a group we'll look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u218	Is it the group, or is it Mrs Kaag who has flagged back and said: 'Let JA21 cook in the soup, they do better in the opposition'? Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u219	I have every confidence in how you are going to do it in the opposition, because you are a talented politician, but the VVD Group ultimately determines what commitment we are going to make to the various talks that are going to take place in future rounds with informers, if we are allowed to have a role there, just as Mr Eerdmans is going to do, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u220	Mr President, as you rightly pointed out, the purpose of this debate was also to be able to take another step in the formation process. At the same time, it makes sense, as a result of the final report, to look at ideas about a more open administrative culture, another, more dualistic relationship between Chamber and Cabinet. We cannot discuss all this today, of course, but I am pleased that the VVD, Mr Rutte, has also put forward concrete proposals. I did have one more question about this, also in connection with the idea of a new club that should also stand up for citizens in trouble. Does he also see the risk, and does he think that we should also pay attention to this in the coming period, that with all kinds of new ideas we will also add new points of contact? While I often hear back, for example, in a debate when we only had here about the closure of the Hoenderloo Group, that citizens had the opportunity to go to the inspection, to the municipality, to the right window, to the regional centre of expertise, to the Unit of Complex Care Questions, and that it was all beautifully arranged from the government's point of view, but the citizen actually ended up in a maze if it just wanted to be helped. So how does he see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u221	That idea, which I'm putting here, was created precisely to prevent it. How do I see it? What I see in front of me is this. The government's taking on state trains. Those are talented people who come from the HBOs, from the colleges, from the universities and who choose the government. They're starting a training program. What I see in front of me is that as part of a trainee, you're part of this agency for one year. That agency consists of between 50 and 100 people. That is not an Ombudsman, because the Ombudsman is really something else. What this agency does is this. It's one window for everyone. When the window is called, by Mr. Van der Staaij or Mr. Rutte, the first question will be: "Have you tried it yourself at the Tax Office, DUO, UWV, an organization in the care that deals with the pgb, or whatever?" If the answer is, "No, I haven't tried it yet," you have to try it first. If the answer is, "Yeah, I tried, but I'm stuck," that desk will take over. That says, "Okay, I'll write down your name, I'm gonna figure it out for you." That's one window, one person who's your business manager at the time. He's gonna find out for you what's stuck somewhere in that organization. That has two advantages. Once you get stuck, you're gonna get to a club that's your human face from the government and try to fix it for you. The second big advantage is that trends become visible in that agency. Because if a lot of questions come back from a particular organization repetitively, then there is obviously something wrong there. That is why I want that agency to report to the Chamber and to the Cabinet. So this is one of my concrete thoughts. It's all in question. Once again, I am also curious about Mr Van der Staaij's ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u222	My idea would be this. There are so many implementation problems in the large implementing agencies that there would be huge profits if those large implementing bodies could get the human approach of people who are reporting with problems in order. Mr Joustra wrote a book about this. With all the new and very appealing and good ideas, the risk is that there will be another window instead of one going off. We want to learn together that we should not say yes to good ideas too quickly, in the vein of 'that's how we're going to do it'. We also need to look carefully at how that will work out in practice. Is it really all workable? My question is actually simple, and I want to end with that. What does Mr Rutte think of the follow-up process? How do all these ideas and motions that now come about on these subjects get a clear and good follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u223	First of all, on this particular point: it is not! That is, of course, the paradox. What you're making sure is that if he gets stuck once, someone can get to that desk. New York has such a system. Nine million people live in New York. They have such a system, with one phone number that you can call. People are trying to raise the problem for you as a sort of lawyer in the organisation involved and therefore to be able to see trends. That's one thing. What you achieve with this is not only that you ensure for the citizen that there is a face in the government, but also that you make sure that you can see that things are not going well. There are 50 to 100 well-educated young people who do this as part of their government education. What's the effect gonna be? Not only that Chamber and Cabinet are seeing trends. It is very annoying for large government organisations when those kinds of trends become apparent and when it turns out that they are not picking up those mistakes themselves. It will have a cleansing effect on the organization. Other than that, it's natural and-and. It is not that you are doing this rather than making sure that the large implementation organisations are strengthened. That must be done, but my prediction is that this will take years. It has to be done, but it's gonna take years. This is an intervention that you can do in advance, in combination with those major reorganisations, which ensure the human dimension and the accessibility of the government. The point is, if I'm stuck somewhere, I shouldn't be looking in that range of organizations and phone numbers. I need to be able to call one number, where someone says, "Did you try it yourself? Yeah? I'll take your name. Please state who you have or have not spoken to and what your number is, the case number or the last letter you received. I will come back to you very quickly and find out for you." That is what I want to achieve, but it is and-and what Mr Van der Staaij says. Then another question is how do I see the sequel? It seems to me that in the next few weeks, as far as I am concerned, under the guidance of Mrs Hamer, we are going to look at various aspects, including our political culture. In the motion we follow exactly the wordings of Herman Tjeenk Willink. We are also, of course, looking at the views of the parties on the major social issues, so that it can land back here in a larger debate. I do hope that others will come out of the chair and say: we are adding our ideas to that. If they say "Mr Rutte was right there and wrong there," fine, but let them also come up with their views. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you. Then I would like to thank Mr Rutte. I give the floor to Mrs Kaag. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders, of course, and then suspend for lunch. Then you can take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u225	Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Tjeenk Willink very much for his work. His assignment wasn't easy after the failed reconnaissance. The conclusion of Mr Tjeenk Willink is that the substantive information can now begin. The follow-up process he proposes follows the line of content. That appeals to me very much. Not just me, but also my party and many others. In the end, it's about the result. What is a next cabinet going to do to help the country move forward again? We've talked a lot about ourselves in the last few weeks, about our governance culture and our governance style. And we still have to work hard on this in the coming weeks, as it turns out, over the coming weeks and years. But what we must never lose sight of is that governance is ultimately a means of solving social and economic problems and improving the situation in our country for everyone who lives here. What are we doing about economic and social recovery? What do we do about the increasing inequality of opportunity, pre-corona, but also by corona? Do we comply with the Urgenda ruling in good time? And what are we doing about the climate crisis, the nitrogen problem and the housing shortage? The answers to these questions are really something we can talk about eight weeks after the elections. That is what the Netherlands has something to do, something to help people and what they can expect after the elections. The problems are too big to drag on any longer. Other countries manage to take real steps forward at this difficult time in history, in a corona crisis and a pandemic. In the United States, Biden pays $2 billion for economic support. Germany will increase climate targets to 65% CO reduction by 2030. Unlike the Netherlands, Belgium has submitted a plan for the European corona fund, which brings the country green, digital and social out of the crisis. I see Mr Wilders standing, but I leave it to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u226	I was just looking for a natural pause to have Mr Wilders interrupt. Is this some kind of break?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u227	I have a small paragraph. There is therefore every reason to proceed quickly with the next phase of the information. I have a question for the informant, but I can keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u228	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Wilders, and then Mr Azarkan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u229	It was 1 April and Mrs Kaag ended the debate with a motion of censure. She said, 'I say it now in my own words, 'I am actually a little done with Mr Rutte; this is where we separate our ways.' I think that was the literal story. I told you by interrupting that you actually decapitated him politically. Then you said, "I couldn't have said it better myself." That was the spirit of your story. What's happened since then? I read in the newspaper "I don't know if it's true "that you also spent a night in the Cat house with Mr Rutte, recently." Or maybe it was a long weekend; I don't know. What have you done with Mr Rutte? Can you say something about that? I just received by e-mail the motion that Mrs Kaag is about to table. Mr Jetten was kind enough to forward that motion. It's quite a book; I haven't quite read it yet, but underneath it are the names "Kaag" and "Rutte." So it's cake and cake again. What happened in that Cat house?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u230	I can be very short. Mr. Wilders is insinuating something. I have four children, two dogs, and I also have a husband. I'm a busy person, besides my working life, so I don't have much time for social contacts. Everything I do outside the door is work-related. And at regular intervals I have business conversations with many colleagues, when it matters. I do not think that this is the time to come back to it every time, as we now call it, there was a disapproval of the behaviour of the chairman of the VVD group in the context of 'exploratory gate'. Those were very strong words and I still support them. In the debate afterwards, I believe that it was 5 or 6 April that we also marked a line and that everyone has the duty to look at their own party and their own behaviour and to take responsibility, because the country rightly expects parties such as D66 and the VVD, but also the CDA and others, that we also look again at what we can do for the great challenges facing the country. We set the bar high. "Separate our ways," I said, Mr Wilders, about the fact that Mr Rutte spoke on my behalf. The big difference was I never talked about Pieter Ommzigt. So what he said on my behalf was true, but what he subsequently confirmed in all the debates and what he said at that time was wrong. And that's where we parted ways. But the problem is different. You always want elections. I would like to do something with the confidence of the one and a half million voters given to us. What are we gonna do? We don't know yet. Are the differences between D66 and the VVD very large? Yes. In terms of equality of opportunity, education, investment, the climate crisis, the rule of law. But we have to talk to each other if we're gonna move the country forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u231	That's a very long story, but just answer the question. Have you recently met Mr Rutte in the Catshouse, which is quite something, I think Mr Rutte is hardly ever in the Catshouse, having dinner and talking about politics? That's just a specific question. Why are you vague about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u232	I already told you. I'm not vague about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u233	Did you or didn't you? You can just answer that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u234	Your timing is wrong. I had lunch with Mr. Rutte at the Catshuis. Another time I drank coffee at another location. I also drink coffee and tea with Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen. No, not yet with Farid Azarkan, but you can. I do that to a lot of people. So wrong timing and good location. But you shouldn't pretend it's not normal for people in a political company, or even in a business company, to have conversations with each other. If we're going to be suspicious about that, we really have a bigger problem in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u235	Well, start being suspicious; of course there is a pattern. You have, I think, had that very well in terms of timing, that lunch with Mr Rutte at the Catshuis after the debate on 1 April. That wasn't before; you did it after that. So we didn't know that, and that's what you did in the back rooms of that thing. Before Mrs Bergkamp was appointed President, you also had contact with Mr Rutte and called him. Our present President owes her position to that back room politics. Something has changed: you were standing here on April 1st to pull Mr Rutte out and now, a few weeks later, you are tabling a motion with him. So I wonder what that new policy of yours is. For what has Mr Rutte done? Mr Rutte helped some vague motion by GroenLinks and the Labour Party to get a majority in the previous debate, he has seen it all on Monday, he has done a bit of talk at Nieuwsuur and he has bombed one of your partymates as President. Is that enough to go on with him in one go? Is that enough to say: I'm signing that motion, everything is ready and we're going back together? Is that the new leadership? A lunch, a President of the Chamber arranged and a "Mark, sign my motion"? Last time you filed the motion alone, but now his name is underneath it and he's just going on. New leadership? That's old leadership! That's old politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u236	It's not the content of what you're saying, but this was your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u237	It's convenient for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u238	Mr. Wilders, you've been in this for 22 years. You yourself, I believe, have been in tolerant constructions. I was abroad, so I never read what you did in back rooms. It doesn't matter. The difference is that I make agreements and I'm transparent about them. And I'm free to choose dates for follow-up and coffee arrangements. I'm free in that; I live in a free country. It is my responsibility, as the leader of the second largest party, that is not the PVV, but D66 to see how we can arrive at a content and an orderly process to advance politics. Does this mean we're going to rule? No. Does this mean the VVD is leading a formation? Not necessarily, either. Does this mean we're coming to Mr. Rutte? Not at all. We're not talking about dolls yet; that's your idea fixe. The content and the people in this country are asking that politics should show itself to be responsible. And that's what a number of parties here do. That's the big difference. I am not participating in your innuendo and your insinuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u239	Madam President, I will conclude. But Mrs Kaag is just wheeling and dealing behind the scenes. Once again, you cannot deny that you said very big words to Mr Rutte on 1 April. Now you're under one motion together, but you couldn't even get through one door! You said the roads separate from each other. And now there is a motion together and you are sitting next to each other in the benches, winking when Mrs Bergkamp was elected President of the Chamber. You gave him some credit, you had lunch with him, you got Mrs Bergkamp President of the Chamber, you got a motion from the left and everything just goes on again. I predict you'll be running with Mr. Rutte in no time. You're fooling the whole of the Netherlands and this is all a big act. And then you will give us all the misery you just mentioned: more Europe, more climate and more immigration. You will be able to crown yourself to the Queen of the Binnenhof and you will be pleased, but it is bad for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u240	Oh, well, what can you say to that? I can also predict one thing: you are not going to rule, Mr. Wilders, because you are excluded by many parties. And then I'll go back to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u241	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u242	It may also be a bit painful to be right. Mr Wilders did not agree with me last time I said: Mrs Kaag is going to perform a play and is going to say "foei." Then Mr Rutte will say: I'm going to do something new, I'm going to pull something out of the closet. We're getting a play that nobody saw anything in except Mrs. Kaag. He said, "I see change." The trailer was better than the movie, at least the announcement was better than the movie, because I didn't see a trailer. However, it was sufficient for Mrs Kaag to table a motion together. I told you at the time, she's just sitting on her lap now, of course. I ask Mrs Kaag through you, Mr President, how can you do that? How can you turn down someone's behavior so strongly and just sit on her lap in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u243	I find "sitting on my lap" an inappropriate suggestion against a female politician. I'm just saying. I find that rather sexist, thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Once, but not anymore, please. Secondly, I have shown on the content that we want to see in every step what we can do from D66, a progressive-liberal party, for the country. 1.5 million voters expect it and want it. The conditions under which they are exactly what we want to talk about. Governance, strengthening the rule of law, what we want to do in Europe, a different position, a different voice, different choices, climate crisis, inequality of opportunity. Stay on the sidelines and stay behind the interrupting microphone, the country will not bring us as D66. Are we going to rule? That wasn't said. Do we wish to continue the process in order, on the basis of the findings of Mr Tjeenk Willink, who has done his reconnaissance on behalf of our Chamber and where your input is in it? Do we want to talk about that? That is the thrust of this motion and there are no parties to it as a final outcome and there are no names under it either. It would be so nice if we could talk today about the content and possible choices, because that is where the roads can be separated. That's party and personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u244	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u245	Ridiculous to suggest that something is a sexist remark. If you are sitting on someone's lap, that means that Mrs Kaag knows very well exactly what happened at the beginning of this debate. Mr Rutte already announced what Mrs Kaag was going to do, while she said a few weeks ago 'that's the last time Mr Rutte spoke on my behalf'. He actually did that again when he was just standing there. Then it's just a normal expression when you say "you're sitting on someone's lap." And it just is. I appeal to Mrs Kaag for her credibility. When she was outside, she said, "I'd quit myself." She said, "I don't think it's credible." She said, "What he said is "Just lying" in her words. My question is once again to Mrs Kaag how credible she finds herself when she sits on her lap again a few weeks later to join the next cabinet... We know that will happen. You'll be vice prime minister under Rutte. That is going to happen, and the whole of the Netherlands knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u246	Then all of the Netherlands and you know more than I do. I would like to talk about the content, the great challenges, the solutions and the total differences in ideas that we have. I look in a very different way than Mr Rutte and his party at the role of the government, the public sector, autonomy, the importance of investing, the importance of strengthening and that costs money, for example. We all have great differences in substance, but I have also been a peace envoy, and I also know that you have to deal with those with whom you have the greatest differences, at some point, under conditions. For example, the motion of GroenLinks and the PvdA, the motion Segers and other motions help us to do so. You should sit down at the table. That's the only way to see if you can get out for the good of the country. Then we'll see if we can join the party and then we'll see who's gonna sit on behalf of the party. But it's not a running game. This is a necessary step, and I believe that it is necessary in the interests of the credibility of politics. As the second largest party, I see that as our responsibility. Is it popular? Maybe not. Is it necessary and responsible? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u247	You have no further questions, Mr. Azarkan, and so do Mrs. Ouwehand. I treat all parties the same. There are also colleagues who stick very neatly to the agreed number of interruptions, so I really want to stick to that. You will continue your speech, Mrs Kaag. You had another question for the informant. A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u248	No, I'm just looking between my own papers for page two of my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u249	Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm not going to allow you another question. Perhaps at the end there will be an opportunity for a second term. But there are also parties that are very close to the number of interruptions and for me all parties are equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u250	Madam President, I have just lost page two of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u251	Point of order, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u252	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm a little surprised. I assume you do not count my point of order in your direction as an interruption. That point of order in your direction was precisely about this debate being about trust. I would like to ask Mrs Kaag...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u253	Mrs Ouwehand, I see your point now. You did ask me a question, but we can see that as a point of order. That means you have one question left, so I will give you the opportunity to ask that question. I understand that quite frankly; Mrs Ouwehand simply has a point there. Fair enough. One question for Mrs Ouwehand. That does not apply to Mr Azarkan, because we counted very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u254	Then I shall leave my question with a repeat of the remark in your direction that this debate is simply about the follow-up to the motion adopted. That motion expressly said that we would ask Mr Tjeenk Willink to find out if and if so how there would be confidence. My simple question to Mrs Kaag is now: what is the answer? I am getting a little confused from her speech. Everyone agrees that the problems in this country need to be solved, but we know that two things are needed. We need a cabinet to solve the problems, but first we need to know who we can trust. I would like an answer to that question. Has that question been answered for D66 and put their trust in Rutte as foreman of the VVD to govern along?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u255	You know, I know you like to ask that question every time. I think we should just build on content and trust with each other. I'm from the school "see first, then believe." We'll see at the end of the trial. Then the whole of the Netherlands can think about us whether we can all respect a new governance culture, a new governance style and political style. That being so, we can show the whole country that we are worthy of our own calls, because as far as I am concerned, we are all on the line. See first, then believe. We do this through the content and through the agreements and frameworks that we can make with each other. We are only on the eve of a substantive process. I think that's very important. Everyone has to ask themselves that question. By the way, the whole debate reminded me a little of what D66 has been in favour of for decades: an elected Prime Minister. I might almost table a motion on it. Then I add my own addition: two deadlines. But, yeah, I don't think everyone signs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u256	You had another question, Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u257	Yes, I have another question for Mr Tjeenk Willink. Mr Tjeenk Willink suggested that the following informant should seek agreement on a recovery and transition policy, and also make an inventory of other major urgent problems. At the same time, he writes that recovery policy cannot be separated from the inequality of opportunity in education, the labour market, the nitrogen crisis and the pace at which we have to build houses. Actually, it's already the day before yesterday, so to speak. I'd like to ask him to clarify that phaser. Is there not so much coherence between recovery policy and other major problems that the separation between these two will prove very difficult and too complex in practice? Mr. Chairman. Informateur Tjeenk Willink has made a sharp analysis of the problems in our democratic rule of law. Strengthening the democratic rule of law is an important task for the Cabinet and for the Chamber. In doing so, it is my firm belief that trust in the government can only exist if the government actually starts to trust the citizens again. This isn't just about governance, power or opposition. The way of governance is a means that is ultimately at the service of one goal: a stronger, fairer and more inclusive Netherlands. This concerns not only rules and laws, but also attitudes and political culture. A foundation of confidence and moderation, rather than mistrust and escalation. Perhaps that heart cry of informant Tjeenk Willink is, as far as I am concerned, the most important message to all of us, whether we are in the opposition or in a coalition. In the end, with all 150 Members of Parliament, we also have responsibility for the administration of our country. In that sense, it gives confidence... I'm gonna stop for a second, because this is a call to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u258	Mr. Azarkan, could you keep your voice down and a little distance, if you'd like. Mrs Kaag is also suffering from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u259	Let me repeat it again, because Mr Hoekstra and Mr Rutte are not paying any attention either. In the end, with all 150 Members of Parliament, we also have responsibility for the administration of the country. In this sense, the confidence that a large part of this Chamber sees opportunities for the formation of a cabinet. I hope that we will be able to move forward with it without any delay. To that end, I shall table a motion. It was a second term, but it has now become a first term. It is a very long text, Madam President. Everyone's got the motion. I can also modernise and not read it, because the text does not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u260	Will you read the motion now, in the first term? Or in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u261	I do not think I need to read the text. Modernization! Efficiency! Okay, I hear I have to read the motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the assignment and the discussions carried out, informant Tjeenk Willink has produced a substantive and guiding report laying the basis for the follow-up to the formation;]] [[Considering that the report of informant Tjeenk Willink shows that a vast majority of the parties in the upcoming phase of the formation want to emphasise the common approach to societal challenges;]] [[Considering that it is also clear that there is a broad desire for a different style of administration and more dualism, as shown by the Klaver/Ploumen motion adopted (28362, nr. 44), the motion for a resolution of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. (28362, No. 47) and the Segers c.s. motion (28362 No. 52);]] [[Under Rule 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure M.I. Hammer as an informant, with the task of:]] [[on the basis of the findings and report of informant Tjeenk Willink, the input of parties, the expertise of departments, using existing reports and advice and what the informant considers necessary, to seek political agreement for recovery or transition policies that cannot be separated from a number of long-standing problems in the economy and society;]] [[identify, in particular on the basis of the report by informant Tjeenk Willink, which (other) urgent, major issues should be developed as a matter of priority in order to reach a general government agreement and to define and underpin, as precisely as possible, the objectives and problems identified, with the obstacles to achieving that objective or resolving that problem;]] [[identify priority agreements to restore and strengthen the democratic rule of law;]] [[examine the parties' willingness to negotiate a coalition agreement on the basis of the contours of the policy to be pursued, as examined by the informer;]] [[report to the House of Representatives by 6 June 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kaag and Mr Rutte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u263	I'm assuming... A majority supports the submission. On the basis of the above, I concluded that there was such a need. I'll take a look around. That's how you formally filed the motion. Mrs Marijnissen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u264	We did just get the motion through the app. Mrs Kaag read the motion. I would like to point out to her that, of course, many people are also watching this debate. Mrs Kaag calls a round, or goes down, as it is called in The Hague's jargon. The SP hasn't been called. Well, we know from the leaked pieces that at D66 the SP is on the list at the PVV and Forum, with serious doubts. Anyway, we all know the motion now, and that is what my question is about. Mrs Kaag often uses very large and abstract terms in my opinion. I hear her say 'by the lines of content', or 'the great issues for the future'. I hear her talking about solutions and so on. But my question is very specific. What has Mrs Kaag heard in concrete terms from Mark Rutte in connection with the solid debate on 1 April, which now has a motion from both of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u265	Mrs Kaag. This was your last question for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u266	You're making it very personal again. I have already said before: D66 is about content. We would like to discuss this further on the basis of our electoral promise, the support of voters, the content that we have entered into and put on paper, and the priorities that we have shared with the explorers Ollongren and Jorritsma. These priorities have not been leaked, but have just been formally published. And indeed, that is what my concerns are about some parts of the election programme of, for example, the Socialist Party. To be honest, the things I just mentioned do not correspond one-on-one to what I heard at Nieuwsuur, or to what Mr Rutte said today. I would not have called his ideas "radical" either, because many ideas have already been decided and are already laid down in motions, by GroenLinks, of the PvdA. And many of those ideas have been part of D66's ideas for a long time. But that's not so bad. I said it's a start. And I share Mr Rutte's appeal that we should all come up with ideas to improve governance and political culture in such a way that people in the Netherlands, the citizens, benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u267	Mrs Marijnissen, you've already gone through your questions. Excuse me. It's very difficult, but if I do it by one, so does the other. And then there's all kinds of people on it. There may be a second deadline. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij. If I don't maintain the number of interruptions, it's gonna be tricky. Mr Klaver probably has an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u268	Mr. Chairman. I might have a suggestion. I very much agree that you are maintaining the interruptions, but a motion has now been tabled. Normally, questions could also be asked about this in the second term. I can imagine that we will allow at least questions to be asked about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u269	Sure. That is why I have allowed Mrs Marijnissen's first question on the motion. It was already extra. If I allow another question, everyone's gonna ask questions about it. I just want to allow one more question when it comes to the text of the motion. Is everyone okay with that? Yeah, everybody's saying okay. Good proposal from Mr. Clover. I shall give the floor very briefly to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u270	I didn't just start interrupting for nothing saying that Mrs. Kaag made a call. She has sunk, as it is called in The Hague's jargon. All the parties were apparently already aware of this motion and have even been able to talk about it and deliver things. We don't. I'm hearing this now. I have a lot of questions about this, especially to Mrs Kaag. It was she who tabled a motion on 1 April that literally stated that Mark Rutte, as leader of the VVD, has damaged the restoration of the citizen's confidence in the government that was the literal text of the motion. That is why I think it is a very logical, very simple and very concrete question to Mrs Kaag what she has heard from that same Mr Rutte over the past month, which has restored that confidence. I take it you're not going to make this motion now. I conclude that there will be no answer and that you blame me for getting personal. Then you say: we are of the content. When I look at what was in the discussion notes about why D66 does not want to cooperate with us, namely that we would like to leave the European Union, I say to Mrs Kaag: that has nothing to do with the content, because that is not what the SP wants at all. I think it's kind of hypocritical of me to put that here. I think I am simply asking a very normal question on the basis of your own motion of 1 April, in which you say that Mark Rutte is damaging the restoration of public confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u271	But there's always something like chronology. We have had a number of debates. Motions have been passed. We have also had other debates, and we have all looked at how we should proceed now. I believe, for example, that the motion by GroenLinks and PvdA, which we have also supported, is a very important one. But it's gonna take a lot more than that. When I look at your party programme and your attitude, it is not just the European Union or your study of the euro that concerns me. It is my good right as the most well-known pro-European party to do so for decades. We disagree. That is not hypocritical, but a political difference in substance. I'd like to mark that, thanks to you. The second is, and that is even more important, that you ask each time what has changed since 1 April. I think Mr Rutte has had some very difficult debates. You were right to do that. He also says that the whole Chamber ran over him. He himself says that he can do it. The important thing is, we're gonna see first and then we're gonna believe. We're there ourselves. But we also have a responsibility, so I'm not throwing everything over the fence to one person, one party. We have 24 seats to share and bear that responsibility. When it comes to motions, we talk to a number of parties about what they think. But the moment is here in the debate. It is your right to think differently. That's part of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u272	I have a question about the text of the motion. That question relates to the last part, which also states: to see which parties could work together on the basis of these talks. Is it true that this is a new element in relation to what was in the final report? Because I did not see that in Mr Tjeenk Willink's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u273	That's right. It is in any case also a D66 intention. We want to hurry. We believe that eight difficult weeks have passed, but also eight weeks that have been at the expense of most people in the country. I can assure you that before I worked at the Binnenhof, it was not only impossible to follow, but it also has no interest if you are not involved in this matter on a daily basis. People want to know: will there be a cabinet and what will it do for me and for my children? That is why I would like to state an urgency. That's the big difference, also to give it concreteness, so that we don't stay in conversation forever, because we're getting further and further away from the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u274	I can imagine anything you say: include it in this phase, otherwise it will take a very long time. I will also put a question to Mr Tjeenk Willink myself in my term. One more question about the choice for the informant, Mrs Hamer, President of the Economic and Social Council. It has also been said by others that she obviously has a past here, including in the PvdA Group. Did that play a role, too? Is this pre-sorted to a cabinet of a particular color or is that not the issue? I believe that it is good to have clarity about this motion, including for the parties' voting behaviour on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u275	I can assure you of that. There is absolutely no correlation with her party membership or her former political role on behalf of the PvdA. I myself came at a very early stage with Mariëtte Hamer, because I think her role from the ESC is very credible and because she works with the polder, with a broad civil society, both economic and organised trade unions and others. I have a lot of faith in her myself, but it's also important that I'm here as forewoman of D66. I'm just choosing someone I think can enjoy broad confidence through her experience, but it's sort of nothing and nobody for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u276	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Dassen. That's his last interruption, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u277	As group chairman of a European party, I am, of course, extremely pleased that Mrs Kaag says she is very pro-European. That also kind of triggers me, because I look back on the past few years, in which the cabinet has not really run a pro-European course. I wonder if Mrs Kaag can briefly reflect on that. But in view of the major challenges that you and I face together, how are you going to ensure that we do so much better at European level in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u278	I do not need to repeat what I said in a number of speeches. I have very mixed feelings about the European outlook of this cabinet. That's not all of D66's, but we're in a cabinet and at some point you have to make choices. If you're ever gonna grow up, you're gonna find out. At the same time, it is important that I have also indicated, even on Sunday, 9 May, that it is very important for D66 that a much more pro-European course can be put forward in terms of tone, attitude and choices. In my opinion, the Netherlands can play a greater role in the major challenges of climate change, recovery and geopolitical relevance, but Europe is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u279	Thank you. We are going to clean up for a moment and then I will give the floor to Mr Wilders for his first term. After that, lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u280	Mr. Chairman. There he sat, Tuesday night at the state television station, to inform the people about his radical ideas about a new governance culture and to regain confidence. But what we saw in Rutte's interview was radical arrogance, a prime minister in injury time, with a total inability to self-reflection. Okay, here and there he had made a mistake, but he was especially proud of ten years of Rutte, said Mark Rutte, and he wasn't planning on doing anything else all of a sudden. A day before the interview, Mr Omtzigt had sent another text message. "Can we see each other?', He had asked, "preferably Friday already." I quote: "I want to know exactly where your anger is," Rutte says. What a fake! The man whose cabinet revolves around the Chamber and for years has informed the Chamber incompletely and wrongly about the supplemental affair, the man who wanted to get rid of "a function elsewhere" and lied about it, the man who is partly responsible for the fact that Omtzigt is now sick at home, wonders where his anger is exactly. Anyone who wonders is unfit to be prime minister for another day. And who's gonna believe him? His memory disappears as soon as he gets into trouble, such as with the dividend tax memo, the bombing of Hawija, the receipts of Bitches, Zijlstra's visit to Putin and "Omtzitzit, function elsewhere" from the Ollongren affair. Mark Rutte always only goes there to stay in the Tower and save his own ass. Again. If we hadn't seen the Ollongrennotitie, Rutte would never have mentioned a new governance style or more dualism. Never. Mr. Chairman. In a normal country, where a parliament behaves like a lion, it had already been sent home ten times, but I fear that will not happen. We're being fooled. They're all political games. I'll tell you what's gonna happen, where this whole charade is gonna lead, because everything's already set up in the back room. If it's Rutte, Hoekstra and Kaag, they won't agree, there will just be a Cabinet-Rutte IV with VVD, CDA and D66, where the Christian Union will be replaced by the Labour Party, perhaps even supplemented with GroenLinks. Mrs Hamer of the Labour Party is already ready as a new informant and Mrs Kaag enjoyed lunching with Rutte in the Catshuis, so she too is now in the boat. The power also tastes better for Mrs Kaag than the principles. So we will soon have a center-left cabinet, a cabinet with even more immigration, more crime, more climate hysteria, more European Union and less national sovereignty. A total disaster cabinet: Mrs Kaag as the Queen of the Binnenhof, Rutte as Prime Minister and with a bit of bad luck Clover as Deputy Prime Minister. No wonder more and more Dutch leave our country. We, as PVV, will fight that cabinet with conviction and uncompromisingness from day one. But our preference was another one. I have also communicated this very clearly and consistently to Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant. Quick elections to get a fresh start with new mandates and political relations. A situation in which we, as constructive as we are, would also like to bear that government responsibility in order to make the Netherlands again a country with reliable politicians with guts, backbone and principles that defend the interests of the Dutch rather than betraying them for their own power. I say to you, Mr President, as long as we in the House of Commons behave not as a lion but as a lamb and reward politicians like Rutte for lies and deceit instead of sending them away, as long as we do so as a lamb, nothing will change at all and the pursuit of a new governance style and more dualism is cosmetic chatter in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-4.u281	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I suggest we suspend for lunch until 2:15 p.m.
