ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on the economic aid package. Today is Wednesday, June 2, 2021. I would like to welcome the leaders: the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with the Members to keep four questions or comments in the first term of the Chamber. Whether it's a question or a comment, I count four. Then later, because there are three directors, we can keep six questions or comments. It is nice if we can do this briefly and forcefully, because then we can make it a lively debate. Today we also have three maiden speeches: first of all by Mr Romke de Jong of D66, then by Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks and by Mr Van Baarle of DENK. I propose that at the end of the first term of office we suspend briefly for the congratulations, because it is always a very special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a beautiful summer day today. Perhaps that reflects the feeling that many people in the Netherlands have: there is light at the end of a very dark tunnel, of a pandemic that has controlled and affected our health, that has affected our society and the way we had to live and that has also affected our economy. It is good that we have chosen from the outset a broad and sound support package to ensure that companies, entrepreneurs and employees could stay at work as much as possible or at least receive support so that they can reach the end of that tunnel. However, I have five points for this debate. This debate is about the support package. I have five points on this. The first concerns the duration of that aid. The cabinet opts for a full support package until 1 October with the addition of a debt regime for the tax debts of entrepreneurs. That of course has the support of the Labour Party. But the question is: is the crisis over after 1 October for sectors seriously affected? I refer to the tourism sector, the catering industry, the event sector. My expectation is that this aid will have to last longer for those hard-hit sectors. So I ask the cabinet if it is prepared to give a clear assurance by 1 October that every entrepreneur will continue to benefit from the support that is needed. Secondly, it is important that we help workers who are still at risk of losing their jobs with a job guarantee. What's going on with that? My impression is that that is not working out well in practice. My second point concerns Booking.com. "Everyone for himself and everything for us" must have the top of Booking.com as a motto in the boardroom. Because while the Netherlands started in a crisis in which entrepreneurs thought "how do I keep my business going?', The top of Booking.com thought only one thing: "How do I keep our bonus? How do I keep my bonus?" It's 25 million. Meanwhile, they receive more than 100 million in state aid; scandalous and immoral. I ask the Cabinet to do everything in its power to explore all the avenues and perhaps to cross the lines to ensure that Booking.com has to repay that state aid, because this is not fair to all those entrepreneurs and people who do it properly. What's the Cabinet gonna do? And does the cabinet also engage in a conversation to at least ask the moral question: how do you feel now? How do you feel as a Dutch company? We expect more than money. Making money is of course a good thing, but when you do in the Netherlands, we expect social entrepreneurship from everyone. Three. The minures. While Booking.com enriched with a bonus and meanwhile received state aid, Wibra employees and security guards at Schiphol Airport, who work for just over the minimum wage, had to work overtime for free, because they were forced home during the lockdown and therefore built up minures because of the collective agreement. While those companies, the security companies and the Wibra, also received corona support, these companies now expect these people to return those unelected minutes for free. I also think that this is immoral and scandalous, and I would also like to make a clear statement on this matter from this Minister for Social Affairs. How does he feel about that? Four. The TONK. It is meant for thezzp'ers, who are still very difficult and have a lot of debts. It's good that that arrangement is in place. We should never have dropped that partner test in the Tozo. We have had that debate here and now we have the TONK, but we must ensure that every alderman interprets it. Is the Minister prepared to have a meeting with aldermen who fill that out very minimally? Can we perhaps agree on a minimum amount that aldermen should at least pay out? Five. Finally, social employment services. Social work is also having a hard time. She is also touched by the corona support. There are many people with disabilities who work there and do good work. Social employment also needs money for this year. Is the Minister, is the Cabinet prepared to deliver that money so that we can ensure on this beautiful summer's day in June we see the light at the end of the tunnel that all entrepreneurs, allzzp'ers and all the people in the country who are now falling between shore and ship will also reach that end? And as much damage-free as possible, because that's what they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr Van Dijk calls on the cabinet to engage in a discussion. Is it an idea to also talk to companies as a Chamber to ask the question he has put to Booking through the Minister? Is that an idea? I would ask Mr Van Dijk to do so, but I would also ask all other colleagues to take this into account in their own contributions. Then we can ask that question together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you for that question. Firstly, I call on the Cabinet to see what steps we can take to recover that support. I know that the first package did not contain the conditions that we did later set for the payment of bonuses. That's tricky. But the behavior is so scandalous, I think we should look further, at other possibilities. Secondly, I think that the cabinet should have the talk with the top people in the Netherlands, because entrepreneurship in the Netherlands is more than making money. It is also an eye for society, an eye for the social impact that you can have as a company. I am sure that as a Chamber we will have to do so ourselves. I'd like to have a public conversation with Booking here, so let's just send out that invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How antisocial can you be? Bringing in 100 million public support, firing thousands of people and then paying out 28 million in the form of a stock package, in the form of a bonus to well-known three directors. 28 million. I have heard the Minister say that he is not going to defend it, but I would ask the Minister today to call on Booking.com here to repay all support to the last penny. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Mr. Chairman. It is again the next example of error, immoral behavior, of cashing on corona. We've seen the bonuses at KLM. We have seen Mr Van Lienden, who makes a big profit on mouth caps. This is yet another example. The SP would therefore like to ask the Minister to consider creating a blacklist on which companies that abuse the corona situation are registered and then to exclude those companies from future benefits. I am thinking of investment pots that the government makes available. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We saw the Minister's response to the fraud at Booking.com in paying out those bonuses. How different was his reaction when, for example, it went wrong at a municipality where benefit recipients were cut because they got a bag of groceries. The bag with groceries has also become a lot more expensive and changed in composition. Now there's mouth caps, hand gel and extra soap in there. Is the Minister prepared to meet the demand that the FNV has made here at the Square? Is he willing to grant one-off benefits to beneficiaries? The FNV is asking for €150 that is a very modest amount for a single person and €250 for a family. Is the Minister prepared to do so? It's a good thing those support packages are there. There is no misunderstanding about that. It is also good that the aid packages should be extended. I agree with the call for them to be extended until 1 January to give that assurance. The criticism of the SP and its support packages remains valid. Because why is it that these self-employed people are still being treated so harshly? Why does someone who has a partner with an income receive €0 support if they knock on the door at the municipality? Why is that partner test in the Tozo? Why is this new scheme for self-employed persons, the TONK, not setting up a minimum amount, so that each municipality receives at least an amount equal to the minimum wage? Do that! The SP calls on the Minister to do so. Give entrepreneurs who do have a business but do not have their own front door for a company, also access to the support schemes of the TVL. A lot goes wrong there too. And then there are the minures. Companies record hours of employees that they will have to catch up with later, while receiving wage support. Is the Minister prepared to stop this and to make it impossible? Mr. Chairman. Last night, together with our SP department in Amsterdam, I posted posters around Booking.com's building headquarters in Amsterdam and at another Booking office in Amsterdam. Those posters have the call on Booking to pay back everything to the last penny. Is this minister willing to make the call to Booking here to pay back every penny? Is the Minister prepared to go to Booking together with the SP and instruct and call on the management to repay everything to the last penny and convince her of it? Because cashing on corona is wrong! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. Things are moving in the right direction right now. Many companies have already opened their doors or can do so in the short term. As it now looks like, if it's okay, a large part of almost the whole economy will open up again by 30 June and we can even start releasing the 1.5 meters somewhere around September. But that does not mean, of course, that all entrepreneurs will be out of trouble by 1 July. Think of wedding locations, events, nighthoreca, the travel industry, where many vouchers are also available, and many other sectors. They won't be running at full speed again from July 1st. It's gonna take a minute. So yes, macroeconomically you could say it's over, but the practice is different. That is why I think it is a good thing that the aid should remain at full strength in the third quarter, because we should not abandon this last group of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who, in my opinion, are having a particularly difficult time. I would like to raise two points in the debate, and I have a number of separate points at the end of the debate. First of all, the entire support package will be extended until 1 October, with an option possibly for the fourth quarter. A weighing moment is proposed for that. I agree with my colleagues that we should indeed do so with the information available at the time, except for the possibility of applying for tax deferral. It'll start on July 1st. We do not think that is very logical, because it is precisely those companies which are still not open, which still have no turnover, that are the first to receive that blue letter on the mat. Is the cabinet prepared to see if the tax deferral can be extended until 1 October? Then my biggest point. I am very concerned about the reimbursement operation, because these support packages were genuinely a mega operation, for many implementing organisations. We have to be honest about this, and we are going to have to deal with it for years to come. And entrepreneurs face four different government institutions: the UWV, the RVO, the Tax Administration and municipalities. And we are not even talking about private creditors, such as breweries, banks, landlords and so on. There are also many decisions within these public institutions: we have six NOW decisions, one TOGS decision, five TVLs, multiple tax debts etc., etc. And despite all the promises about a human size, I fear sincerely for the fear of entrepreneurs with mountains of envelopes with different colors ahead of them, so that they no longer see the forest through the trees. It is therefore crucial that we use a human dimension in this, and above all, most importantly, that we show in The Hague, Chamber, Cabinet and officials that we have learned from the Van Dam Committee and the Bosman Committee. Now is the time to show that we have learned from this. I would like to make a first proposal. In a previous debate, my colleague Mr Hermans already asked about the one-stop shop idea. The answer is in the letter. And let me be very honest about that: that's just hard for me. There is literally nothing there; there is no problem; everything is going well; all solutions are difficult, difficult, difficult, difficult. I simply find that too easy. I find that really too easy, and I do not do justice to both committees I have just mentioned. I am not asking for a system in which all four organisations are linked together to a single point of contact. I am talking about a permanent point of contact, with perseverance and with mandate. And I am therefore proposing a separate club of civil servants, who can act as a permanent point of contact for entrepreneurs who are in trouble, for entrepreneurs who simply no longer see the forest through the trees. Officials with mandates to look for those entrepreneurs in those four government organisations and make a tailor-made refund scheme. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it is prepared to develop this idea further, and also to make a proposal on the basis of the recommendations of the Bosman Committee, among other things. Then there are a few smaller points, Mr President, in my spare time. The cabinet indicates that large chains in difficulty can use customised solutions, but that they must be socially relevant. I would like the cabinet to look at that widely. Also a shop in a shopping street where the viability is under pressure is socially relevant. So let us save them in time and not let them die first. And why can't start-ups make an application at work society level, when that is the case in a regular TVL? Why this unnecessary condition? What about the Event Fund? This should be guaranteed by 1 July, but it now seems that this mustard will become after the meal. Finally, I agree with the TONK points that my colleagues have already mentioned. I'm shocked by the numbers of the municipalities. How hard can it be to just get that right with each other, I'd say. I know some good examples. I'd like to say to these municipalities: come on, get this done and get this better. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First, Mr Van Baarle of DENK, and then Mr Stoffer of the SGP, and then Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. Many entrepreneurs are likely to be in the process of paying off the debts they have in the Tax Administration alone for years to come. We have seen poignant stories of entrepreneurs who may have to turn in 50% of their turnover for three years in order to meet them. I am therefore pleased that Mr Aartsen, on behalf of the VVD, states that we are concerned about the fact that from 1 July onwards entrepreneurs will be subject to tax again. But I'd like it to be very sharp. Mr Aartsen asked in the direction of the government: look at ways of not doing so. But does the Group of the Party of European Socialists now firmly believe that from 1 July onwards, having to pay taxes for all those entrepreneurs who are in debt, not only with the Tax Administration but also with suppliers and landlords, will come too soon, and that this will cause the kick-start that we want to give to the economy, to get sand into the engine, and to hit those people even harder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you for this question. I may not have said it sharply enough: yes, we come as a VVD with the proposal to extend the tax deferral and not to have the blue letter delivered on 1 July but on 1 October. We have to be honest: we have to start paying taxes again. There are two certainties in life that one day you're gonna give the pipe to Maarten and you're gonna pay taxes. So that should come sometime, but indeed, July 1st is really too early. Entrepreneurs who can't do it will get into the problems and entrepreneurs who have just started may get into the trouble of liquidity. I'd like to say, delay it for another three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	I am glad that Mr Aartsen is so clear on behalf of the VVD. If there is a proposal, DENK's signature may also be included, if he appreciates it. Because we think 1 July is too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	Then we're gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. Then there is the second question I have for Mr Aartsen. I know him as someone who is always very concerned about the fate of entrepreneurs. The question is what to do after October. The expectation is that, even after October, even if we are partly open, there will still be major problems. Can Mr Aartsen give an insight into the position of the VVD Group with regard to what should be done after October with the support package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	I can provide insight into the position of the VVD Group. The complicated thing is that we can't give an insight into what's going on at the time, because it's just really insecure. It may be that there's some weird mutant and we're back to square one. Please, let's hope that doesn't happen. But of course it may also be that things are going well and that there is still support for a very specific group of entrepreneurs. We have always said that the starting point for the aid is that you give support to entrepreneurs who suffer from the restrictions or their spread. So yes, I am open to looking at support in the fourth quarter as well. But I think you should change it. You just mentioned the tax debt. There are major problems with small, specific groups. You also see a very large group waiting and thinking: I can pay for it in principle, but I keep my hand on the cut, because I don't know what's going to happen. There's gonna have to come a time when you're gonna let things get back to normal economically, without losing sight of that group that I think we're both fighting for. We should definitely look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Aartsen pointed out that it should concern entrepreneurs affected by the restrictions. But even if the restrictions have been lifted, of course entrepreneurs still experience the burden of having to suffer from these restrictions for a year. Does Mr Aartsen at least share the view of the DENK Group that, after October, even if we are expected to be completely open again, we will not be able to cut down on this package of aid? Because then entrepreneurs who have just opened up and are able to turn back a bit of turnover will become affected, because in revenue they are greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	When the two ministers came to us, to the group, for coffee, I used a number of examples. An example was an event entrepreneur with 60 employees. He has one big event in May. This is a major event, which cannot be postponed to September due to environmental legislation. So yes, he missed this year and has to sing it out until next May. He may start his ticket sales a little earlier, etc., but the months of August, September, October and November are complicated with zero support. Then I'll tell the cabinet to take a good look at that in a minute. I get that you're saying, "Let's get Q3, the third quarter first." But look at the information you have and look for a new weighing moment. Then keep your eye on the ball for this kind of entrepreneurs. At the same time, entrepreneurs who can stand on their own feet must also do so. I don't think they want anything better either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	There was a letter in my mailbox this morning, and I also think in Mr Aartsen's mailbox. In fact, I think it's all colleagues'. It was a letter from Mr Ziegs and Mrs Van Acht. I think Mr Aartsen will know what letter it is about the branch companies: nineteen weeks of compulsory closure and serious damage. My question is: what did it do to Mr Aartsen when he saw this letter? What was he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	Over the last year and a half I have spoken to many entrepreneurs and received many of these letters. Think of the seasonal companies that didn't get anything in the first tranche. I remember very well that I regularly spoke to Minister Koolmees on the phone in April/May last year, about entrepreneurs who had just started, had taken out a personal loan and did not receive any support. We've been constantly trying to find out what's possible. It's worked sometimes. Some of it worked out and some of it didn't. I can tell you that my phone has been in my living room regularly, by phone calls to the cabinet because things couldn't be done. So that certainly affects me. All the time we try to see what we can do. It may not be the perfect thing everyone wants, but it is about what can still be arranged for entrepreneurs who get into trouble, not to get them 100% free of damage, because they can never do it, but to ensure that they do not fall over. Hence my request for a tailor-made solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	Well, at least that's pretty good. I would have expected Mr Aartsen to be struck by such a letter. Of course, it is not just about companies; it is about 180,000 jobs. If you don't watch out, jobs will fall due to reorganisations and bankruptcies. It is also about the shopping streets in Ermelo, Middelburg, Emmen and you name it in this country, because if there is a reorganisation, it will not happen in the shops in Amsterdam, Haarlem or The Hague, so in the big cities, because there is a lot of turnover. So it's about those shopping streets that I just mentioned and where it's about to go. If you have to clean up, you're gonna do it as an entrepreneur there, and that's gonna cost jobs. That is what we are seeing now, as we also notice from this letter and all the messages. Does Mr Aartsen agree with me that there should be genuine tailor-made work, an arrangement or whatever for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u23	Hence my question to the cabinet. The cabinet says that we can provide tailor-made services, but companies must be socially relevant. Of that I say: ho, wait a minute; that's a nice term, but what do you mean, cabinet? You can say that a store is interchangeable and so on, but I always say that a store is much more than a hub with stuff, because it provides liveliness and liveability on the shopping street, not so much in the top ten cities in the Netherlands, but in the small and medium-sized municipalities where such a centre is crucial for the viability and future of the people who live and work there. Hence my question to the cabinet as to how it assesses the term'socially relevant'. I would add that I believe that entrepreneurs who are so embedded in the shopping streets in those villages and cities are socially relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA and then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u25	I find it hard to say, but this was just a good input from the VVD. But I missed something. Nothing is happening here, but I thought: giving the VVD a compliment on this beautiful day may be rare, but in this case it is right. But I missed the point that Mr Aartsen himself made at De Nieuws BV, where he talked about Booking.com and vultures, on which I think we agree. However, is Mr Aartsen not looking for a way to recover that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yes. The reason why I said that in De Nieuws BV and now in the limited four minutes speaking time we have talked a lot over the last few weeks about the administrative culture here in The Hague is that this is the time to actually move a stone in the river. Hence my input on this official team in particular to protect those entrepreneurs from that bureaucratic spider web. I've decided to do that in these four minutes and that was hard enough, I can say. For the sake of clarity, I agree with that call. We have to look at what can be done and at the same time we have to be honest that this will be very difficult, which does not alter my moral view of vultures' behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u27	In addition to Mr Stoffer, I would also like to say a few words about the subsidiaries. I am glad that you mention it, and I am also glad that you are talking about the criterion that these companies should be socially relevant. Of course, that's a little skinny. Suppose the gentlemen go with you in box K and they broaden that criterion, then we still have to deal with the fact that they must have made 30% turnover losses and that the TVL is limited to 1.2 million. So it's a much bigger problem. It is true that almost 200,000 jobs are involved. So don't you think there should just be a generic arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u28	I've called for that a number of times. However, I am susceptible to the arguments of the cabinet that this is just terribly difficult in certain cases. When we look back at the debates we have had here in a number of years, we will see that everyone with sincere intentions wanted, saw problems and tried to fight things for each other, but that we have always run into reality with regard to what is feasible and what is not feasible. That goes for this, too. Then we can all turn our heads and say we have to, but that doesn't change the practice. That's why you have to keep looking for what you can. Hence my call for this tailor-made solution, which I hope will provide relief for those entrepreneurs who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u29	It is not about what is feasible and not feasible. Of course, it's just a financial matter. Do you not agree with me that it would be much easier to assess all this by e.g. instead of placing it in a group or branch, which means that you are dealing with that restriction and thus punishing a larger company, while ultimately it involves a lot of different branches?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u30	No, it's not a financial issue. It has to do with feasibility. Is it possible to set up these arrangements? Can you do that? The individual assessment of e.g.'s sounds wonderful, but we also know what numbers are involved, in addition to the numbers that are already there. That's what's in the Cabinet's letter. Again, we share the intention to look at what is possible, but we can't magic any of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u31	So we really disagree on this, because of course it is perfectly possible to assess the different bv's. That's not a problem at all. In addition, you put it with the branch or the e.g. who has the problem. They'll have to file it themselves. So there is no practical problem at all. I think I made a motion on that once. You didn't support it, by the way. But now we have a situation in which we are going to wait for bankruptcy and we might do some customization just before bankruptcy, asking: can the criterion of "socially relevant" be widened? I hope that, if I make a motion later, you will think with me to at least try to keep these 200,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u32	I think we're all trying to do the last thing here. It is interesting to see that Mr Van Haga thinks he can do magic himself. I don't think it's gonna work. I don't think we can magic any of us. The same applies in this situation. Then we can do two things here. You can say "it has to and it will" et cetera, but then we won't get anywhere. We're sitting here with each other to help things out a little bit. Then you have to look for viable solutions. I'm trying to make a contribution to that with my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u33	Finally, Mr President. The conclusion is that these types of companies are simply going bankrupt and it is really too late to help these companies. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u34	We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u35	The VVD and the SP are upset about the situation at Booking. Is Mr. Aartsen willing to call on the management of Booking.com together with the SP to repay the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u36	I made that call last week, so I'm sure I'll go along with that. I think that would be wise, by the way. We saw that Auping is a good example, let's also mention the good examples that have been done neatly. We know that a lot of entrepreneurs quickly applied for NOW in this situation. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who have concluded: I didn't need that at the time, so I'm going to pass that on nicely. That's admirable. So I'm definitely joining that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u37	That's good news. I think it is important that in this Chamber we say to the Board of Booking from left to right: all the money must be returned. The SP will be filing a motion with you shortly, in which the Chamber will rule to call on the board to pay back all those pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u38	It is a good thing that in this hopefully last debate on the support package I have secretly hoped that in this economic situation Mr Van Kent and I will be able to find each other like this!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u39	There is another interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u40	We know Mr. Aartsen as "the entrepreneur." The PVV is very concerned about the huge debt mountain in many companies. What if you have a little restaurant now and you finally get to open up? Then you get those blue envelopes and you have to pay back, 'cause maybe you just had too much. In the end, it is all in the fog, based on estimates. So you get a thick envelope from the UWV or you want to pay back €30,000. The RVO gives you an envelope and also from the Tax Administration. At some point, you look at all those envelopes. Then you'll see that you're not open for a week, that you're going to be okay. You're in the mood again and that the terrace is full, but you have four or two tons of debt. So that means you're gonna have to give up all your winnings for the next three or four years. You work three, four years for nothing. Isn't it smarter, then, you tell your accountant to pull the plug? Aren't you afraid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u41	That's what I'm really afraid of. That is what I am very afraid of, and that is why I am making a concrete proposal. I was not satisfied with the answer of the cabinet, which said: no, no, we are going to arrange it all individually. It was also a recommendation from the Bosman Committee. Last Monday, you and I were in a technical briefing with executive UWV. That was already indicated at the time: it becomes very difficult to put together on one A4 NOW 1 and NOW 2. They were very frank and honest about that. I was pleased and grateful for that, because I think it strengthens us in our mission to do it properly. So I too am very worried about that, because you do have breweries, landlords, etcetera, etc. So let's start with one club that can map that well for entrepreneurs in need. And from there, of course, you can also make calculations: shouldn't we still have something to do with forgiveness in individual cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u42	Of course, the one-stop shop and the one-stop shop are nice, but that doesn't reduce the debt. I'm very, very afraid that... So far the bankruptcies have not been possible, because everyone got the support packages and everyone has pushed through the hot potato, but I'm afraid now that we're opening up again, a lot of companies, for lack of a successor or perspective for the next four or five years, are drawing the conclusion: it's more interesting to go bankrupt and to start under another e.g. That is the case if you state it, because it is force major, so you are not jointly and severally liable. So I think there are going to be a lot of bankruptcies coming at us, because of this huge debt mountain. I don't need a solution here. All I hear is that you're trying to put it together, but that doesn't mean that the blame is any less or no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u43	No, but it's the beginning of the solution. Now it's all loose and scattered. If you can do it among yourselves, you can make a simple calculation. Then you make for an official who has a mandate that is an important addition: he has a mandate that understands what you are to blame, and who can then make a calculation and say: "This is your regular annual profit. I'll do it times five. There's an amount coming out of that. Can you then pay that debt?" If the answer to that is "no" or "no, because it affects my viability, my solvency," then you can decide, when you give that official a mandate,: okay, then we're gonna walk there and we're gonna cancel debts. Hopefully this will happen in conjunction with private parties. Then you help such an entrepreneur. But of course that becomes difficult when it's all spread across different organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you. Then we have now arrived at the maiden speech of Mr Romke de Jong of D66. As usual, there are no interruptions and there is always some room for a personal note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u45	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about support for entrepreneurs. That's why I'm glad I'm allowed to stand here as well as an entrepreneur. For almost 20 years. Because since I was 13, I've been selling ice cream with an ice cream truck from our Frisian family business. A company that has grown from ice sales from my ice bucket bike at my 13th to the international sustainable ice factory that it is today, operating in 12 countries. Mr. Chairman. I have wonderful memories of that. The first time sales or in the evening count all guilders at pake. That is Frisian for grandfather.. on his table. Calling strangers at home to see if you could use the phone because you'd run out of ice and brought some new ones. That was when we all didn't have cell phones. And until two months ago, when I walked into the factory at 7:00 in the morning and then started with an ice cream from the conveyor belt to taste the ice... 'Cause it's our ice cream and it's got to be good. And it was, Mr. Chairman. And then we'll start with that sandwich. But entrepreneurship wasn't just a party. Because you had to get back on that ice-cream bike late in the evening, without battery, without gears and even without a decent brake, so you had to get on those pedals 50 meters in advance; it was dangerously dangerous to clean up until the late hours to get back on the road a day later. And it was hard work, just like my parents taught me. They were catering entrepreneurs and ran a restaurant where we lived with the whole family upstairs for 30 years. A beautiful childhood, in which my parents were always working, seven days a week, but only two steps away from us. And as a 13-year-old I thought that I should focus on ice cream sales and not on the restaurant, because then all you had to do was work in those beautiful summer months. But, Mr. Chairman, I learned the truth in the next 20 years. During my school and study time I was allowed to work on the company to develop it into what it is today, with dozens of colleagues who are just as passionate about ice cream as I was. And just like my parents and many other entrepreneurs: entrepreneur you are 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In this journey of the last twenty years I have often had concerns as an entrepreneur, with the biggest challenge being the start of the corona crisis. I have the wealth of a fiancée, whom I'm going to marry very quickly, and three sons. And when I was reading to my kids at night, my mind was sometimes at the company. Do we keep enough money to pay the suppliers? How do we ensure that our employees keep their jobs? And in the end, Mr. Chairman, we did. But there are many entrepreneurs who still have these concerns at this unprecedented time. I can imagine the kind of care that comes with that. The pain of the vaporized power you've worked for for years. Your pension, your money for later, have to put back into your business and worry about your employees and their families. Because an enterprise isn't just your business, it's your baby, your life's work. An enterprise is more than a number of numbers. It's more, it's something you earn your living with. You are your company; at least that's how it feels every day. And you stand up every day with responsibility for your family and your employees. Fortunately, the corona measures are being relaxed step by step. And the economy is picking up slowly in some sectors. But many entrepreneurs still suffer, such as retail, catering, art and culture and the event sector. As an entrepreneur, I want to help these entrepreneurs here in the Lower House. That is why we are discussing the progress of the support packages, packages that are desperately needed to support our entrepreneurs. There's light coming through those dark clouds. We have supported the economy with billions and fortunately there can be more and more open. D66 considers it important for this support package to breathe with the economy. For the entrepreneurs who need it, the aid will still be accessible. We are also going to see that, because of the relaxations, entrepreneurs no longer need to rely on support. Stopping the package immediately would be too early. The situation has not yet returned to normal in many sectors. They are still closed, partly open and have to work with the one and a half meter control. My group is therefore pleased that the conditions for the third quarter for TVL and NOW remain the same. We are satisfied with longer payment periods for tax debts and the fact that entrepreneurs will have to repay those tax debts later. But, of course, we also have concerns. This Chamber has asked to carry out the TONK generously. It is therefore good to see that the budget has doubled. I see a lot of good examples of municipalities that are responding to this. That is important, because some people have really had to wait a long time for support. However, other municipalities are left behind. That's why I'd like to keep my finger on the wrist. The Minister has provided a useful overview for this. Can the Minister undertake to provide the same kind of overview with the date of 1 July 2021, so that we can monitor that progress? Does he want to continue to encourage municipalities to pursue this generous policy? There are sectors that are still struggling. The event sector is running counter to the delay in the guarantee scheme. We also receive signals that the conditions of the mandatory loan share are difficult for entrepreneurs. Can we look again at the conditions of the guarantee fund and its rapid implementation? Mr. Chairman. The bookshops have also had a hard time. The action #Support Bookshop was heartwarming, but could not prevent the situation from being financially difficult. Book stores are important not only for the many shopping streets, but also for the literature and educational value. Does the cabinet recognise the situation in which the bookshops are located? What could we do in addition for these stores? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. With this package, we support companies who want to continue their dream, including the TOA and WHOA arrangements. At the same time, I can also imagine that there are entrepreneurs who are already considering stopping anyway, who no longer want to be in debt and who now want to continue. But also stopping your business costs money, for example for settling with suppliers. What are the options for helping entrepreneurs through a stopper scheme in a clean way, outside the friendly way? I am considering making a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We've just been talking about Booking.com. The group of D66 also finds it objectionable and shameful, and thinks it is a good idea, as GroenLinks suggests, to call Booking.com to the Chamber here. Twenty years of entrepreneurship and a lot of cycling on an ice bucket bike has taught me that sometimes there can be strong headwind. It is good that the cabinet is doing everything it can to guide entrepreneurs through this difficult time. I look forward to working from the Chamber as an entrepreneur for these entrepreneurs in the coming years, to giving companies perspective and building a sustainable future, including for the next generation. 'Cause I hope one of my three guys will ride that ice-cream bike later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. De Jong, for your lovely maiden speech. A very personal story and then one summer's day it's all about ice cream all the time. That's what makes it so special. Once again, at the end of the first term of the Chamber there is a moment for congratulations to all those who make a maiden speech today. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, who may be interrupted if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u47	I would also like to congratulate Mr De Jong. I happen to be replacing another Mr. De Jong, Leon de Jong, in this debate. Unfortunately, he's sick. Nice speech. It's a nice day for ice cream. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet extends the support package. The PVV feels that this could have lasted a little longer, until the end of the year. Eventually, the packages breathe and if they are no longer needed, they automatically lapse. The economy finally opens slowly again, the terraces are full, the shopping streets are nice and busy again. But we're far from there. Companies need to be given the space to recover. The PVV sees two large bears on the road. The first bear is the huge mountain of debt. Many companies have built up a huge debt over the past year. The aid packages have helped, but in many cases were not enough. Companies have invested on their reserves, deferred the taxes, drawn all the credits they could get, borrowed from family and deferred payment stipulated by landlords and suppliers. In short, the whole of the Netherlands is in red, dark red. 250,000 entrepreneurs owe 16 billion to the Tax Administration. 56,000 companies have borrowed 51 billion from the banks. The question is, how are they ever gonna repay this? The PVV proposes to extend the deferred tax period from five to ten years. That'll give you air. We do not see why recovery interest should slowly be increased to 4%. The government itself can borrow at 0%, and even at negative interest rates. Why should the government earn over the back and the misery of entrepreneurs? As far as we are concerned, that should just be 0.01%. Because the lower the monthly expenses, the greater the chance of survival. We must prevent companies from getting into trouble and still pulling the plug. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second bear: the fixing of subsidies. As I said, we had a technical briefing last Monday. We saw how complex the determination of subsidies is, and how much capacity that requires from the UWV. We got a flowchart. Maybe it's interesting to take that to you. It was very complicated and reminded me of the child care allowance affair. We must, of course, avoid it. We already see that a lot of companies, as many as 63%, have to pay back. Of the 50,000 processed NOW determination applications, no less than 30,000 companies had to pay back. That's 63%. They had to pay $750 million back. One third of the grants are reimbursed in full. Companies that first received generous support will soon receive one warning after another on the mat, from the UWV, from the RVO and from the Tax Administration. I'm not even talking about suppliers and landlords. We must prevent companies from seeing the forest again because of the debt and throwing in the towel. Then everything has been for nothing. Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse what Mr Aartsen said about the window. I think it is a good idea to start one window where companies can go. I also wonder whether there is any point in raising the EUR 500 efficiency limit. The letter stated that the introduction of an efficiency limit of €500 was already 21% in repayments. Suppose we put it at €600, €700 or €800, so slightly higher, then we might be able to avoid a lot of red tape and red tape.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u48	Are you about at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u49	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u50	Not yet. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u51	Mr Van Dijck indicated that companies would have to pay back the NOW or the TVL. He mentioned a number of figures. I can't repeat them. Do you have a problem with companies having to pay back if they are not entitled to the NOW or TVL? We're in a crisis. Together, we try, as the Netherlands, with a piece of solidarity, to help the companies through this. We put extra money into education, care, public transport, and so on. I do not know where Mr Van Dijck wants to go when he lists all these figures and says: companies must repay them. I agree that there will be a proper refund scheme. Does Mr Van Dijck mean to say that companies that did not have a right do not have to pay back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u52	No, of course. Look, especially in the beginning, everyone just applied for that arrangement in the wild. Everyone was in a blind panic. You saw it on the streets. We were dealing with ghost cities and a ghost country. So it's not so weird that a lot of companies have wrongly received subsidies. They'll have to pay them back. There are also companies that are just out of 30%, that used the money and had few reserves. We must prevent these companies from falling over because they are now faced with a refund of €10,000 or €20,000. It's not worth it. Then that whole support operation would have been for nothing. I'd like to avoid that. So I actually want to go back to human size. A lot of companies pay back automatically. This also emerged in the technical briefing. They said we applied for caution, but we didn't need it; here you have it back. I believe 67% of them returned within a week. Of course, that is absolutely right and right. I just want a piece of human size for those companies for which this could just be the drop in the ocean to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u53	I very much agree with that human size. We certainly should not give the people who applied in the first stage, and who may not be entitled to do so, the stamp they took advantage of it, or I know what. No one could see over it. Even the cabinet always said: with 50% of the information making 100% choices. Indeed, the rules of the game are the rules of the game. I agree that we are going to be able to confirm it in due course and that people who have requested it will have ample time to pay it back and that we are just being fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u54	Yes. I see I'm out of time. I'd like to name three more technical little appendages. It is good that the TVL is now excluded from the turnover assessment. As far as we are concerned, that should have happened a long time ago. But why doesn't this happen retroactively up to NOW 1? That's what I'd do. The second point is that the independent entrepreneurs are really getting off very badly, throughout the whole process. We still want the partner test to go away and the conditions for the Tozo loan to be relaxed, with a longer term and lower interest rates. Why do self-employed entrepreneurs have to pay 2% interest on this Tozo loan while others are allowed to pay 0.01%? Finally, the TONK scheme is a big farce. Those towns are doing a lot of work. In Almere you get 1,500, in Assen you get 250. There are several conditions. He'll do an income test. He won't do a power test. I want the minister here to take the lead and apply harsh criteria to the municipalities, so that everyone in every municipality is treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Romke de Jong. He had a beautiful maiden speech. With Mr. Aartsen, who is right behind you, you are a beautiful set. His maiden speech was about selling fries; you were talking about ice cream. I think we can do it together. If it doesn't work out, I'd like to sit down at the table with both of you and I'll get you something to drink. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the contents, because my four minutes are ticking. I used to work a lot in my grandfather's bike shop. We didn't sell baking bikes there. If we had to, we'd deliver them, but they never came to ask. We did sell bikes with side wheels. They used to pick them up a lot. Of course, they were needed to teach a little kid how to ride a bike. One needs them a little longer, the other a little shorter. Either way, you don't take them off at the first few meters. There must be a couple of laps before you can really do that. There is a parallel to the support we are talking about today. Stopping the aid and already putting the side wheels in the drawer is also causing companies to fall. It is therefore very good that the aid should be extended. I'll give you that compliment. I'll let the cabinet take care of it. Mr. Chairman. Some companies still have a firm brake on them. Some are also a little undersupported in the SGP's view. I'm gonna walk by a couple of trouble spots for entrepreneurs. I'll start with the tax debts. The debts of entrepreneurs are now enormous. Colleagues have already referred to it. It's about tax debts, rent debts, debts from suppliers, refunds from the NOW. We often talk about problems in implementation, but let us also pay attention to the implementation of entrepreneurs. I also heard that extensively from Mr Van Aartsen and just now from the PVV. Like the VVD, we had the impression that it would be good to set up one point of contact, one point of contact where all debts come together, so that entrepreneurs have one point of contact and are helped to reduce the debt mountain. I have a motion in preparation, but if Mr Van Aartsen's proposal is awesome, then I would also like to endorse it. So we'll talk about that. If the cabinet itself were to come up with something, that would be very good, as far as we are concerned. But I think we're gonna have to put that trajectory together today. Mr. Chairman. One of the pitfalls is with the branch companies and everything related to it. I've just been interrupting about that, too. These are tens of thousands of jobs with a modal income of people with families who work there and who owe their lives to it. The local shopping streets in Emmen, Ermelo and Middelburg and in many other places are under pressure. I have drawn a lot of attention to this recently and I have been told for a very long time that it was heading in the right direction, but at the bottom of the line nothing has been arranged. My question to the cabinet is: why has the consultation collapsed and why has nothing been arranged at all? Mr. Chairman. Recently, I filed a motion to support group accommodations. My question is whether the discussion with this sector has taken place and how this sector is supported in further opening up. Mr. Chairman. The settlement of the NOW has a lot of feet in the earth. It is nice that the TVL support no longer counts as revenue for the NOW. The six proposals for reducing administrative burdens also reduce the burden considerably. I understand that implementation organisations have made many more proposals for burden relief. My question is: can the Minister give an overview of all the proposals put forward by organisations, with the arguments why these proposals have not been included? As far as I am concerned, this can of course be done in writing after the debate. However, I would like to be promised that this overview will come to us. Mr. Chairman. Many entrepreneurs do not yet see the future brightly. I am thinking, for example, of the coach industry, which, due to seasonal influences, is only expected to return to sales next year. I am also thinking of travel organisations which are in great uncertainty and have hardly made any turnover, or of those who are difficult to claim the TVL and for which the TONK is not working properly because of the strict conditions. There are many more examples, but that does not fit in with time. My question is: have we not reached a point where targeted tailor-made work is needed and should be possible? I'd like to get a reaction to that. (NL) Mr President, all in all. Whatever the future brings, we don't know. That's a good thing. However, we must be prepared for a fourth quarter in which tailor-made work is urgently needed, so that we can only support those entrepreneurs who really need it. My question is: does the Minister see it that way? What steps does the Minister take to move four from generic aid to specific aid from quarter to quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr President, I thought I would try this microphone once too. My question to the SGP concerns the question asked by Mr Stoffer to the cabinet about the debt route. We are concerned about that, too. I would like to know from Mr Stoffer whether he sees market debt forgiveness as an important part of the conversations to deliver customization. Risks are therefore not only taken by the public authorities, but also, in part, by market players, where there are debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u59	Look, let me say, my first move is always: if you have debt, whether you have it with the government or with market players, you have to pay it off. But, of course, we're in a specific situation. It is very important that both the government and the market look at how we are going to offer perspective for companies, but above all also for the underlying jobs, and for keeping the Netherlands on track. There's more than just money. Last night I spoke here about the economy of joy. The point is that we will have another kind of economy of joy and say: we can go on with each other. So my answer is: yes, but not just like that. The first principle must be that debts are paid off. If that is not reasonable or not possible, both the market and the government must play a role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u61	Mr. Chairman. After Mr. De Jong's beautiful maiden speech the following. As an expert in experience, I know that membership and ice cream go hand in hand. That brings a bit of life's happiness. Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that the best way to secure living and having bread on the shelf is in a fair economy, with solidarity, reciprocity and own initiative as starting points. In this fair economy, solidarity is the most important way out of this crisis. Solidarity is not self-evident. This also turned out last week, when it became known that Booking.com, despite corona support, will spend millions of euros on equity bonuses. This is morally reprehensible, especially at this time, in this moment. Take for comparison a family business like Auping. Auping returned the money it was entitled to, but it didn't need it afterwards. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet extends the support package and allocates around EUR 6 billion for this purpose. That's good. It is necessary and can count on the support of the CDA. At the same time, today, the CDA also wants to promote greater mutual solidarity by calling for a temporary solidarity levy for those companies which have made extra profits in the corona crisis. This will enable us to finance recovery measures for the hardest affected SMEs and help these entrepreneurs make a start. This fits in with a fair economy, where the strongest shoulders bear the toughest burdens and help each other large and small. We ask for a reaction from the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u62	There are two interruptions right away, and you're just getting started. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA and then Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u63	For a moment I thought Mr Amhaouch was reading out the election programme of the Labour Party. It sounds good: solidarity, solving the crisis together and also some questions to all those entrepreneurs who have made money from the corona crisis. There you will surely find the Labour Party by your side. Very good. I made a point in my speech about the supermarkets in particular, and about the miniatures. There are companies that are now asking their employees to make up for the minutes they have received because of the lockdown, for free, because that is collective agreement-related. Now we have previously asked questions to the Minister about this, but we would very much like, also with the CDA, to call on the Cabinet to meet those staff who now have to work overtime for free from the political point of view. They're Wibra employees, security guards at Schiphol. Can I also find Mr Amhaouch on our side in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u64	I really didn't read the PvdA's election program. At least I haven't read that now. In the campaign time, I did read that program. There I read that the PvdA had invented some 43 billion in burdens for business. However, I think we can find each other on the issue of the fair economy. At that point, I think we can reach out to each other. I think Mr Van Dijk's other point is a little more complex, apart from the technique involved. Here too, solidarity is important, between employers and employees. I also know a lot of people who have something to do with this in the catering industry. In the beginning it was all closed and the staff got all kinds of chores to do. They were going to do all kinds of things, but at some point they were just sitting at home. If it goes in good agreement, I can imagine an employer saying at some point: we are having a hard time and people may need to take a step further to get out of that crisis. I don't think it's a problem if that's said, unless there's technically all kinds of other things bubbling up. So at this time, it is precisely solidarity between employers and employees that is needed, and we should not just look at the rules. I think that is much more important than we are now getting out of line by saying that the extra hours we have to spend now have to be paid as overtime. I would also very much like to let that be something that we leave to employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u65	Exactly, but this isn't about overtime, it's about hours you made because you were home because of the lockdown. But the point is: I think we both want to ask something from companies that made a lot of profit during the corona crisis. We are looking, in particular, at the supermarkets. I think we can agree with each other with a levy. Let us then begin by calling on these supermarkets to conclude a proper collective agreement, to begin with. There is still a collective agreement dispute there and the employees still do not get a share of what they are entitled to. So I'd like to try it through the political route as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u66	I have just made a proposal on this additional levy. The supermarkets are now a bit at the centre of the picture, but we are just talking about the companies that made extra profits in that crisis. We need to figure it out together. I have just said during the interruption that we had to allocate extra billions to education, care, support measures, libraries and so on. Let us therefore make sure that we pay a little extra together, so that we can get out of this crisis quickly. Because we need to invest quickly in the future of our generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u68	However, I would like to point out one more point, Mr President, which I do not fully agree with Mr Van Dijk. The CDA is very reluctant to enter into collective agreements between employers and employees. We do not want the Lower House to sit on those seats of the employer and the employee. There the CDA is very reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u69	I had just obtained from the election programme, with an extreme burden increase of 43 billion, when I saw in the newspaper this morning that the CDA is proposing to impose an additional tax on SMEs above €235,000. I don't have it in my account, but that's not an extreme amount for profits that entrepreneurs make. I know Mr Amhaouch as someone who, for example, fights for the manufacturing industry. The manufacturing industry has not taken extreme advantage of the corona situation, nor has it suffered excessive damage due to the corona. Can Mr Amhaouch explain to me why he thinks, why the CDA thinks that we should make entrepreneurs, SMEs in the manufacturing industry pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u70	Let's get a level of "upchunk" first. Let's go up to a level. Let us see if we can get Mr Aartsen for the basic idea at all that it is fair to expect something extra from entrepreneurs in a crisis. It doesn't matter which entrepreneur it is and what the color of his shirt is. I would therefore like to ask the counter-question whether, in a crisis, we can expect something extra from entrepreneurs. After that, of course, you always have the technical execution. At the Vpb we do have two rates, namely 15% and 16.5%, depending on what year you are looking at, and on the other hand the higher rate of 25%. Our appeal to the cabinet is also: go and see where you can get some extra profit from those companies fairly, to do this job together. So the question I am asking back is whether the VVD agrees with the direction of solidarity. Can we expect anything from these companies? And the second, the technique and the implementation, we can always talk about, and I think the cabinet can help us with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u71	That first question isn't that difficult. We have already arranged this in the Netherlands. If you make more sales, you pay more sales tax. If you make more profit, you pay more income tax. If you employ more people, you pay more payroll taxes. I think we've all arranged that neatly with each other. But here's what scares me. We are in the midst of a major economic crisis, where it is important that SMEs invest. Among other things, those companies in the manufacturing industry say, "You know what? We're gonna have a corporate drink for the people who worked so hard. That's good for the catering entrepreneur. That money stays in the economy."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u72	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u73	The CDA then comes up with a proposal to tax those companies which have not benefited from corona at all. I find that special, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u74	We're not going to tax companies if that's unfair. We are going for an even, fair playing field. The VVD makes that a caricature. I am indeed in favour of the manufacturing industry, but we have this job to do together. I just mentioned Auping as an example. That was entitled to the NOW funds and even returned them. There are shopkeepers or supermarkets that have made bigger profits. Of course, they may ask afterwards: should we then do so? Yes, that's solidarity in a fair economy. I hope that the VVD can go with us at the main point; then we can talk about the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u75	No, we are a serious Chamber here and we are making serious proposals here. It's nice that the CDA calls something in the newspaper, but then it also has to deliver butter to the fish. It just can't be that you say "supermarkets have to pay more," and then when it becomes difficult "those manufacturing companies don't have to pay anymore." That's not how it works in our system. Make a good proposal, I'd say. But with the proposal you're making, you're taking down smaller SMEs, who just turned out fine and didn't do anything spectacular. That's what I find unfair in this time of corona. Don't do that or come up with a decent proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u76	Our proposal is very decent. We're asking you to work out all kinds of scenarios. We don't have to make it more complicated than it is. We have a free system with Vpb, profit tax. In it you can critically consider how you could realize this. In the end, we will have to have political majorities again. I do want to know where the VVD is in this fair economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u77	Thank you. The last question again from Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u78	I share Mr Amhaouch's plea for a solidarity economy. From the group of DENK there is also a lot of indignation about entrepreneurial companies that greatly enrich themselves during the corona crisis: the Booking.coms of this world, but also others. That is when we read in the newspaper Mr Amhaouch's proposal to introduce a solidarity levy. We at DENK are very much in favour of that. But I read the message in the newspaper and thought to myself a little bit: where have I seen it before? It was Mr Azarkan who argued that a year ago during the Corona debates. In April of last year, a motion was put to the vote in the Chamber asking the government precisely for a solidarity levy to ask for some extras from companies that enrich themselves in corona time. What was my surprise? The CDA was against it at the time. But even then, companies were enriching themselves. I wonder: what happened to the CDA at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u79	I am pleased that DENK also supports this initiative, or at least this way of thinking. I think a lot of Dutch people and a lot of entrepreneurs support this. But the momentum is always important, I give Mr Van Baarle. We're coming out of a crisis. We entered the corona crisis in 2020. It was also said: no one knew what was going to happen. Then you can come up with a certain proposal at that point, while we are managing the crisis. I think it's the momentum now, too. If Mr Azarkan has made that proposal, it can still be a good proposal, but now it is the moment: how are we going to get out of this crisis, how are we going to fix it and how are we going to make the Netherlands a little bit financially healthy again? It is good that Mr Van Baarle supports this direction. Let's not take each other a bit the size, like: Pietje said it or Farid said it. I think now is the time to take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u80	Mr Azarkan, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u81	Yes, Mr. Azarkan. I shouldn't have said Farid. You can say Ali, Fatima, Ingrid, Henk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u82	At least DENK. Mr De Jong of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u83	It's a beautiful, progressive point the CDA brings in. You can also see a higher Vpb in many more election programs. I read it in the newspaper this morning and I thought: Mr Amhaouch is now putting forward a proposal to actually do it. But what I hear you say now is that you want an investigation. My question to you is then: do you want to do it and come up with a proposal, or do you just want to see if we can do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u84	We want to do it; we want to do it. The Chamber is about what and the Cabinet is about how. We will also come forward with a motion to investigate what scenarios there are. If the cabinet comes up with some scenarios, then we can choose which one is best. That's why we're here. So that proposal is going to come and I am very curious whether there is political support for it. Solidarity, the economy... Mr De Jong says: that is a progressive point. I think we should all make this point. When you think about Rhineland: in a crisis, you say "that's what we're going for." It is a temporary levy and that is what we are going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u85	You will find my party by your side when it comes to a higher Vpb rate. That's what you've been able to read in our program. I hear you again saying that you are coming up with a proposal to investigate. If you hear support from several parties, come forward today with a proposal to do it. Then drop the investigation and come with it. We want to work on this economy of the future, and you want to work on it now. Let's cut that right off today. To stay in the commercial terms that I hear everyone use: equal butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u86	I hope we can cut this off next Tuesday with the motion we are going to bring in. That'd be great. We'll tap it right out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u87	I welcome this proposal from the CDA. I won't say "why didn't you suggest that before?', But I'd really like to hear how the CDA wants to do that concretely. I can imagine that in the forthcoming Tax Plan we will at least increase the Vpb to 36% for a year. That would be a proposal supported by the SP. But at least I would like to hear a percentage from the CDA and also a time when that percentage should be introduced. I would very much like to make that proposal with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u88	We have talked about a temporary levy. I know that, especially in left-wing election programmes for business, the billions accumulate. That is not the direction we want to take. We do want to take a serious look at the Vpb. You have a low rate and a high rate. It's also the question of what we need. What is our real view of this system, through this solidarity levy, to be collected? What are we gonna pick up somewhere else? It is too short for me to say now: we are going to do 36%; we are going to go from 25% to 36%. You do not want to do that either, because then we in this Chamber will again be accused of having made legislation or rules that are not enforceable and which we do not know where they lead. Therefore, let the cabinet submit the how-question, the scenarios to us. I'm hearing excited noises today. Then we can tap one of those scenarios together. Eventually, we have to go back and upchunk again. It is a question of whether we are prepared to join forces in this crisis and temporarily do that solidarity levy, so that we can also help the healthy companies that Mr Aartsen is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u89	Mr Van Kent, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u90	I'm still looking for what the CDA wants right now. An investigation is interesting, but if you want something, it's more interesting to make a proposal that shows what you want. It is good to make a concrete proposal which we can discuss here and which we can say: good idea, that we will support. An investigation can of course always be possible, but I would like to ask the CDA what exactly it wants and what it is actually proposing here. So not research, but a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u91	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u92	And then the what and the question of whether it's feasible. In the Tax Plan you can agree on a different tax rate once, even for one year. So it's executable and it's possible. I would therefore like to hear from the CDA what tax rate it will be. How high is that going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u93	Mr Van Kent says: make it concrete; do you want 36%? That's what I like about cow business. Should it be 36%, or 27%, or more? I do not think that is the way to find decent solutions to a social problem that we have. Let's take a serious look at that. And that we, as CDA, use the nuance. I think sometimes that's a bit of a differentiation factor in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u94	No, Mr. Van Kent, everyone has four questions or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u95	Mr Van Kent is right. You mentioned in the newspaper this morning the amount of €235,000. You were swirling around it first, and now you're saying, no, there's gonna be a proposal. I'm standing here on behalf of those entrepreneurs. I am standing here on behalf of those SMEs, those small entrepreneurs who are perhaps a little above that, who have had nothing to do with corona. Are they going to pay more taxes at the CDA or not when they get up there? And what year is that for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u96	Mr Aartsen is not only standing here for SMEs. I believe that all the people here are in the room for SMEs. We are all coming out of a crisis in which precisely SMEs have been in need of help. We have allocated billions to help these SMEs, especially in sectors such as the catering and retail sectors. I don't know where Mr. Aartsen is going with this. We're just gonna ask for something reasonable right now. We want to see if we can raise the rate for companies that make extra profits. It is therefore not an SME that makes no profit or makes normal profits. Mr Aartsen wanted it to be more specific: we have two rates, low and high rates; you can look at them to determine what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u97	No, no. I'm going to Mrs Maatoug of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u98	Welcome to the club, CDA, I say with the colleagues of D66. To quote Mr Hoekstra: let's move on now. I hear a very good plan. There are some specific questions. I am very happy to help, on behalf of GroenLinks, to concreteise things, so that we can put the question very concretely with the cabinet. So a hand out to make the plan a little more concrete. Do you receive it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u99	I think we've just outlined the contours. We will also come up with a concrete proposal in the direction of the cabinet. We're gonna figure that out in the short term, and then we're gonna be able to tap it, or we're gonna hit it, or we're gonna hit it, as Mr Van Kent says, and we're gonna go through with it. But if there are concrete measures, then I also expect the support of the parties who want to do so, so that we can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u100	Am I to understand that this is with the intention of settling it with the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u101	If that's possible, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u102	Were you at the end of your speech? No, you were actually just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u103	I was just getting started. No, the temperature's good now. Mr President, I shall continue. It is good to see that people find their way back to the terraces, the shops and the day attractions. Those companies have had to take the hardest hits from the crisis. They look forward to the final end of the restrictive measures. At the same time, an old problem now seems to arise: a screaming shortage of staff. How can the cabinet help entrepreneurs to tackle this problem in order to prevent companies that are allowed to open from coming out of the starting blocks? How does the additional "social package" and "NL learn through" vouchers play a concrete role in this? Mr. Chairman. Following on from the support package, a number of bottlenecks are resolved, such as the interaction between the NOW and the TVL turnover is no longer included, but we still have a few left that I would like to mention briefly. That there is no sustainable and viable solution for border entrepreneurs, the CDA is hard on the stomach. Seven of the twelve provinces border on Germany and Belgium. There are also people and entrepreneurs living there. We want a response from the Minister. There is a motion-Amhaouch c.s. adopted on harrowing cases and special situations. The cabinet has explained that it wants to take it with you as a framework of action for the RVO for the TVL at the moment you are dead, sick or have had a fire. Yeah, but those are situations that hardly ever happen. The intention of the Chamber has always been that company acquisitions or companies with an administrative act, companies that have been in existence for decades, should be carried out with staff. I see rejections now. The RVO does a good job, but at some point it checks the framework of action and if it is not dead, fire or disease, that is not the case. So there's customization. We are very pleased with that, but we would like to have the framework of action extended, as the Chamber intended. We ask for a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, Social Affairs Ministers presented proposals to reduce the administrative burden of the NOW. However, due to the extended third party statement required, the administrative burden of the NOW remains high, especially compared to the TVL. So we also ask the cabinet why the third party statement is needed at the NOW, while the TVL does not. Can't we go there and make that harmonisation move? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll lock up. Something has already been said about the branch companies. That's important to our shopping streets. We'd like to know from the minister how he sees the size. We do want those jobs. They're very important. We don't want all these companies to fall over. How can we help these companies if we really need to? Then I would like a reflection from the Minister on the comment contained in the letter. Finally, we are very pleased with the coulant payment scheme of the Tax Administration. I think that is the most important aid measure for the companies that are now coming out of the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u105	A question about the social employment services. I think we could find each other there, too. Social work is having a hard time this year, also because of corona, because certain work is still going on. We are also dealing with a special target group. The cabinet has not yet allocated any money for this. Can I find the CDA on our side to make that call? This year, too, the sw needs money to continue this important work in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u106	I do not know exactly how to place this, but I have made the point in my contribution that there are a lot of companies that are understaffed. For example, people have gone to the GD and a lot has shifted. In fact, wherever you look now, mostly when you look at shops or the catering industry, you see the sign "we're looking for staff." So my approach would be, after Mr Van Dijk's question and following the question I asked the Minister: how can we match better? If there are social work companies that are having a hard time because they do not have a job, I find that very strange in a situation where there is a shortage of labour. So let's see how we can put certain things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u107	Thank you. I can also see that Mr Stoffer wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u108	I read a newspaper this morning saying that the CDA doesn't want a left-hand block, but now that I just heard all of this, I looked in another newspaper and I thought: there will be left-wing proposals. Anyway, that aside. That's not what my question is about. I was glad that Mr Amhaouch also spoke about the branch companies. He has also spoken very warmly about this in previous debates. But I have to say that I thought: now it comes; he's going to say "kabinet, come on, there's just got to be an arrangement." We have here a letter in which two regulations are drawn up on page 16. You can do all that. I had read that too and I saw a few ifs and buts, but in the end it said: we choose one of those two arrangements. But what is my surprise? It says on page 17 all of a sudden: everything the cabinet overlooks chooses not to introduce any additional regulation for the large business. Well, it's already the term; it's about affiliates. But does Mr Amhaouch agree with me that if it is necessary a little, just... Those stores have been closed for nineteen weeks. Things are about to go wrong, especially in those areas where the CDA, if they stay a little bit on the right, is still big and hopefully will stay. I would ask Mr Amhaouch to make an arrangement. You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u109	Mr Stoffer is, in my view, the youngest of the SGP Group, i.e. the upcoming man for the future, i.e. the new generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u110	For now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u111	But he's still stuck in that left-right thinking, yeah, that's really old-fashioned politics. Because the CDA has already made two steps forward, thinking in four quadrants: you can go left, right, and up and down. So depending on the theme on which we act, we will move into one of those quadrants. And here we are indeed talking about the fair economy. Then, coming back. I really do feel sorry for those family businesses, indeed those branch companies that Mr Stoffer is talking about. We've had a lot of contacts with that, too. And that has actually been the discussion of: are we going to a sector-specific arrangement or do the current arrangements have enough room for manoeuvre? We have the NOW, and they can use it. The TVL has been raised to 1,2 and I think that the limit of that European state aid is on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I would also like to know from the cabinet the extent of the problem. What I do not think we should have, and I think everyone agrees on this, is that we will have thousands of people on the streets at the end of the corona crisis. I agree with that, but whether we should have these specific sectoral arrangements or that the current arrangements are sufficient, I would like to have a reflection from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u112	It's enough. Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u113	Now we've earned an ice cream.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u114	Actually, I do. I hope we have a lunch break around 1:00. I give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. It's her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u115	And then suddenly there was corona, Mr. Chairman. The biggest crisis I've ever had in my life. The debate we are having today is about the bridge we built, the cabinet built, the canyon, the bridge they built when we didn't know how wide the canyon would be or how deep the canyon would be. I think today's debate is about how we're going to cut down that bridge after hopefully crossing the border, after which we can sit on a terrace with the D66 colleague's ice creams in the sun, looking back at how we've covered this period. With the dismantling of that bridge and that support, a very important question is how we have divided the risks over that period and how we are going to do that in the coming period. That's a question that's very personal to me. It's personal, because it's the essence for me that I'm standing here, which is: I didn't go into politics to tell my own story and just be in the spotlight, but to make collective choices and share risks with others, in such a way that we come to a situation that is better for ourselves individually but also for all of us. That's the core of what drives me as a human being. It's the core of what I think politics should be. It is at the heart of what makes us as human beings very different, namely compassion and understanding that the interest of the other can also be our own interest. Mr. Chairman. From that question I am going to look at the debate and the letter we have received. I understand I'm not going to be interrupted. I'm going to enjoy that for a while, because from next time, it won't be. We'll start at the bridge and where we are right now, so let's take a look at the situation here. A number of questions have already been asked by colleagues, on the NOW and recoveries. So I'll leave it, but I'm curious about the answers. I would like to ask a specific question aboutzzp'ers and flex workers and about the TONK scheme. I'm talking about a bridge all the time. That sounds very firm, but actually we're talking about some kind of lane path, some kind of rope. It is only a question of whether people can bridge that canyon, because a lot of people are standing there waiting and crying "help, help, help," while we collectively said that no people should fall between shore and ship. I have a few questions for Minister Koolmees aboutzzp'ers and flexworkers. We've been given a very clear list. There are a few municipalities that do it moderately. They don't have it very spacious. You're a missionary now. I would like to ask you whether you can promise that you will just visit all these municipalities. So not just to write a collective letter, but for example to look at the examples in Sittard or elsewhere and to say: hey, let's broaden those arrangements a little bit. That's my question. I do not want to wait a few more weeks and we still see that there are great differences. The second question aboutzzp is: why don't we make it an open-ended arrangement? I can imagine what the Minister of Finance is going to say: yes, no, but that is so big and budgetaryly difficult. But the government's argument is that it is not a budgetary problem, because there is enough money. So the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance thinks that there is only fear that there is not enough money, so let us do it symbolically and say: there is an open-ended arrangement. Then nothing goes wrong. This simply means that there is no longer a brake on municipalities and that these arrangements are becoming more extensive. And if it is a budgetary problem, then perhaps we have a financial problem. Then I would like to explain this. Then the last question aboutzzp. We see that a number of aid schemes have been extended until 30 September, but the flexibility of the hourly criterion forzzp'ers has not been extended. I think that's a little illogical. Support is still needed in the cultural sector and in a number of other sectors. So GroenLinks is also asking for the flexibility of the hour criterion to be extended until 1 October. Then we'll take down the bridge, because it's gonna stop after the third quarter. My question to the Minister for Finance is: what exactly is the stopping strategy? I'm very curious about that. I'd like to hear more about that. In the letter and in the CPB documents, the GroenLinks Group reads that the government likes to see some adjustment mechanisms in the economy. People are gonna offer up again, they're people who might be in welfare right now, so we're gonna flourish again. We are extremely concerned about a specific group of young people. As is often the case in a crisis, the number of young people in assistance is increasing. We also see that these young people find it extremely difficult to take up jobs in this adaptation and recovery phase, because they no longer have a roof over their heads, for example, because they have a cost-sharing standard and have their parents' assistance; taking a job means that you have no home and cannot get a home. That is why I ask the cabinet, in the context of recovery, to give the municipalities the room to put the cost-sharing standard out of order until the end of the year, so that we can achieve the recovery. I am not going to anticipate a structural discussion on this for young people and they can take up the jobs, as we all want in the context of recovery. Then the BIK. I couldn't resist. I've had so much fun with my colleague Snels. I am so glad that you have all come to the understanding here that it may not have been a very good measure after all. Also from GroenLinks compliments for the missionary cabinet, because we actually like that new destination. Reduce the WW premiums for all businesses, SMEs, and I also look at Mr Aartsen. Top, very good plan! We do have a suggestion that we're still working out. I have a few questions about it. We are now seeing that this is going to happen all over Awf and we are considering an amendment to this, because we would love it very much if we did the premium for fixed contracts to zero, that we could say to entrepreneurs, SMEs, the baker on the corner: hire people in permanent employment and then you would not pay a WW premium for that at all. I can imagine the Minister or the Cabinet saying: Mrs Maatoug, but that would require a change of law. We are prepared to make an amendment to it. We also understand from the salary administration that it is actually the same thing in the systems as in what the cabinet envisages. So I'd like to hear more about that and I'm especially curious about what the premiums would be. Then very briefly the economic situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. It's not sketched at all. Can the Minister of Finance explain something about this so that we can also assess that support? Finally, a personal note. I have enjoyed all my colleagues' maiden speeches greatly over the past period. I have also requested the maiden speeches of the gentlemen in box K via the Central Information Point and also those of the colleagues in front of me. It was really enjoyable, but it was also a great contrast to the farewell interviews I read from a lot of colleagues who left the Chamber during the past period, colleagues who look back and reflect on this subject. I have a request for my colleagues. I intend to remember at the beginning of my political career why I am here: to build bridges with everyone else, to make monuments that will still be there in a hundred years. Because I think it's important to be kept to that and because I myself believe in writing very old cabbage in things, in notes, in memories, in beautiful stories of people, I have, on behalf of me and GroenLinks, a notebook for all my new colleagues in which they can write down their dreams, their memories and their reflections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u116	Wow, very nice. I also congratulate you on your maiden speech. And what a drive! We're going to see a lot of that in the coming period, I hope. Once again, at the end there is the opportunity for congratulations. There's gonna be another maiden speech. And it's definitely enjoyment, all those maiden speeches. I'm glad you looked back, too. I'm gonna do that sometime. I call Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u117	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to colleagues De Jong and Maatoug. A nice picture too, building a bridge over a ravine. My predecessor, Eppo Bruins, started a previous debate on the image of ships that are at risk of stranded in view of the port in this crisis and that we must avoid it. He expressed that hope. With the new support package, the cabinet responds to this call. The question, of course, is: is it enough for all seaworthy ships? Do they achieve all the safe haven in the current, fortunately weakened corona storm? That brings me to my first point of attention: poignant cases. After all, there is no generic measure, or there is an entrepreneur who is just outside while the crisis has hit him or her hard. For example, the start-up catering entrepreneur who was not supported for months because of the chosen reference periods. Or the outpatient tailor who from his sewing workshop in his own home provides residents of nursing homes with clothes but has no work address and is therefore not helped. Or the women in prostitution who, because of opting-in, can only fall back on the so-called TONK. I also agree with the questions put by colleagues on the TONK. The cabinet always warns that customization is not possible. This notion of customisation is a thick line under the importance of hardness clauses, discretionary powers and an open attitude for distressing cases. Are there any contacts or perhaps teams at the implementation organisations where you can go as an entrepreneur and look at your case with a benevolent, human eye? Take the example of those self-employed outpatient tailors who no longer entered the nursing and nursing homes closed by the government, but fell out and fell out everywhere. Are they getting enough help now? I certainly do not get the impression, when it comes to these groups. Entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, people with flex contracts: many of them saw their savings evaporate like snow for the sun. Many had to deal with debt problems. My group has already called for a guarantee fund to take over debts. For this, money has already been allocated by the cabinet. Trade unions and employers also insist on such a fund. How's the effect coming? Is this fund almost operational yet? How is the Minister going to use this, even now? The cabinet doesn't want tax debts to be dismissed generically. I understand that, but if you pay off a student debt in terms of carrying capacity and you still have a residual debt after 15 or 35 years, then the government goes to remission. Isn't that conceivable in the case of tax debts? Or does the cabinet also mean that with the passage on debt restructuring on page 30 of the aid package letter? Then kids. Young people are at risk of becoming the child of the corona account. Think of the handicapped school and study time. Think also of the complex labour and housing market. That is why I am once again calling on trade unions and employers to set up a national training and retraining programme for young people. My question to the Ministers is: what are they looking at? At the same time, I hear from companies that were previously relatively easy to attract young people that they are now struggling to bind young people. Last Monday I was with colleague Valstar of the VVD at FloraHolland in Naaldwijk. There they also found that they have plenty of work, but that it is very difficult to bind young people back to them. Mr. Chairman. It sounded in all sorts of keys today. What a sad sham it is: the bonus for the top man of Air France-KLM, the millions of bonuses for the top of Booking.com. On the other hand, the story of the Dutch family company Auping is that the unneeded NOW aid has returned. When the dividend tax had to be abolished if necessary, Unilever's top man was under the speed dial. After this debate, can the Minister simply pick up the phone and make an appeal to Booking.com to repay the aid received to the Dutch taxpayer? In relation to this, I have one more question. More than a year ago, the Segers motion on responsible management was adopted as a condition for future public support during and outside crisis time. My final question in this term is: how does the cabinet implement this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u118	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u119	Thank you, Mr President. My congratulations to Mrs Maatoug for the beautiful story, and also to Romke de Jong. Thanks for the gift, too. We will accept that. They are indeed inspiring stories. Mr. Chairman. We're actually at a tipping point right now. Are we going to extend or terminate emergency aid? That is a difficult path, yet hopeful. We're glad the country's reopening. That's what we're going to find out. For entrepreneurs it is a solution if money can be made again. It's a difficult journey, because you never really do it right. On the one hand, you cannot continue to build up debts, on the other hand, several speakers have said it. I am curious to see how the ministers see it, but I found CPB Director Pieter Hasekamp's remark somewhat alarming. He literally said two months ago: "The longer the aid lasts, the less the economic benefits and the greater the costs. The aid freezes parts of the economy and thus blocks normal economic dynamics." There are economists, I say, who are a little more nuanced in that, but his message is clear: the infusion must be removed. What is the Minister's view of the analysis that the extension of emergency aid can be counterproductive? Mr. Chairman. We see a total of EUR 60 billion in tax debt, over 250,000 companies together, built up in the crisis. We do not think that the generic renunciation of this is an option. So it's gonna have to be customized. Minister Hoekstra has already indicated this himself. Many companies have already repaid their debts. We also believe that not all companies with tax debts are in need. It is, of course, very important to see which companies really need this support. In the end, it's customization. The differences are extreme. Look at the supermarkets and the call shops. This morning I read that Zoom Video turned 400% more sales. Booking has also been mentioned here. These are huge profits, while clothing stores have an average debt of €91,000. For a shoe store, that's over a ton. So, I ask the cabinet, do we have a view of the branches and sectors in which the bank's debts have risen so high that repayment is becoming increasingly difficult and perhaps even unlikely? Are there scenarios for that? Or are we going to see these entrepreneurs go down in the bushes after all? Is there also an estimate of what it sounds like ugly "the suspended death of companies"? Then I mean companies that we're trying to help anyway, but where it's more ventilation than real recovery, healing. We want to eventually bring them back to normal market conditions, as Mr. Romke de Jong so beautifully said about the ice factory. There is work with heart and soul, but there is also future music in it. Then there is the issue of fraud. I don't think that's been mentioned yet. Fraud is lurking. Is the cabinet aware of that? Implementing agency RVO, which pays out the TVL, said there were 1,133 fraudulent applications out of a total of over 240,000. Of course, you say that every fraud case is one too many, but it seems pretty small. If you calculate it, it's a percentage of 0.0047%. Is that reassuring? Or do we just know very little about the sight of fraud with the TVL? Does the Minister have any idea what the consequences might be? How can entrepreneurs and perhaps the government reduce these risks? 'Cause of course you'd like to sit on that. Is there a road map for that to be made, so that entrepreneurs can safely sail along those support ravines? Mr. Chairman. My final question was about the debt counter and the payment system. It's already in place. I think we, as JA21, can very well agree with the proposal of either VVD or SGP, but we think it would be useful to create a single payment facility and a one-stop shop. Entrepreneurs are asking for this too. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of JA21, I wish everyone a good debate. We look forward to the answers of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u120	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK. And it's also his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u121	Thank you, Mr President. As a little Rotterdammertje, and I'm afraid you know that a little bit from me I grew up in Rotterdam-Zuid. I hate the word, but my neighborhood was sometimes called a "backward neighborhood." When I was growing up, I saw what growing up in such a disadvantaged neighborhood means in practice. Boyfriends or girlfriends at school who didn't have the money to go on a school trip or buy some food in the cafeteria. I actually didn't believe my eyes as a little Rotterdammertje. Can this be done in a country like the Netherlands? Later, after the terrible attacks on the Twin Towers, I saw how the climate in the Netherlands changed, how classmates of mine were suddenly suspected or excluded on the basis of their religion or origin. Friends of mine who are Muslims had to hear it almost daily: distance; do you support terrorists? Separation lines were drawn straight through the classroom. I found it unjust how friends and friends of mine from one day to the next were seen as "the other." Later, when I went to sociology, I discovered that we can actually fill this Chamber with investigations that show that your origin, your income, your orientation, your belief, your gender and your skin color still determine how much chance you have in this country. It scared me as a young student in Rotterdam. Is this my Netherlands, I wondered. That has contributed to my decision to go into politics, to fight for equal opportunities for all those Dutch. And that's a long fight. Emancipation is a matter of perseverance. But together with my group, I am perfectly motivated to fight here in this Chamber, in the place where it matters, inches by inches for those equal rights and opportunities for all Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. That battle is even more important in times of crisis. It is good that we in the Netherlands are in a difficult time of solidarity and that the support package for the people affected by corona is continued until October. Many entrepreneurs are still in a very poignant situation after a month of lockdown. The catering industry, the travel sector, shops, taxi drivers; the water is on their lips. Those people just need the backup. But DENK also believes that there should be support for these people after October. We can't leave them to their fate after October. I would like a response from the cabinet to the question of what the expectations are. Are there any scenarios for what will happen after October? In addition to entrepreneurs who are on the ground and are rightly supported, there are entrepreneurs and companies who abuse our solidarity. Companies such as Booking.com, which receive millions of tax money but then that Dutch taxpayers' money in the form of bonuses pay out to their drivers and at the same time fire people. This is indecent, incomprehensible, unethical and just plain antisocial. You bastard! I therefore call on the government to do everything in its power to get back this tax money that has disappeared in the pockets of vultures in chalk-line suits. And should we not introduce a tax to discourage this kind of graying? I refer to a tax on exorbitant profits or bonuses, as we had in the previous crisis a crisis measure on gray salaries. Mr. Chairman. Our badly affected entrepreneurs will have to pay taxes again in the cabinet's plans from 1 July. DENK is not in favour of this. Because banks are lining up to reclaim loans, and suppliers, insurers and landlords are going to claim their money. Next year, entrepreneurs will also have to pay back taxes and government loans. My sincere question to the cabinet is: are all these entrepreneurs going to be able to pay taxes from 1 July? DENK believes that this should be done later and therefore supports the proposal made by the VVD. Some sectors are in very bad shape. The catering industry and the taxi industry will take years to pay off their debts. And that can only happen if they sometimes spend even 50% of their profits on paying off their debts. My question to the cabinet is: can we really not set up specific support measures for those groups, which we know are really struggling, such as taxi drivers? Can we not simply abolish that partner test in the Tozo, which means that a lot of people with far too low incomes have to live in crisis times? Shouldn't we consider the ultimate remedium remission of taxes for groups that really don't like it? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. I started my contribution with equality of opportunity as a driving force. The CBS has found that the corona crisis has led young people and people with a migration background to receive assistance more than other groups. DENK will never allow the inequality between groups of people to increase again in this crisis. My question to the government is therefore: what is the government going to do to ensure that, in crisis time, inequality between groups of people in the Netherlands does not increase further? How do we deal with people who are really in need, who are no longer able to pay their fixed costs? How are we going to ensure that the TONK measure, which through the implementation of municipalities does not reach the people who need it, finally reaches the people in need? Mr President, I look forward to working closely with colleagues in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u122	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Another lovely maiden speech. Very personal and passionate. Then we'll go to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u123	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the economic aid package, but it should be about damage. Because of the persistence of this cabinet in the disproportionate corona measures, the damage is enormous. Of course for young people, the elderly, the cultural sector, the schools and the people who are not treated for cancer and other diseases, but the biggest financial damage this cabinet has caused to the Dutch business community, by the useless lockdown, the one-and-a-half meter rule, the expensive test society and by all the other inexplicable and pointless rules. A damage that many companies can no longer incur. I understand that the ministers in trade union K have done their utmost to release another 6 billion, but it is too little, too bureaucratic, too slow and it does not compensate for the suffering and the damage. Because how can you explain that the salary of a dga doesn't count in the NOW? Doesn't an owner of a bookstore just earn a wage to pay his expenses? And how can you explain that a chain of shoe stores or hotels is still not compensated for the damage suffered, while a self-employed entrepreneur is compensated? I read that the cabinet does not want a separate arrangement for affiliates. Why not? And why is the TVL maximized to 1.2 million in the second quarter? That's not helping anything. Why doesn't the cabinet just come up with a better solution? Don't the ministers think as a basic principle that as a government, you have to compensate for the damage you do? What happened to the banks? They'd help anyway, and they'd do virtually nothing. What do these ministers think of the 5.1 billion for which there are no receipts, the €500,000 paid per day for tests that are not carried out and the tens of millions for non-working mouth caps? SMEs continue to disappear in the bureaucratic swamp and the support measures do not cover a fraction of the damage. Hundreds of thousands of companies are on the verge of collapse. Those are companies that created value, where hard work was done, where a lot of tax was paid and where no whining was done in an hour longer work. The Hague bureaucrats are now going to assess which companies are still viable. After the unnecessary flogging with the corona measures, this is a big blow to SMEs' faces. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to compliment Mr Van Baarle van DENK, Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks and Mr De Jong van D66 on their excellent maiden speeches. I was particularly impressed by Mr De Jong's. I liked the story and I'm really glad there's another entrepreneur in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u125	I thought Mr Van Haga was making another maiden speech, but it wasn't. Mr Van Haga calls himself an entrepreneur. He mentions a whole laundry list of things that didn't go well. I recognize a number of issues that the CDA is also concerned about. You really are an entrepreneur. Can you indicate how many companies have been supported by this cabinet? Perhaps there have been thousands, tens of thousands or more of them, whether they have gone through the NOW, the TVL, the TONK, the Tozo and so on. How many companies, which you stand for, are saved? Are you not making a two-year crisis management caricature here today, through which we cut through our economy and even, reflecting on Europe, do it quite well? I would also like to hear your answer as an entrepreneur, and not just as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u126	That's an interesting question. The basic principle must of course be that if you do damage, you also compensate for that damage. It is, of course, an enormous amount of money. It is difficult to map, but the damage amounts to hundreds of billions of euros. Of course, the 80 billion that the gentlemen have made available in box K is a fantastic amount, but that does not cover a fraction of the damage. When you look at the different entrepreneurs and industries, the blood runs through the streets. You agree with me. You've also been an entrepreneur. I can say this as an entrepreneur or as a Member of Parliament, but the difference between the damage and the aid packages is enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u127	This is my last interruption. I think it's so important that I want to make it here and not with anyone else. That is because we are wronging each other, including Mr Van Haga. I'm really scared to say that here. We're in a crisis. We saved hundreds of thousands of companies. Mr Van Haga is making it a caricature. There will be cartel edges in every crisis and every measure. We have discussed this repeatedly here in this Chamber. There will be companies that resent us that we may not be delivering customization, or that we do not have a specific arrangement. Let's all say collectively: we've done a lot of good. And then put accents on things that didn't go well. You're turning it all around. That does wrong to all those people in trade union K, the ministries, the RVO, the UWV and the municipalities that have fought hard. That's not just bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr. Amhaouch makes it a bit of a caricature, I think. What if you're a catering entrepreneur? You have done your best to take all kinds of measures, whether you believe in corona or not, and in the end that resulted in a traceability of the infections from 2.9% to the catering industry. Then the catering industry locked up. That is a totally pointless measure. You can say that they are all saved. No, they've been compensated for a very small percentage of their damage, and they're hanging on the ropes. They're on oxygen. That's terrible. If you had looked at this in a more technical way, you are also a technician and had looked at what measures would work, I think the damage would have been a lot less. So I do not agree with you at all. I think that many companies have incredibly tobacco from these corona measures and have suffered incredibly much damage. The pension pots have been looted, the children's savings accounts have been looted and the reserves in the companies' bank accounts are gone. So there's a huge blow coming. It's May now. The holiday allowances for May have been paid. I can't wait to see how many bankruptcies that's gonna bring. We're gonna see. I hope you're somewhat right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u129	When Mr Van Haga was just speaking and I looked around this Chamber, I crawled the next thought. Of all the speakers today, he is the one who has achieved the most preferred votes. In that case, I shall have to ignore subject-K, because Mr Hoekstra had more. But Mr Van Haga has the least speaking time. I was actually curious: if he had had more than two minutes now, what would he have liked to make the most important point? Actually, I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u130	This is very special, but it's okay. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u131	I really like that. I actually wanted to say something about the Bishop Committee, but it is your respectable SGP that also houses Mr Bishop. I can't say anything about that right now. This is making it very difficult for me. If I had had more time, I hope that will give me a few more seconds. Of course, I would have liked to say a little more about those affiliates. You have been interrupting this, and I have been interrupting it. There's something weird going on. That's not fair. It's weird that there are big corporations with all these separate hotels, loose shoe stores or separate branches and that they're being treated like they don't have any money, when the money's not a problem. The blood runs in the streets. You yourself said it was about 180,000 employees who are threatening to stand on the street. That was one of the points I wanted to make. Thanks to you, with great respect for the SGP, I was able to make it. I also hope that the Bishop Commission will be evaluated at some point. I'll be in touch with your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u132	Thank you. Mr Van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u133	I would also like to give you a little more speaking time, as an entrepreneur. Here's what I'm worried about. Entrepreneurs are calculating people. They have a vision of: all this effort I make, does it yield enough or should I devote money? So far, for the past year, there's had to be money. Many companies have done so with the idea that the sun will shine again. Now the sun's gonna shine a little bit. The question is of course: how many entrepreneurs, you expect, will still throw in the towel because of that huge debt towards Tax Service, suppliers, landlords, you name it? Are you expecting a tsunami of bankruptcy or do you think it's gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u134	Yeah, I expect so. I couldn't agree more. You have also announced this in so many words in your own term. You say entrepreneurs are calculating. When I talk to entrepreneurs, I often see a solution man or a solution woman opposite me. They don't think at all: does corona exist or not, are the measures annoying or not? No, they just think, "How can I sell some more ice cream?" If they have to close their store, they're gonna think, "I'm just gonna sell ice cream or I'm gonna call my friends and sell some more ice cream." Eventually, they make less sales, probably just enough to survive, but just too much to get support. Those are the dilemmas. In general, I see that they are looking for a solution, and that is often not in line with their own interests. You'd better just close up and pull support, but I don't see anyone doing that. I expect a tsunami of bankruptcy, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u135	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u136	The question is, of course, the following. If there's going to be a tsunami of bankruptcy, then that whole support operation has been a failure. It's been for nothing. We have then thrown 81 billion into the economy with the aim of preventing bankruptcies and maintaining jobs. If the resultant result is that jobs are still disappearing and bankruptcies are taking place because they do not want to work for the Tax Office for the next five years, then it has been for nothing at all. It often means that you have to give the profits of the next five years to the Tax Administration because of that overdue debt. So my question is: what would be the solution? Should we get rid of it? Is that the solution now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u137	If that tsunami doesn't go bankrupt, then you have a vulgar power shift from SMEs, business and dga's to the rest of society. If that tsunami does get there, it's all for nothing. What kind of solution could you take care of? I believe that if this damage is done, the government should compensate 100% of that damage. We're not doing that right now. That would be better. But it's the question of what form you do it in. If you are going to cancel taxes, you will have another big imbalance, because some have indeed robbed the pension pots, plundered their children's savings account and paid their taxes nicely. If you're gonna do that, you're gonna do something unfair. So you have to do something generic. As far as I'm concerned, you have to decide what the damage is and pay it all back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u138	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u139	President and best citizens of the Netherlands. Large companies that earn billions, large companies that receive tens of millions of euros in state aid, who pay large companies whistling millions of bonuses to top people. KLM, Holland Casino and Schiphol took the most out of the row of the NOW, which cost more than 3 billion euros in total. Millions get state aid and then pay bonuses to the already well-paid top people, it's really unsellable to society. Certainly not to all those incredibly hard-working entrepreneurs who, because of the corona measures, were faced with forced closure. For example, a guitar shop in Amsterdam-Zuid had to stay closed for months, while all shops around him were open again. The entrepreneur saw that there was a row of twenty people standing in front of the Gall & Gall near him and that the supermarkets were full, while his specialty shop had the shutters in front of the windows. He was rightly frustrated by a note on his window saying: "Thanks to me, we are going to overcome this pandemic. It's a good thing my store has to close." Where rules are made, there are always troubles. I get that. But what is to be done by such an entrepreneur or by many other small SME entrepreneurs when they see that the big boys are supported by millions and are so bold to pay millions in bonuses? Is the Minister prepared to withdraw the aid to companies that distribute dividends and bonuses, even if it goes through a foreign holding company? Then there's the tax debt. The cabinet doesn't want to apologize to a general for all outstanding tax debts. Minister Hoekstra does not consider it fair to the parties who have done all they can to avoid tax debts and to the organisations that have repaid their debts to the tax authorities as well. That makes sense, but let's make sure we don't create a new bonus affair, focusing too much on potential fraudsters or unwillingness and losing sight of the big picture. Let us be careful not to muffle the well again after the calf has drowned. Let's help entrepreneurs get healthy again. The government has decided to take rigorous measures. Shops, companies and alsozzp'ers ran out of income because this was imposed by the government. Apart from the discussions on whether these measures were good or bad, this is another discussion, which we are probably going to talk about again tomorrow.The government has a duty to ensure that entrepreneurial Netherlands gets back on its feet. A general's pardon could be a nice step. My question to the Minister is whether he will consider this after all. BBB is particularly concerned about the small entrepreneurs. Small SMEs together create a thriving economy. People work there in an environment where they're not an anonymous personnel number. Small family businesses in the city and in rural areas are already difficult to compete with in a 24-hour economy, because large companies make up the service, for example in the area of shop opening hours. BBB asks the Minister for extra care and attention for these small businesses, now and in the future. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to give companies ten years to pay their deferred tax obligations? Finally, the Tozo. Municipalities decide for themselves what the settlement or aftercare is. How are we supposed to imagine this? It may be dealt with differently per municipality. One municipality might be a little more coulant than the other. Isn't there randomness? How are we going to ensure that entrepreneurs are treated according to the concept of equal monks, equal hoods? I would like to conclude with the following: the government is there for citizens and not the other way around. Let us also bear that in mind with regard to the aid package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr De Jong, Mrs Maatoug and Mr Van Baarle. The maiden speeches were very nice. I really enjoyed it. Thank you so much for that. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days I have been looking out with great pleasure, at the Square and at the full terraces. The libraries are finally open again. Entrepreneurs look forward to being able to take action quickly again without support. There's gonna be perspective again, but we're not there yet. It is wise for the cabinet to extend the support packages by three months. The package is solid, a compliment for that. As long as there are restrictive measures, this aid is fair and necessary. I am curious how the Minister looks at the balance between the aid package now and the economic recovery in the longer term. Volt also welcomes the postponement of tax obligations. But is this delay enough? Can we prevent profits from going straight to debt so that companies can invest? Volt believes that anyone who deserves support and that it should also be possible to apply for this support. We still notice that entrepreneurs are falling apart. Is that why the Minister is also looking at any follow-up action? In addition, you could consider whether these entrepreneurs can still be included. But in the end, we want the economy to get back on its own feet without dropping people. Mr. Chairman. The CPB indicates that much of the support goes to companies and to people with fixed contracts, while the vulnerable in the labour market are not yet sufficiently helped, i.e. people with temporary contracts, callers, employees in dependent positions and young people seeking their first job. As far as Volt is concerned, we are looking at how we will ensure that these groups will be able to keep their heads above water. They should be able to continue to participate in the event of a revival of the economy. Can the Minister therefore reflect on this view? The corona crisis has increased inequality. We see a division in the labour market. But we also see the inequality of opportunity in society. The costs of support will be borne by future generations and, at the same time, youth unemployment is still high. In the letter on the support package, I read that the social package is going to help this particular group. This will be the subject of a letter in June. Can the Minister tell me how he intends to invest in combating youth unemployment and training? Does the Minister already have a view on tackling poverty and debt? Because a number of municipalities have started projects to tackle youth unemployment. Can the Minister tell me how these are going and whether young people are really being helped? And what are the goals set for this package? Can the Minister tell me whether the money allocated for this is really enough to ensure that all generations will be able to participate in the economy in the future? Mr President, I will conclude. Is the Minister also looking at ideas that connect groups and strengthen sectors? In France, for example, everyone aged 18 gets €300 to spend on cultural activities, such as theatre or museum visits, concerts or a good book from the local bookshop. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch aid package consists of 6 billion for aid. And there is another 6 billion waiting for us in Europe. Let us make good use of both for the recovery of our economy. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what plans he would like to submit for the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Let us repair the roof as the sun shines again, and invest in long-term recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u142	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Koolmees and Mr Van 't Wout for the way in which they have spoken to all the groups to get input for the extension of the support package. I wish Mr Van 't Wout a great deal of happiness, by the way. I really appreciate that input being picked up. But yes, I am very sorry that little or nothing has happened with that input; it is no different, Mr Koolmees. Two things are of particular importance to our group. One: those groups which do not have sufficient access to the income system. Some of them have already been mentioned by colleagues. They must now be supported. And two: the partner test should be off the table. Neither of these things is settled. It's the International Sex worker's Day today. Unfortunately, it is also the day on which we have to talk again about how income schemes are inaccessible to that particular group. A few weeks ago, I sent the poignant stories of dozens of sex workers to Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte. There is now a motion by Mr Bikker, adopted by a great majority, in which the Chamber said on 12 May: make sure that the sex workers are entitled to income support. I repeated this call in the conversation with Mr Koolmees, but nothing seems to have changed in practice. So I'd like to ask the Minister why not? The inaccessibility of income schemes is not a problem for sex workers alone. This problem also affects the self-employed and the arts and culture sector, which has been in financial need for over a year. A major problem with this is still the unfair partner test. I'd like to ask the Minister why he's still holding on to this. All in all, it is incomprehensible that people who need the money to make ends meet are being cut short, while today it has been said a few times that the top of big companies such as Booking.com and KLM can count on millions of bonuses and guarantees with public money. I share with the SP the appeal to the Minister, and I would like to ask him how he will arrange for all support to Booking.com "cum suis," I would say, to be repaid. Because at how many more companies can the company top actually count on free bonuses of community money? Can the Minister elaborate on this and tell us how he is going to get back that community money that has flowed to the rich at the top and get where the people most need it? Then there is another group that needs support. I heard today that many migrant self-organisations can no longer afford the rent of their locations. These are voluntary organisations which do not have enough turnover losses to qualify for aid, but which are essential in precisely those vulnerable neighbourhoods. Would the Minister consider how we can still provide financial support to these and similar organisations? Mr President, concluding. I believe that in the coming months we will have to have a broader discussion about the Netherlands after the corona crisis. The real crisis in this country is the practice of capitalism, which makes one work for a hunger wage and on the other hand rewards shareholders and directors in the middle of a crisis. I look forward to discussing our economic system and the importance of security of existence for everyone in the Netherlands in this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u144	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating aid packages for a whole day, the total volume of which is now tens of billions of euros. I repeat: tens of billions of euros. What's this showing? This shows that our economy, and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, has been given a real sledgehammer over the past year by the measures taken by this cabinet. The economic and social damage is enormous. As a FVD, we've been buried in letters from desperate entrepreneurs who don't know what to do with it for the past few months. Self-employed people, small entrepreneurs and young businesses are particularly hard hit: hairdressers, catering shops, physiotherapists, etc. Events are cancelled or severely restricted. Until now, outdoor carnival operators are not allowed to organise carnivals. Their equipment has been rusted away for the past year. Some entrepreneurs are so desperate that they even paid the pension money to save their life's work. Aid schemes were found not to be sufficient or not to be applicable. I'd like to give an example of three heart cries. Mr De Boer from Barbershop Nero writes to us: "The hairdressing industry is hit hard by the lockdown and, above all, by insufficient government support. Many enterprising hairdressers feel abandoned and distraught. A beautiful company is threatening to break down." Mr Wallaard writes to us: "My wife is now at an end and walks through the house like a zombie. The kids shouldn't ask her any more questions. Her work was taken from her. She received a fee in the first lockdown. In the second lockdown, which is much heavier and in which the deadline is likely to be longer, she suddenly gets no more euros. Now we need to call on her bank account that was meant for her retirement. No income and eat your hard-earned pension out of your debt: it gives you a lot of stress and anger." Finally, Mr and Mrs Smit, café owners in Rozenburg, told us: "It is simply inhumane how we, entrepreneurs, deal with us. The café has been around for 37 years, always without any financial problems. But now the situation is really to cry and there's no one to help us. Everything is promised, but nothing is done. We really don't have anything left. The final settlement must come now." And what's with all this? Have we been affected by a new type of Ebola virus that is extremely deadly? Do people fall dead in bushes in the street? Of course not. Corona is a heavy, heavy flu with in some cases potentially serious side effects that can lead to hospitalisation, no more and no less. The risk of death is no greater than with a heavy, heavy flu. We've turned a heavy, severe seasonal flu into a pandemic. Instead of turning our country into one large hospital, the cabinet should have drastically increased its ic capacity over the past year, for example by building four large pandemic centers of 1,000 Ic beds each. The damage caused by the lockdown is enormous and far greater than the tens of billions of euros we have had to spend on aid measures so far. Companies have gone bankrupt. Entrepreneurs see their life's work being destroyed. Dutch people are mentally in trouble and may not, who knows, be able to work for the rest of their lives. In order to keep quiet about the enormous physical health damage caused by delayed treatments and lack of movement, the gyms have been closed for a year. It will be clear: as far as the Forum for Democracy is concerned, we are opening up our society as quickly as possible and abolishing the support measures we are debating today. Entrepreneurs do not want support, entrepreneurs want to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u146	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u147	I would like to ask Mrs Maatoug, Mr De Jong and Mr Van Baarle to come forward and receive the congratulations of my fellow Members. I would ask you to take account of the 1.5 metres still in force. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m., including lunch break.
