ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on police ethnic profiling. We have 11 participants on the side of the Chamber. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. That is why it is called a 30-member debate. A warm word of welcome to the Minister, who has been in this building since half past nine this morning, I understand. So he made his hours. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. I would like to say that I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Den Haan of Group Den Haan. In 2014, the Chief Constable warned about the poison of exclusion. He mentioned two issues: discrimination within his own organisation and the detention of people on improper grounds such as skin colour and origin. We saw a few years ago that this happened to the rapper Typhoon repeatedly. The soccer player Kenneth Vermeer also happened. If they asked, the cops said, "You have a dark look and you have an expensive car." It happens to more Dutch. In the documentary Suspected fourteen Dutch showed how ethnic profiling got to them and how confidence in the police completely disappeared. It's a tough, painful reality. Three years ago, I requested this debate, but the problem has been going on for a long time. But also the approach. Since 2013, successive ministers have made commitments to reduce and address this problem. I welcome these plans and I think we can also see that there is an action framework, that there is training and that there is an app. But like that many times, it's in the implementation. It's in use. The police academy's own investigation shows that as many as 96.2% of the officers do not know the legal framework. Less than 4% know that. It's actually very simple. It says, "Keep people on the basis of objective criteria." Explain it to them neatly, so that the support is increased. Third, treat them respectfully. Finally, evaluate with your colleague how things turned out. That's all it is. I would like to ask the Minister if he can formulate concrete and manageable objectives when the relevant police officers are aware of that framework of action. We can't be satisfied with less than 4%. The second is that insufficient use is made of the data collected in the Proco app. Why isn't there a commitment to mandatory use? Then it can be made clear which controls are being carried out and who is being held. As far as DENK is concerned, the Minister reports on this half-yearly. Is the Minister prepared to do so? About training: what does the training look like? How many cops are being reached? What shows that this is having an effect? Finally. In order to remove the non-binding nature of this question, we propose that this question be poured into the form of an arrest form and that it be part of the Proco app. The Human Rights College calls for a clearer legal definition. It is therefore necessary to establish binding rules so that powers of control, surveillance and investigation can only be exercised on the basis of objective criteria. This is in the interests of society and the national police, but also in the interests of those arrested. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. There's a question from Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Azarkan, who says that you must arrest someone on objective grounds. Is Mr. Azarkan suggesting that the police do not do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	I'm not suggesting that. That's what chiefs of police will determine in succession. Mr Bouman, who passed away too early, said that this was one of the biggest problems. It's happening. This minister has also indicated it and it is in the reports. We have Typhoon's example. All Typhoon had was that he was dark and he was driving an expensive car. If you can't explain why that is, it's just really terrible. I hope you never see that. I've been there once. It's really something we shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	You're quoting an old chief of police and an old example. Does Mr Azarkan believe that this is still the case today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	Of course, that's what's happening today. I just want to know what that is like in practice. We have asked the police a number of times in the general consultation about the dates. I understand that Mrs Michon-Derkzen cannot be satisfied with the fact that we have a major social problem. This is also noted by one's own organisation. Then we come up with an approach and in practice 96% of police officers do not know that approach. Then that can never lead to satisfaction, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'll do the interruptions in half. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	Of course, ethnic profiling is reprehensible. Only, does Mr Azarkan agree with me that it is not right to put the whole police on the same footing? Does Mr Azarkan recognise that the fact that the police department itself objects to possible ethnic profiling, to any discrimination, merely indicates that such a generalising accusation in the direction of the police force is unjustified, that it is unjustly accusing people of the shame? Because Mr. Azarkan is talking about all the agents. He doesn't mean this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	This is a dirty trick, and I've heard it before. In my opinion, I've always been in the game. I'm so modest to say that I have a great deal of appreciation for the agents who guard our security day and night. I'm really happy about that. All I can see is that it can be improved on parts. This problem has been fully deployed since 2013, but the result is not good enough. I started to say I'm happy with the approach. I am also pleased with the Minister, who wants to mean something in that. But I also realize that it's difficult in a very large organization. It's about cops checking professionally. This requires that when they arrest people, they do so on objective criteria and when facts and circumstances invite them to do so. And I agree with Mr Bishop that it is not all cops at all, certainly not. I never wanted to wake up that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	I welcome the nuance of Mr Azarkan. I just find it odd that he doesn't do that until an interruption of mine has been called a dirty trick by him. I'm sorry, but these kind of enforced statements... I hope it comes straight from the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	I do that because I have noticed a number of times that, when I criticise the police or any other authority, and that criticism is based on facts, because I try to talk as much as possible about facts and circumstances...................................................................................................................................................................................................... No, it's not. I'll repeat that again. But it does happen. I do not accept that colleagues say to me: you are treating everyone in the same way. I don't do that, and I'm not gonna let that get to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you. Then Mr Markuszower of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	Ah, ah, ah, chairman. Did you also read that intellectless and drunken letter from Minister Grapperhaus? He writes that ethnic profiling must be avoided because if it does, the legitimacy and effectiveness of the action and social trust in the police must be affected. But, of course, it's the other way around. The police should be able to do their job. The police are few and have a lot to do. We all know that of all suspects in the Netherlands, one in three is a non-Western immigrant. It is well known that Moroccan young people are five times more likely to be suspected of crimes than Dutch young people. So, of course, police officers have to search them all the time. That's the most effective thing. We want the streets of the Netherlands safer. So you leave Truus, Henk and Kees alone and grab Ahmed, Mohammed and Kautar. So they need to be searched all the time. Then the measure is the most profitable. Then the streets of the Netherlands will be safer and social confidence in the police will grow. Those Moroccan kids hid the drugs in their pants and they carry guns. And they don't hesitate to use those weapons either. In 2020, young people in Amsterdam were suspected 2.5 times more often of committing violence than in 2019. Every six days a shooting took place in Amsterdam. Preventive searching in certain groups and in certain places is therefore a bitter necessity. Of course, sometimes the police will have to search someone who doesn't have anything on him. Then I assume that person is very happy with the police search, because that way the police will keep him or her safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very curious whether Mr Markuszower is aware of the fact that most sexual offences are committed by men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yes. By the way, I must mention that little research has been done on women committing sexual offences. That's a child who's been put down in the sex crimes. But, yes, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's a fantastic answer. It actually brings me to my point. If men are most caught committing sex crimes for the time being, you might think of a preventive measure such as castration. I hope, by the way, that the creative department of JA21 will be watching; perhaps they will be able to make a nice video of this reflection later on. You could say: we can take preventive action; let us, because men usually commit sex crimes, castrate all men preventively. That could be an idea. At least you'll do something about the problem. At the same time, Mr Markuszower says: you could also look at that group that we do not know whether it is committing sexual offences as often or not; perhaps we should focus our efforts on that too. In other words, you can't just rely on the figures, because those figures can sometimes confirm themselves because there's a narrowed look from a bias over the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	Totally. Not with the idea that all men should be castrated, but with the idea that it is very good that those who committed sexual crimes are chemically castrated after their staff or during their punishment. So it is good in itself that we find each other in that. I also fully agree that as a police officer, you should, of course, look at all the threats and really not just focus on a particular group. But, yes, if you are few and the danger is great, then it is wise to look first at the great danger with these few resources. And, of course, you shouldn't forget the lesser danger. That too can be quite dangerous. So I fully agree with most of what Mrs Simons said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	I do not really understand what Mr Markuszower is saying. I do not understand it very well, because the police have said: we want to check professionally. This means that no matter who we arrest, we need to be able to explain why we're arresting someone. Mr Markuszower can't argue with that, can he? We must be able to do this on the basis of facts, circumstances and objective criteria. We are not all going to arrest people on the basis of all kinds of external characteristics, nationality or origin, as Mr Markuszower says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	I'm not a cop, but I do speak a lot. They would very much like a broader mandate to be able to search preventively. Appearances don't tell me that much. That sounds a little scary, but a police officer, certainly one who has a little experience on the street, sees exactly what more danger comes from. Is that a lady of let's say 55 years, who just walks out of the Albert Heijn and puts her groceries in a big bag, and then walks to her car or her bike? Or is that the Moroccan with the fur collar that was just honking wildly on his scooter? The chance that Mrs. 55 has a kalashnikov in her bag, just after she got out of that Albert Heijn, is of course a lot smaller than that mocro has a weapon. Agreed? Well, I agree. Most cops think, "Yeah, that's a better chance. And if that policeman has to choose who he should search preventively, because he has preventive search services today, then it would be wiser to go to that boy, also in view of the statistics. Again: more men than women, regardless of their origin. So you have to give the police mandate. You should also listen to their gut feeling, because that's developed. That gut feeling isn't just based on something bad. This is also based on experience and knowledge. You also need to look at certain areas. In some neighbourhoods there is more crime than in other neighbourhoods. Perhaps it would be wise to search there more preventively than in other neighbourhoods. Of course, you must use your resources as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	I can even go for a walk with it. My point is that you want to record that then. You have to be able to explain. Whether you keep that Moroccan Dutchman or that old lady, you have to do it on the basis of objective criteria. You have to be able to explain that. That's what you're registering. What Mr Markuszower does not say is that in the case of fraud, money laundering, child pornography or mistreatment of women, most of them are people of non-migration origin. It would be strange, for example, to ask the PVV Group about the fact that there is someone there who is suspected in a certain form of exploitation of women? We're not gonna do that, even if that's about 6%. We are not going to say: we see a factor 6 more in this than in other Members of Parliament, so we are going to take the whole group and keep them preventive. That would be weird, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	You're always welcome to come with me. This is not related to what is happening here in the House of Representatives, because it is about society. I also agree with Mr Azarkan. For example, I think the Netherlands is a major producer of child pornography. If you find that a certain profile is a greater risk than any other group, let's say the white Dutchman of 35 years of age who still lives with his mother, then I'm fine with the police being more attentive to it by detectives. After all, it is the most effective chance of getting caught. In large cities, weapons, drugs and so on are more likely to be found among immigrant young people than among native young people. That's just true. We can see that in the numbers. Perhaps it is also true that Eastern Europeans, for example, are breaking and entering more. Then let's put an extra focus on that. Maybe we can see where child porn producers come from. You can also put an extra focus on that. Today we are talking about preventive search or ethnic profiling. It's fine to profile. I'm very much in favour of profiling. Sometimes I have to. Well, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u25	A minister who is fighting the reality of these figures has certainly been lit up with the dangerous denial virus that is now raging through the Amsterdam City Council and the city administration. The Amsterdam mayor is already infected with it. She does not send security services to Amsterdam's mocro's, but hinders the police in their work by sending civilian observers to the police. The preventive search trial could finally start in Amsterdam after many police cries, but was expertly wounded in advance by the total lack of trust of Mayor Halsema in her own police force. The Minister should be taking strong action now. Put that crazy Halsema in place and enter everywhere in the Netherlands as quickly as possible, just where many non-western immigrants are, without any limitation and with a broad mandate for profiling, preventative search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate has been waiting for a long, very long time, but I am glad that we are having it now. For many, the documentary Suspicious.This one is about ethnic profiling.. painfully recognizable. I have to admit, I didn't see the documentary until this weekend. It's really coming in. It's a moving documentary. Some said "it feels like you've been convicted" or "it feels like you're different, it feels like first-class humiliation." Since the broadcast of this documentary, the police haven't stopped. Last year a lot of work has been done on diversity and inclusion. A policy programme has been set up, discrimination detectives have been appointed and the influx of the police has also become more diverse. These steps contribute to further legitimacy of police action. They also contribute to the social confidence that the police should be there for every citizen. So much for the good news. Nevertheless, as many as 32% of all prospective agents leaving have a migration background. That's still disproportionate. Nevertheless, in recent years there have been several incidents of discrimination in the police. For example, a group of Hague agents called themselves in a whatsapp group "Morocco exterminators" and were referred to in a Rotterdam whatsapp group of citizens with a migration background as people they would like to shoot at. Mr. Chairman. I know that by far most cops have good intentions and are ashamed of these kinds of messages. I also see that there is an urge for improvement in the police, but when I read how some leaders deal with these incidents, I still worry about the checks-and-balances within the police summit. The Rotterdam agent in question received only a written reprimand, the lightest sanction. That's why I'm asking the Minister. What are the directives on sanctions for discrimination against agents? Who checks that the police leadership sets an example when it comes to diversity and inclusion? And have policy goals been set per unit and what happens if the targets are not met? Mr. Chairman. The report by the National Ombudsman Discoloured images clearly shows the tension in ethnic profiling: where one is discriminated against, the other feels misunderstood. The report also contains several recommendations. My question is actually very simple: how do we know that these recommendations will be followed? What happens to that? I ask the Minister to do the same. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to highlight the alleged usefulness and necessity of preventive searching. My group is also concerned about the increased possession of weapons among young people. My group is also concerned about any young or adult who ever takes a wrong turn and then fails to get on the right track with all the consequences. But my group does not believe that we are solving this problem by searching it preventively. My question to the Minister is therefore very simple. "Simple" but in the end probably complex! How does he intend to take away the causes why young boys often go the wrong way? Are there any good examples that we can share in a wider country? And what does he want to give to the next cabinet if it ever comes from it to reverse this trend? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you. Mrs Kathmann from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. What the summer or love should have been, ended up in a summer full of nuisance and violence, at least with me in the district, Spangen, Rotterdam. But if you ask all my neighbors and neighbors if we should do everything we can and if the police should do everything they can to get that security back in the neighborhood, then all my neighbors and neighbors say, "Yes, we should do that." But when I ask my neighbors and neighbors, "If those actions and controls are going to take place, are you a little afraid of that ethnic profiling?', Then all my neighbors and neighbors also say: yes, we are a bit afraid of that, especially for our sons and daughters. I also come from the area where Hümeyra was murdered. In the Minister's letter, I can tell you very much that he is actually trying to do justice to all the full-bodied yes. "Yes, security, and therefore police actions and controls," but also "yes, ethnic profiling is a major problem that has no right to exist, especially in an organisation with a monopoly of violence." In this respect, therefore, I welcome the Minister's letter and the steps that have been taken are good, but there really should be a scoop on top, especially with regard to the independent right of disciplinary action. When I read the opinion, I find it incredibly regrettable that this is a negative opinion. There are four reasons why you should want that independent disciplinary law. The police become more transparent and it does justice to the feelings of justice. It improves the profession. It provides balance, because disciplinary law provides a basis for action. And there's a lot of learning from mistakes. These are exactly one-on-one recommendations in the Ombudsman's report on ethnic profile by the government. I am not going to announce a motion here, because I know a lot has been put in motion when it comes to the sanction model in the police. That should give you time. I know that, because a subject such as ethnic profiling and certainly its approach deserve time. But I will tell the Minister that this motion is hanging over the market if the evaluation of what has been started is not correct. That scoop on top of it is basically about what Mr Azarkan van DENK already suggested: the implementation of everything that has been started. That is what is lacking, and in this respect I agree with the questions on this matter and with Mrs Ellemeet's questions on the sanctioning of discriminatory police offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. Any discrimination or racism is always wrong and must be fought vigorously, especially in the government, because the government belongs to the people. The government should set a good example, the police first. People need to have the confidence that the police are there for them too. If that doesn't happen, it's bad for trust in the police and government in general. Safety is also human work and mistakes are made. Serious errors, such as the much-discussed racism in the Rotterdam police app group. If you have a dark skin color or come from a certain neighborhood, you have a better chance of being picked out, for example to be searched or controlled. Ethnic profiling is a form of discrimination. That cannot be done, we reject it, and if police officers go wrong, then we must take firm action against it. We have to set boundaries. There is no place for racism and discrimination and certainly not in the police. At the same time, it is not the case that our police cannot be trusted or that cops would be racist through and through. I'm resisting that image. There are enormous challenges for the agent with too few colleagues and too high workload, which is linked to organized crime, with liquidations, gun clatter, nuisance in neighbourhoods. Then it is up to you and your colleagues to do the right thing, to catch and control criminals, without unjustified discrimination. My question to the Minister is: what effective measures and interventions have been found to counter profiling on the basis of ethnic characteristics? The Minister rightly speaks of a more diverse corps, but there are almost no agents to be found at all. Now a job summit has also been set. Then how is the Minister gonna solve this? We do not want to subject agents to registration and bureaucracy, due to even more forms and local demands. Can't we be smart about the data that already exist and are entered by agents into the existing Proco app? For example, do cops get a report if someone has been wrongly held up more often? And if we don't know exactly, shouldn't that be investigated? If someone is being checked, there must be an objective justification for that. Why is someone being held up and why isn't the next person, for example? I understand, for example, that there is more frequent monitoring in areas where there are many weapons circulating and where there is a lot of violence, but that is often the neighbourhoods that are already struggling. Then you can say: the residents of good will also suffer from the bullshit in the neighborhood and they want it to stop. But you will indeed only be that Moroccan Dutchman with a good job, which is always picked out. That is particularly unfair and unacceptable. I'd like a response from the Minister. What's the right thing to do and what's the wrong thing to do with profiling? Ethnic profiling must not be allowed, that is quite clear. But is it allowed to profile on socio-economic class, for example? In fact, I think that, if you want to be consistent, at least more checks should be carried out in the marinas and at construction companies. That's where we can suspect a lot of wrong money. Then go check on the Zuidas, where the upper world facilitates the underworld. Because let's be honest: that doesn't happen now or hardly, and I think that is actually a form of class justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u32	Perfect on time. Mrs. Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Thousands of agents are working every day to keep our country safe. They are taking a step forward to protect us when others are stepping aside. They will leave our safety beyond their own without hesitation, and that deserves respect. Let me also be very clear today: ethnic profiling, using a characteristic such as origin or skin color without objective justification, is simply called discrimination. This is unacceptable, especially for government organisations such as the police, who stand for everyone's rights and security. I'm glad the police think so, too. For years she has been taking steps to prevent ethnic profiling, as with the use of the Action Perspective proactively controlling and using the app. We supported a motion by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Baarle in July to make that more known. Does anything ever go wrong? Something goes wrong sometimes, of course, but there is intervention where things go wrong. They're learning from it. We're behind our agents, and if things don't go well, we'll take them out of trust. Unfortunately, however, we do not see this everywhere, it seems, because we must also talk today about the Amsterdam case. In Amsterdam, where the mayor has observers watching how the police conduct weapons checks by preventive search. Preventive search as a means of carrying out weapons controls. Serviceable as he is, the chief of police in Amsterdam has agreed to this. The unions were, rightly, fatally opposed. In turn, they went back to checking the observers. The media put this extensively into view. It became a farce of sorts. To be honest, I would be surprised if another weapon was found with this action. I understand we're gonna hear that later. My question to the Minister is this. How does he assess the use of observers in preventive search? It is a local consideration or preventive search. I very much like the local council work that you know, but is it also a local issue how this medicine is used? How far does the service of the police go when a majority council says "it has to be in such a and such a way"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u34	One of the previous speakers, perhaps Mr Van Nispen, said that there are many ways in which you can search preventively. In almost all these ways comes a form of bias, of prejudice, of looking. I think it is quite right that we should also draw attention to, for example, class justice, which is also common in our country. Mr Michon-Derkzen talks about 'preventive search' all the time, but we are talking about ethnic profiling today, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you for this question, because that makes things clear. Ethnic profiling is often just about taking random people out without objective justification to catch them somewhere. Especially in the case of preventive profiling, ethnic profiling is lurking. At the moment when a council says "we have a problem here with forbidden weapons possession".... that you also saw in Amsterdam... then preventive search can be a means. The moment you use preventive search, you'll find out: but who do you search? Are you even doing that on objective grounds? Don't you just use ethnicity as the only ground? I'm against that, and fortunately the police are against that. The moment you start searching preventively, it's almost always about ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u36	So, if I understand you correctly, you're saying that where there's a preventive search, we can assume that there's an ethnic profile?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u37	No, I am not saying that, but the discussion about ethnic profiling is always behind the means of preventive searching to be used. That's what you saw in Amsterdam. Amsterdam has put in a preventive search. This led to the discussion of ethnic profiling, and so came observers and observers from observers. I myself believe that preventive search can be an effective tool. My group is against ethnic profiling. As you can see, with the framework of action, the police are professionally controlling the app, for the use of which we all call attention, trying to carry out checks as professionally as possible, so that there is no ethnic profiling, because that is what my group rejects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u38	Clear. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. I asked my questions about the Amsterdam issue. My final sentence would be: the police, which I very much agree with Mr Van Nispen, is all of us and must belong to all of us. He deserves respect and trust. It's under a magnifying glass to do the job as carefully as possible. That's what we're all keeping a close eye on here. As far as my group is concerned, all respect for the work they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. Then Mrs Belhaj of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. The police have powers that can intervene deeply in the lives of civilians. With this great power comes a great responsibility: the responsibility to treat everyone equally and fairly, regardless of colour, origin, nationality or identity. The Minister therefore also has the responsibility to prevent, detect and address ethnic profiling as much as possible. Preventing ethnic profiling is a continuous, comprehensive process. I don't think it's solved with one training or one workshop. It is a subject on which the discussion must take place within the organisation. It is therefore good to read that the professional control framework is slowly but surely known by more and more agents. But in the end, of course, it doesn't really work until there's a broad sense of why ethnic profiling is wrong, partly because of the aspect that cops can sometimes think: "Yes, but I've picked up someone who looks like Salima ten times? When I see someone like that walking again, I think they must have done something." It's interesting for cops, I think, to be aware of why it is. If you realize that socio-economic factors play a major role in criminal behavior, as the CBS has investigated, and you take that into account, then you know that the chances of criminal behavior are the same as among young adults with a Dutch background. So it's about awareness. The results of the virtual reality project are a good example. In that project agents simulate control situations and discuss them. Precisely because cops reflect directly on their behaviour on the street, this is effective for awareness. I would like to hear from the Minister how the project is going and what else he is doing to really raise awareness among agents about ethnic profiling. Better still than simulating the simulation is to gain insight into where and when ethnic profiling is still occurring, so to detect.... to gain insight into the extent to which ethnic profiling occurs and the possible effectiveness of controls. That too is important, because then we know what we are talking about. Indeed, as my colleagues have already pointed out, a nice application has been developed for this where all kinds of information can be obtained. It's attractive to draw that information to us. At the same time, I would like to avoid an information paradox. I mean that all kinds of workarounds are found not to be confronted with certain information. The trick is that cops keep putting as much information in that app as possible, so you can do something with that information, but my fear is that if you go public with that information, people might be tempted not to fill that application with information anymore. Of course, we'd like to use that information. I ask the Minister how he deals with this information. What's he gonna do with it? Finally, Mr President, it is important to tackle ethnic profiling. This is not only important in order to prevent it from happening again in the future, it is also important for citizens' confidence in the police. An important part of this is sound complaint treatment. The Ombudsman has published a very valuable report on this. What is the Minister doing with this in concrete terms? Can the Minister explain in detail what is being done with the recommendations? What is being done about the accessibility of the complaint procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you. One more question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u43	I hear Mrs Belhaj's contribution, in particular the part in which she says that there may be a workaround. We have often had discussions in the past about administrative burden when something had to be kept up to date; it was too much work and so on. Now my impression after reading the pieces is that it actually happens automatically. The moment a cop holds someone and looks up the name in the system, it's logged. That's what happens to a car. So it's not so much an extra act as something else they can do. Actually, it's already happening. The second is: the information, as I read in the Minister's letter, is made available to the CBS to determine whether an analysis can be carried out on it. Is that something that can work well for Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yes, but first I want to make sure it doesn't have any consequences. I want everyone to keep putting the information in there, and for the people who have to do it, the cops, there's a temptation to keep doing it. That's what I'm wondering. It wasn't a debate trick or anything, I was just wondering. That's why I asked the Minister if he recognizes it or not. Maybe it's like you say and it's already happening or it's fine to do it. Whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u45	If you look at professional checking and the whole approach... In fact, it is quite clearly said from within its own organisation that you have to do it according to the framework of action. In itself, therefore, there should be no other reason than the desire of agents to do it professionally. In that sense, we wouldn't like you... I'll tell you through you, Mr. Chairman. It seemed as if you were saying: I'm still looking into making it compulsory. It should actually just be a standard working method, where it is supportive that it actually happens almost automatically. That's my point. It wasn't about a debate trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u46	In my view, Mr Azarkan is twisting my words a bit. I think people should do it. That's what I'm saying. The only thing I want to be careful about is that it's true on paper, but not in reality. I'm interested in reality. I think it's important that as many people as possible keep filling that app. Otherwise, you'll have pollution. I'm not saying that people shouldn't do it. I'm just asking if there's any reason to be concerned that there's a possibility that people aren't gonna do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you, Mr President. When we leave the building, we see the spell "watchful and serviceable." It is about service to society as a whole and to the values of the rule of law, with regard to the different religions, cultures and traditions. In this respect, discrimination is absolutely unacceptable. If there are people who feel that they are discriminated against by the police, it is painful. Then it demands reflection and then it demands improvement. The trust between the police and the citizen will have to be restored in these cases. First of all, it is up to the police to show that they take signals of ethnic profiling seriously and that they are working on this. In all honesty: not only the documents, but also the contacts with the police are really positive in that respect. I welcome the measures taken by the police themselves, which are constantly alert, vigilant and serviceable to counter ethnic profiling. The police are open to complaints and want to talk to those involved to learn from those complaints. The framework of action also provides clear handles to reduce the number of discriminatory controls. I agree entirely with the colleagues who ask: yes, you can have it all neatly arranged on paper, but how does it work in practice? That is why I would also like to put that question to the Minister. Can the Minister indicate how the police ensure that this framework of action is known to every officer? That is not really the case so far. What will the Minister read: do the police do to make this known to every agent? For police confidence, proactive control should never go into ethnic profiling, but it remains necessary that the police, based on descriptions, perpetrator profiles and police policy, such as patser-approach, should be allowed to continue to monitor proactively. Vigilance and service must be balanced. I'm gonna close with one last question. Can the Minister indicate whether pro-active control and preventive search is not now too much, perhaps unintentionally, being dismissed as 'ethnic profiling', whereas this can prevent larger problems, such as stabbing incidents? Mr. Chairman. Since I have half a minute left, I have one small final comment, a little outside the discussion. This concerns the Minister's announcement in the letter of 7 September that the Holocausttontkenning will also be explicitly punishable. We are grateful to the Minister for that. We see this as an important step in the right of Jews to live safely in the Netherlands. We are therefore looking forward to the implementation legislative proposal with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u49	That was somewhat out of order. Anyway, I'll forgive you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u50	But it was all in time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u51	Yes, it was certainly within time, but if that's going to be the criterion... but thank you. Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, we had a committee debate on the police. Then we discussed, among other things, the Police Plan for Everyone, the answer to all the problems surrounding ethnic profiling within the police. But for the time being, those words are just a utopia. As long as there is proven ethnic profile within the police organisation, at whatever level, the police are simply not of everyone, let alone anyone. Mr. Chairman. Until this Chamber finally decides that this is a real problem, we might as well have this debate every month. Although, we've also had to wait three years for this. But no one has time for that, so let's be brief. Let us be the first to realise that ethnic profiling is a violation of the first article of our Constitution. There should be a point there. That should be the end of the discussion right away. However, let us ban the use of ethnicity and nationality in any form of risk profiling. Let us finally discuss the practical inviolability of police officers. Let's draw conclusions for cops who send racist apps. Let us follow the recommendations of citizens' initiatives and civil society organisations, of human rights organisations such as Alt Delete and Amnesty International. Let's talk about why we still have to talk about that. My proposal is: let's just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mrs Simons is talking about evidence of ethnic profiling. But are you referring to the incidents that we are always talking about here in the Chamber, or are you saying that through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u54	...or says Mrs Simons with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u55	Or does Mrs Simons say, through the chairman, that there is structural ethnic profiling as part of normal police practice? I think that is an important distinction to be made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u56	Two things are happening here that systematically frustrate the discussion and progress on this issue. First of all, this is constantly the question: is it and, if so, is it bad enough? Let me let go of the analogy I presented to Mr Markuszower on this question. Is it bad if someone rapes someone once or does someone have to systematically rape people before we find it a problem? It doesn't matter. It's happening. And it happens too often. 'Cause every time, there's one too many. It happens within the organization and on the street. And the whole of the Netherlands, the whole of society has a problem with that. I'll be repeating myself. I hate to do that, but I've noticed in politics I've been sitting here for five months now that you can't escape it. People often need a little time to transcend their cognitive dissonance. Every time it happens, it's a violation of our Constitution. Once a week, fifteen times a day: it is a violation of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u57	I'm asking for this. You're turning it around, too. There is no one in this Chamber who trivializes incidents or even wants to muffle under the carpet. No one wants that. From a police organization in which 50,000 people work who are in the wind every day, I also say that there will be incidents. But I hear Mrs Simons say that you do not acknowledge these incidents, so I have to say how bad something is or is not. I would like it so much if we could say to each other here: there are indeed incidents. We're gonna have to discuss it here, too. That's what we need to learn from. That's what we need to talk to the police organization about. However, I would like to ask Mrs Simons specifically: does your group think that there is structural and systematic ethnic profiling within the police? 'Cause that's something to establish here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u58	So this is exactly, as I just said, training the discussion. There's reports. There are black books from the organization itself. Mrs. Ellemeet already pointed out the documentary Suspected. For anyone who hasn't seen him yet, I can recommend him. There are reports from Amnesty International. How are you going to ask me at this stage of this discussion, at the moment in 2021, whether we are talking about incidents? May I tell you that my father, who came to the Netherlands in the early seventies, then still as a resident of the colony, every time they wanted to borrow his slightly overpriced car, he was able to tell exactly where they were going to be arrested and how they should react, so that they wouldn't get themselves hurt? May I tell you that I had a conversation with my adult son two weeks ago? And I'm saying this with a big apology to my kid, because he's not gonna like that I share this here. I had to compliment him, because he had listened so well to the conversation that every migrant in the Netherlands I am not a migrant, eh, but should have okay with his child to explain how to react when you are arrested, so that things don't escalate. I don't have time to re-assess here that it's a problem. It's a problem. The question is, are we gonna fix it? Are you prepared with me to persuade this Minister to take action tomorrow, if not today? It is not a question of "does it exist or does it not exist?" And "is it bad or not bad?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u59	You will have a question, Mrs Michon, but we will conclude with that. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'm definitely willing to do this. We have been tackling this problem with the Chamber for years, I say to Mrs Simons. Everyone tackles this problem to ensure that we get a more professional police organization each time. That's what we do with the framework of action, professionally checking, the app, the bejeging, the trainings. We do that all the time to make sure that police organization professionalizes and improves. So my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mrs Simons, concluding on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u62	I was speaking, Mr. Chairman, but I can see that someone is still interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u63	That "someone" is colleague Bishop. With all due respect for the personal experience, which I absolutely do not want to change, I have a little difficulty with the generalization that is then applied to it and then with the presentation of things as if nothing is being done about it. No, the police are vigilant and serviceable in this. It would be nice if Mrs Simons could also acknowledge that. Only then will your shoulder stand by the shoulder to wipe it out with root and branch where it occurs. An increase in the problem and placing it on the whole police force, I think, is absolutely unfair to all those policemen who are doing their job in good conscience. They have to balance the sharpest of cuts and make mistakes, and so on. But the police are willing to learn from that. Does Mrs Simons share this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u64	When I walk on the street and I see a police officer, I recognize him by his uniform. Other than that, I don't know anything about this person. I don't know if it just happened to be the one cop who's been crossing the line. I have to relate not only to the uniform appearance of the police, but also to the uniform culture of the police. The police are such an organization as it is, let us say, as one man manifests, and that is perfectly understandable. The luxury to ask first: are you a good cop or a bad cop is unfortunately not given many people who look like me, who look like Mrs Belhaj, who look like Mr Azarkan. Well, I understand that if the reality of ethnic profiling is not one that you face a lot, you think: I also like that some kind words are being spoken. Well, those kind words I speak particularly to the agents I know very well in my personal life, who are very close to me: my relatives, my friends, who are also just members, are part of the police organisation. However, we are talking about an intrusive institutional problem here today. Now I understand that Mr Bishop likes that I also say that most of them are very nice. But the reality is that when certain Dutch people are confronted with the police, on the street or in any situation, they cannot afford that luxury.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u65	This is exactly what is wrong with such an argument. "If I see a cop, I recognize him by the uniform. And whether or not he profiles ethnically, whether he does or doesn't, I don't care anymore. He is part of a system that discriminates institutionally, and so that agent is guilty." You don't want this, do you? Isn't this a form of discrimination towards people who act to their consciences? That's not the way to wipe it out with root and branch, is it? You're gonna have to focus your energy on the evil elements in such an organization, right, to deal with them? Don't tell me you're helping the cause by putting everyone on the same footing. I'm sorry, but I think this is an almost irresponsible approach to a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u66	The people who suffer most from bad behaviour from their colleagues are the good colleagues. They do not suffer from the fact that I appoint it, they suffer from the fact that they have to work with colleagues who disgrace the office. Then you can get mad at me, but if the President allows me, I would like to ask you again: how many times have you been ethnically profiled? How many times have you been arrested with the words "that's a very expensive car"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u67	Never, 'cause the cars I drive are all second-hand, mostly. This is a weird way of arguing, isn't it? We base ourselves on signals coming in from ethnic profiling and we say: this is unacceptable. We'll see if the cops handle this in a good way. We indicate that the police are taking action. And then they ask: yes, but how many times have you experienced this problem yourself? That's not the point, is it? It's about what the pieces of information provide, isn't it? It's not like I'm mad at you, on the contrary. I am just sorry that in this way the good people, the good cops, are treated in the same way as those who do not behave properly, who do not keep the oath of the police. I stand up for them. Well, well, you're free to ask a lot more questions. If you want to know what brand of car it is, how long I've been driving it and what age, I want to tell you all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u68	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr President, if I may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u70	But that doesn't matter for a while. I'm sorry. Let's have a serious discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u71	A serious discussion, which I am entirely open to, but do not blame me for finding it difficult for Mr Bishop to comment on an issue which he would like to judge on what the papers say, while this is about human lives. It touches... and then even with the word "human lifes"... it obviously depends on whose human life it is. It's a serious problem. I repeat: it is a violation of the first article of our Constitution. And with that, the discussion should be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u72	I would like to give Mr Bishop another chance to respond, and then you will continue with your speech, Mrs Simons. Mr. Bishop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u73	Since mimics and gestures do not end up in the Acts, perhaps it is good to explain what Mr Simons has just been trying to make clear. She made it seem as if in this whole discussion I would regard the human side of the whole, the aspect of human life, as irrelevant. That is by no means the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u74	Fine. Then that's corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u75	That's a misrepresentation of things. Mrs Simons is free to go further in that, but I would also like to have coffee with her to talk things through in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u76	Well, then it's been established for a while. An interruption by Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u77	On a point of order, Mr President. I had the impression that you put the question in two with colleagues. In the meantime, it is the fourth time that Mr Bishop... So let me address you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u78	You're absolutely right. I'd be happy to answer that with any kind of pleasure. Mrs Simons asked a question to Mr Bishop. Actually, that is not possible, but it will happen, and then I will give Mr Bishop an opportunity to reply. In addition, something was suggested in the direction of Mr Bishop, and he wanted to correct that. Well, that's happened by now. I call Mrs Simons. I suggest you move on. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u79	I'll close up, Mr. Chairman. The time for talking is over. Of course, the police are developing programs to make it better. I'm talking to police officers working the streets. I'm talking to people from the top layers of the organization. I'm not talking about intent here. That intention is often worth as little as the result is diametrically opposed. I think 50 years after my father's arrival in this country, the time of talking is over. Let's talk about what we're gonna do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you. Then Mrs Palland from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mr President. My daughter's in a cozy class at a fine elementary school. In second grade, she wanted to tell me something about a classmate. She couldn't really tell who she was talking about, but I thought I knew who she was talking about: a non-western girl with a migration background and a different skin color. But my daughter's description was: she with the beautiful, big hair. It touched me. She doesn't see any color. I was wondering when and why that changes when we get older. Are we going to see such differences all of a sudden, or are people experiencing a different approach based on differences? Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the documentary Suspected, containing an impressive story about people who feel discriminated against by the police. Let us be clear that, according to the CDA Group, discrimination is always wrong. I understand from the Minister's letter that the police have reached out to the authors of the documentary on the form in which this should take place in police education. In addition, contact has been made with the persons interviewed. A good gesture from the police. The police organisation, including corps leadership, indicates that it wants to learn and improve on this point. There is energy in it, including with the Police project for everyone. As far as we are concerned, this also means that the police organisation as such is certainly not wrong. Mr. Chairman. Then, with regard to ethnic profiling. The National Ombudsman also mentions it in the report Discoloured images: the government, and therefore the police, must be able to explain on the basis of which a citizen has been selected and to what extent ethnicity plays a role in this. Being transparent, explaining and talking to people. Mr. Chairman. The police have established an operational framework for a professional check-up. That framework of action also has this as a starting point. Mr Azarkan also mentioned it. For the summer, the Chamber supported the Van Baarle/Azarkan motion in question, because this framework of action is not yet sufficiently known to the people on the work floor. How is this actually picked up and improved? I hope that this improvement will not lead us to take an example from the municipality of Amsterdam, which wanted to appoint citizens who report to it as police inspectors, citizens who look to the police to carry out their work in the pilot search preventively. In our view, this is the wrong signal and the wrong way of working. We should not feed and organise distrust of the police, but address each other when things go wrong and learn from mistakes. Mr. Chairman. I think the police, with an organisation of over 60,000 people, is the largest employer in the Netherlands. And that's where things go wrong. Within the Corps there is no room for people who systematically or intentionally discriminate or profile ethnically; let that be clear. The concept of the police is to protect people. It is not for nothing that cops take an oath in which they promise to serve the Constitution and behave like a good official: careful, incorruptible and reliable. They also promise not to do anything that will harm the standing of the office. That is what they are doing, and let us keep them to it. This means that the CDA Group has a lot of confidence in the police as a whole, but also to address this problem. Much is happening to prevent ethnic profiling. Let's continue that work. Let's work together to make everyone feel safe when a police car drives by. And let's do it from trust instead of distrust, vigilant and serving.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. To fall into the house with the door: JA21 stands square behind our police. This support is urgently needed, because the police are under pressure from all sides. This is not only due to the enormous shortage of capacity, but also because of what some here tonight want, namely to make the police suspicious and portray her as racist. It's reprehensible because this isn't true. It is common sense to use limited manpower as effectively and purposefully as possible. The police do this not on the basis of skin colour, as is often suggested in this debate, but on the basis of risk assessments and suspicious behaviour. These are the facts: Moroccan young people aged between 18 and 25 are suspected of a crime five times more often than Dutch young people, and Antillean young people three and a half times more often. Convictions show similar proportions. This is stated in the CBS's Annual Report on Integration 2020. There is simply a major crime problem among these groups. We must dare to name it. With that knowledge in mind, it wouldn't only make sense if these groups were held up more often by the police, it would be weird if they weren't. Despite that, they continue to fight over the back of the police on the left as cultural warriors. Unfortunately, this slander campaign has an effect, with the result that the Amsterdam agents are now being looked at by observers during the preventive search. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty, unless you're a cop in our capital, because then you're a racist until proven guilty. It's a sad low. I have only one question for the Minister: is he willing to publicly distance himself from the way Amsterdam deals with these agents? Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u84	But first there is a question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u85	I just heard Mr Eppink say that it is legitimate to search preventively on the basis of behavior. Is skin color a behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u86	A skin color is not a behavior. The circumstances or the place where it is may sometimes give the need to check preventively. You also often see people in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, mothers and fathers saying, "Check more, because I don't want my son or daughter stabbed by someone with a knife." That's what it's really about. It's about the actions. It's about the circumstances. It's not about the skin color.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u87	If it is not about skin colour, what other form of concrete behaviour is it? Is it frizzy hair or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u88	Hairstyle is different. Of course, it's a situation. Hairstyle is what one has. That's not an assessment character. You're looking at the situations. I'm talking, for example, about the nightlife. In Amsterdam, for example, there is little talk about homosexuals being beaten up. It turns out that this is what immigrant young people have done afterwards. The report of the municipality of Amsterdam was a bit muffled away, but those are also things you should look at. That's why I'm saying you need to be alert and you need to try to assess situations. Then I'm talking about risk situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u89	No, Mrs. Belhaj. I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan. I thought this was your second interruption. The second one was about frizzy hair. So then we go to Mr. Azarkan. If I do it in threes now, I'm gonna have a fight with Mr. Azarkan. You had two comments, so that is one more interruption. Otherwise, I'm gonna have a fight with Mr. Azarkan. I don't want to. If you want to say something else later on in Mr Eppink's speech, you can do it again. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u90	It is not quite clear to me what Mr Eppink means. He says: if people are suspects more often, there is a lineage there and that justifies in itself that you may arrest people from that group. Can Mr Eppink explain exactly what that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u91	I would first like to say something else to Mr Azarkan. He said that this debate was requested three years ago. He's been in the Chamber since 2017. Especially DENK has been very busy with the ethnic profiling of other Dutch MPs with a Turkish background by calling them "not Turkish enough" and because of their position on the genocide in Armenia. So, Mr. Azarkan, you need to be careful what you say, because you have a history with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u92	I was just asking a simple question. Mr Eppink stated with a number of figures that there was an overrepresentation of people of Moroccan origin. According to him, that justifies the arrest of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u93	I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u94	Then he comes up with this. I didn't get an answer to my question, so I'm gonna ask it again. It's just my first question. Mr Eppink, I say through you, Chairman, mentions a number of dates and says: there is an over-representation and that justifies the police doing its job well. I'll ask him what that proves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's about risk assessments, so situations and suspicious behavior. Based on that, you have to judge, not based on skin color. That could also be football hooligans, white hooligans or whatever, but it's about the situation and the behavior. On that basis, the police, I think, assess whether there should be a preventive check-up. In football stadiums, for example, that would be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u96	Thank you. Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u97	I had one last sentence to say, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes. Sorry, Mr. Azarkan, it has to be in two. Mr Eppink simply replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u99	I answered the question. Yeah, I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u100	I'm allowed to ask two questions, aren't I? Let me ask you a question about this. The framework of action contains exactly this story. What Mr Eppink just said is exactly the framework for action. It says: hold people on the basis of behavior, facts and circumstances objectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u101	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u102	The problem is that only 4% have this framework of action. Now this debate is about, and that is also my input and the input of a number of colleagues, that if we want to have a professional, controlling police organisation that is in the interests of society, of those who have been detained and of the prestige of the police more people should know that. Does Mr Eppink agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u103	I agree. In many cities, police forces are very diverse. When I went to Amsterdam in 1977 there were actually only white cops. That is completely different now; that is very renewed and that has become diverse. I think that is very important, also for assessing risk situations and behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u104	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u105	Then I'm gonna go through with the last one, because I'm gonna close up. I've lived in New York myself for years in Spanish Harlem for some time. The city was plagued by gang wars, with in the early 1990s 2,000 murders a year, a number that had fallen to 500 per year following the so-called discriminatory stop-and-frisk policies of Mayors Giuliani and Bloomberg in 2013. 1,500 lives saved, mostly black lives. Anyone who genuinely believes that he is helping minorities by making instruments such as preventive search suspicious should take a good look at himself. Those who do not fight crime make cities unliving and neighborhoods ghettos. That was my lesson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr President, I know how it works. You meant: you may ask two questions and actually prefer not to after. But I'm glad I still get the chance. I was in the process of building up to see what Mr Eppink is actually saying. Clearly, you need to be able to name things. If they are people of a particular origin, you must be able to name them and police officers must have the freedom to act on that basis. You indicated that skin color and type are not objective criteria for arresting someone. So you're also basically against ethnic profiling. Then my question is: what do you think is the causal link between someone's skin colour, someone's origin, and his criminal acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u108	The crime figures show large differences among the different population groups. This may be an indication in certain situations. This does not yet have to lead to searching, but there is a certain structure in which the police have to assess whether there is danger and whether there should be intervention. For example, in a particular disco where there are often arguments, it can be considered whether there should not be searched for the possession of knives. A knife is a very dangerous weapon, as you know. In London, that led to cutting. People stab each other. You're from Rotterdam. In Rotterdam the mothers beg the police to search and prevent their children from being stabbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u109	That wasn't my question. My question was: what is the causal link, so the one-on-one relationship, between someone who is Moroccan and his criminal behaviour? By causality, I do not mean a correlation, because that is crucial. If you think there's legitimacy in that, because it's so many people of Moroccan descent, it's logical that you hold on to it earlier, so you make the mistake by thinking: because someone has such a lineage, he's criminal. So that's why I thought: maybe you... I've never been able to find a publication in the Netherlands that has shown that. Maybe you found it. Is there anything you know that shows that there's a causal link between someone's origin, skin color and his criminal behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mrs Belhaj is constantly trying to make me say things I haven't said. I said that preventive search should be about behavior and risk assessments, and if the police make mistakes, then those people should also be punished. I think control is getting stronger. If you also look at the total number of complaints and the number of complaints that are ultimately justified, then the well-founded complaints are very limited in relation to the complaints submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u111	Fine. Mrs. Simons and then we're gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u112	I am also very curious to hear the causal link between a person's criminal behavior and his ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u113	It is not the case that people are suspect in advance because they belong to a particular ethnic group. That's not true at all. That's what you think all the time, that the police go around and say, "Oh, there, we'll get them sometime." That is not the case, it is about behaviour and risk assessments, to assess the whole situation. That's what I just said. That's what the police do. I also support the police, because that is very difficult work, especially because you can make mistakes. And if mistakes are made, there will be a complaint. And then as a police officer, you have to deal with trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u114	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u115	I would like Mr Eppink not to try to get inside my head and tell me what I think. 'Cause I'm asking the questions based on what I know I think. My question was very clear: is there a causal link between criminal behaviour and ethnicity, according to Mr Eppink?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u116	My answer is the same. It's the answer I've already given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mr President, I would like to ask a question to which a yes or no reply must be given. It's really a closed question. I'm doing that consciously so I can get a clear answer as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yeah, but he's already answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u119	Is there a causal link between criminal behavior, or any behaviour, and ethnicity, according to Mr Eppink?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u120	You're trying to get a yes or no answer. There are several factors involved in the assessment of a situation. But you don't want to see that, because you want to take everything back on race, with your identity policy. And that doesn't work. I lived in America. Everything you do here, you have imported directly from the United States. The result was in America that the police got less money and could do less and that crime has increased enormously. They're coming back from that now. It is said that the police must be able to act decisively. And all the corps in the big cities are very diverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you. I'll suspend for five minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr President, I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u123	...and then we're gonna listen to the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u124	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u125	You did get an answer, didn't you? It is not an answer that you like, but Mr Eppink has given you an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u126	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u127	In five minutes, we're gonna listen to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u128	The Minister has the floor. The room isn't completely full yet, but you can start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr. Chairman. It's a bit fateful, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u130	You're welcome to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u131	Like Columbo, I have the point of my story at the beginning. Most people don't know Columbo anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u132	No. Maybe you could tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u133	In the beginning, you saw who killed him. For an hour, Columbo would walk through the room and say, "But I had one more question." And then he would have solved the murder at the end. Mr. Chairman. This is a police debate. Then I'd like to start by saying very simply what a great police we have. Two weeks ago, Wednesday or Thursday night, two officers in Dordrecht were injured, one of whom was very serious. I stopped by the team last week. Those are our policemen. That's what I'm saying, because we're really talking about a problem tonight, but it's focused. I'm gonna say more about it in a minute. But I really want to say at the beginning: our policemen are doing a great job and are not only as enforcers, I always say it as well as as as aid workers in the middle of society. In other words, I would also like to say something about, indeed, Article 1 of the Constitution. I wrote it down myself. All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Then discrimination and a number of other grounds follow, and then it says behind it "... on any ground is not permitted." Ethnic profiling means generalizing and is thus treating unequal cases in the same way. That's why it's discriminatory. Ethnic profiling means that because of their ethnicity you compare people. I am very brief about that: it is not allowed. We are not allowed to put people on the same footing because of their ethnicity, but I would like to stress that we must also not put all policemen on the same footing. I am confident that the police and police people recognise the issue of ethnic profiling and that, if there is sometimes discrimination, there is a real desire to do something about it. We see them over and over again. The question of whatsapp group in Rotterdam has also been raised. Let us be clear: this issue has been raised by other policemen themselves. That's the starting point I keep holding on to. It is the credit of Mr Azarkan, who put this on the agenda a long time ago, that we are discussing this issue here today. I regularly talk about it with regional mayors, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police department, but also with policemen all over the country. I also said that I want to have a separate session on diversity and discrimination this autumn. It's something that just needs to keep our attention forever. I would also like to stress that the police have taken good steps over the last four years in preventing ethnic profiling and tackling discrimination. A number of points have been formulated by the portfolio holder diversity that are important here. I refer to increasing the diversity of the influx, the flow to management positions, the professional control and countering ethnic profiling, the exploitation of the knowledge of one's own organisation and the really serious handling of the claims of discrimination. Then there is also that Trading Framework professionally controlling. This has been repeatedly brought to the attention of the House. In the meantime, 30,000 employees have access to the Proco app through the MEOS application. I'm going to answer the questions that have been asked. I think it is important to look at the familiarity with the framework of action right away. Some of you, but first of all Mr Azarkan, have asked critical questions about this. All police officers on the streets must be familiar with and apply that framework. A lot of attention is given to this in briefings, trainings and trainings. I'll do it myself, and I'll keep doing it in the future. In 2022, as a follow-up to its earlier investigation, the Police College will examine the familiarity of the legal framework. I'll report to you on that. I want to do that every year, and I really want to work with the corps leadership to have the objective that next year we will be well above 50% of that fame, if it isn't much anymore. We just have to get on with it. It has also been asked why the full use of the Proco functionality on MEOS is not being used. I thought that was Mrs Belhaj's question, but it was Mr Azarkan's. I have another question from Mrs Belhaj, if that's any consolation. The functionality is currently available to the employees on the street and possibly also to other relevant employees who work with MEOS. It is an automatic pop-up and is therefore used when a search is done via MEOS. About the progress, I'll give you an update in the six-month report. Mr Azarkan used to go on with the motion calling for every agent to know the framework of action. I have just said a few words about this, but I would like to specify a little more. What do we do about it? We use ambassadors for that professional checkup. There's a lot of attention to it in the briefing and debriefing. The complaints from citizens are discussed in the teams. There are also annual discussions between citizens and basic teams on certain situations in this respect. On the leadership days, executives consider how they can even better conduct that conversation about professional control in their teams. Integral professional skills will also be addressed during the training. I have already mentioned the technical tool, the Proco functionality when using MEOS. For example, it is actively working to increase awareness more and more, especially where it may not have gone well from time to time. Mr. Chairman. Then the VR training for proactive controls. That was a question from Mrs Belhaj. There are currently pilots in four basic teams: Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, Central Netherlands and Zeeland-West Brabant. Each team gets five of those virtual reality glasses. This allows you to play a number of scenarios in the 3D environment and is explicitly zoomed in on behavior in a proactive control. The University of Twente will analyse the results of these pilots. They're very satisfying. Employees like to learn that way to get consciousness how it works. It just increases consciousness that way. Then there are a number of general questions from Mrs Ellemeet. How do we know that the Ombudsman's recommendation on discolored images is being followed? That report my department uses together with the police for further professionalization. I informed you of this in the six-month report of 4 June. Right now, we're gonna keep monitoring and the Room's messages if there's any reason to. At least that remains the guiding principle for us. Mrs Belhaj asked how to improve the treatment of complaints. The starting point for improving the handling of complaints is that citizens can file complaints in an easily accessible manner and that the police handle these complaints professionally. Appropriate handling is essential for citizens' confidence, as Mrs Belhaj has rightly argued. I have asked the Presidents of the police's external complaint committees to advise me on how we can further improve the handling of complaints about ethnic profiling. The police use these recommendations of the presidents, together with the recommendations of the report Discoloured images of the National Ombudsman, to further improve the complaint procedures. I'll follow that. I would like to say to you that at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, I will come up with a letter stating how we can see that the recommendations of those Presidents and the recommendations in the report on the Ombudsman's discolored images have actually improved the process. Mrs Ellemeet asked what the directives are on sanctions when it comes to discrimination. The unfortunate thing about the Rotterdam case, to which Mrs Ellemeet referred... May I finish this sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'd like you to finish the whole piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u135	In that Rotterdam case, there had already been a decision by the supervisor, so that the AGFA Committee, led by Job Cohen, had to establish that it could not handle that case entirely from scratch. In the autumn, the corps leadership organised a number of meetings with police chiefs on the standardisation and sanctioning of discriminatory behaviour. There is also talk with civil society organisations and groups, where the central question is: how do we arrive at a more or less uniform sanction policy that also meets what citizens can expect? I understand very well that there is a social problem, but you have noticed this, as well as in the police themselves, some mixed feelings about the outcome of the proceedings in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister. That sounds good. We took a look at what we could find on the internet. What reprimand do you get for what? It said that it is now up to the immediate leaders to make their own choices. That way, of course, you can get huge differences. I also read that this is a fine up to €22. That came to me when it came to very light sanctions. But if I listen carefully to the Minister, he says: the next step the police want to take is to see if it can be levelled anywhere and also to find sanctions that society can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u138	Yeah, that's right. I'll get back to you on that. I would like to do this in the same letter in which I would like to explain how the recommendations in the report on the National Ombudsman's image and the recommendations of the Presidents of the Complaints Committees have finally been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u140	The Minister talks about the handling of complaints that is very professional. But the National Ombudsman says that he is very critical of the handling of complaints, partly because 90% of the complaints that are submitted are dealt with in the first stage without the use of the complaints committee. I often get back from citizens that, if they are already said right, what rarely happens is that they get a letter of apology, but at the same time they don't see what else is happening within the organisation. Is that something the Minister wants to think about when he's referring to further professionalizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u141	Yes. Period. Let me start with a clear, brief answer. But, Mr President, perhaps I could hold Mr Azarkan by the microphone. In the six-month report of 25 May, I took it up for a while. I wrote literally: "19 January last, report Professional complaint handling by the police, National Ombudsman. It concludes that much is going well, but that there are still points of improvement. The police will make these points of improvement, as well as the recommendations regarding the handling of complaints about ethnic profiling contained in the report, part of the further professionalisation of complaint handling." That was the reason why I was saying to Mrs Belhaj, through the President, I do not see her at the moment: I want to see how we stand after a year about January next year. The Chief Constable says he wants to invest in the professionalization of complaints. Of course, I also have a considerable incentive for him and for me in what Mrs Kathmann said. She said: there really must be a huge battle now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u142	I want to go back a little bit, which is the use of that app. Ethnic profiling is wrong, is a problem and needs to be addressed, but we must do so effectively, without distrusting all agents. Using a mobile application, that Proco app, may be a solution, but I can't judge that very easily. It's nice that this is used a lot on the street. In the meantime, it is simply used automatically. I think that's very good. But does it work, for example, that cops get a report if someone has been wrongly held up more often? That's actually what I want to know. Then how is that registered? If that works that way, that would be very nice. Although the suffering has already been done, someone has of course already been arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yeah, no. The question is, of course... Mr President, if you and you, Mr Van Nispen, approve of it, then I will first take up the following question from Mr Van Nispen: what is the point of profiling? You'll start with that. The police must rely on objective facts and circumstances. That could be deviant behavior or a car with a suspicious license plate. Then it may be that ethnicity can play a role in the description of a perpetrator profile, but never in a professional checkup. Do you understand this? So you can have an unsub profile, where you say: we have the description of a man with a certain appearance and more of that kind of thing. However, it must not be the case that the police say in checks: we are going to check people with a certain appearance and colour. I don't want it mixed up, if you know what I mean. You can't use it hidden either. Here's what this means. If a person is held up, there must be objective facts and circumstances. At this point, that app can confront agents with the question of whether they are actually dealing with objective facts and circumstances. If someone's been arrested a lot, you have to conclude: hey, but why am I doing that? I hope this is a bit of an answer. In the end, it shouldn't happen again at all. That's the point, of course. We just need to get it out of the cops where it's still playing. I am truly convinced that this is not the case with the vast majority, but it should not be present with all the agents. Of course, an app like that could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u144	I hope so, too, because I don't have to. We are very much in agreement on that. That's a long time since we've had that discussion. The question I did have has not yet been fully answered. Does that app also work in such a way that a policeman on the street can see that the person for him has been arrested six times before and that this turned out to be wrong afterwards? If that can work that way, it can contribute. I am asking this because I would be very much in favour of such a mobile application. At the same time, however, I hear from the police officers that that is the other side of the story: in certain regions additional demands are imposed by the local authority on agents, for example, in addition to that application also an additional form. Then at some point you have three or four different registration ways. Of course, that drives cops crazy. Then it doesn't serve purpose anymore. Then you'll spend more time filling out forms than checking. Once again, if this app works well, it is absolutely good, but then we should not add to it all kinds of other administrative acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u145	No. I hear that now, and I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that I am going to go after it, because whatever the subject is, that is an administrative burden increase, whereas with MEOS we are not going to have it anymore. With MEOS you can just check a certain license plate on the spot and then you can take a certain action on it or not. At the moment when you first have to fill out six more forms for that check, I agree with Mr Van Nispen that things are going completely wrong. I'll figure out this point, which I'm not familiar with. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Simons asked me if I wanted to make any consequences for discrimination. I was just talking about it. I don't know if you heard that, Mrs Simons, because you weren't there yet. The corps leadership has promised me that on the basis of the Ombudsman's report they will really work towards greater clarity and clarity about sanctions. I would like to repeat that sanctions which are more in line with the provisions of the Treaty, let me put it this way: the social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u146	Before I put my question to the Minister, I would like to point out that I do not think your actions, Mr President, are worthy of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u147	Thank you, but it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u148	I assume you're aware of that. My question to the Minister is about these consequences. So do I understand that these consequences will be formulated on the basis of the report to be published?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yes. The chief of police, the leadership, has said that we must get to work on those recommendations that the National Ombudsman comes up with. One of the points is that you need to have a clearer and more unambiguous sanction policy for these situations. I mentioned the unfortunate example of that Rotterdam app group. The sanction imposed there also had to do with the fact that there was already a whole history. Of course, that can always happen, but it shouldn't. If the manager had initially known by a very clear directive "I should not have solved this in that way', the manager could have said: I am going to move on now. Then you get much more, also for others, an image of how that is looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u150	May I ask how that relates to a very clearly defined...? There is no sanction, but there is a value judgment in the first article of our Constitution, because it says that this behaviour is simply forbidden. Is that going to be taken into account, or are we really just going to base ourselves on a report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u151	Well, look, such a report contains facts and in such a report also hears and hears and things like that are displayed. A complaint committee will then draw conclusions on the basis of the facts. In this case, it was the committee led by Professor Cohen. One of the conclusions is that there has been discriminatory behaviour, at least in that case. And discriminatory behaviour is, let me put it this way, almost the text of Article 1 of the Constitution. That is what we need to name and we need to be very clear about that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Ellemeet asked me how I'm going to take away the cause of that weapon possession. That is a little bit and a little bit not in this debate. It is in this debate, because, of course, this is also about preventive measures. These must be proactive measures aimed at young people at risk. My colleague Dekker and I, together with a number of mayors, police, prosecutors and youth workers, have drawn up an action plan for this. That action plan... I can give the exact location in the second term and when it went to your Chamber. I would certainly like to discuss this with your Chamber, but that may be a little too much outside the context of this debate. I still have the question here: I had lost him for a moment from Mrs Belhaj about the Proco app and how we deal with that information. That information only comes from the police base system. It comes up automatically and therefore there is no question of storing additional information. I have already said a few things about the measures we are taking to prevent the profiling of ethnicity. Mrs Simons asked about the state of play regarding the talks with the Black Lives Matter movement, to which I referred in my six-monthly report. I myself had a follow-up discussion on this as a ruler at my ministry, in which I spoke mainly about how we can now raise awareness, not only of the presence of discrimination, but also of the commandments to get to work on it. I'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u153	I'm very happy to hear this, especially since I didn't specifically mention the Black Lives Matter movement. I did ask about the reports of Amnesty International and Control Alt Delete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u154	I have that in my answer. We have also spoken with Amnesty International, which I am speaking with all the time, and Control Alt Delete. Those are strong talks, and they will continue to be strong talks, as long as we have not completely eliminated discrimination in society and also in the police. I think that's the way it should be, because I still think we should really get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mrs Simons on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u156	Here too, we agree. We really need to get rid of it. My question was, as I usually try to do, very concrete. What happens to the recommendations contained in Amnesty International's report? Are they being followed? The same applies to the recommendations made by Control Alt Delete. Are they being followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yes. Well, followed up... I think I have to say that the Corps leadership is working on that to an important extent. I do not know exactly by heart, but there is also a recommendation between which we do not know whether that is really the best way to deal with it. But the talks are meant to discuss with each other the recommendations they have made and then to take action there. I would also like to tell you that I assume that there will be another conversation about the end of October. That is not yet planned, because this minister might have used another time budget for the formation process. You never know. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Van Nispen asked me how I'm going to get a more diverse corps now that there's a job vacancy summit. This gives me the opportunity to assure Mr Van Nispen, who is very critical of me in this respect, that the job vacancy summit does not apply to the operational strength of the police. With that influx, the police are really focusing on more diversity. For example, the police have agreed on a higher target for cultural diversity for new influxes for the four major Randstad units, 35% in 2025. In order to achieve this objective, we are also exploring how to adapt the recruitment and selection of these units, because that is what really needs to be done. Mr President, I come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr Van Nispen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u159	Maybe we can't completely discuss the desirability of a job summit tonight. That is not really the subject of this debate. You can't completely deny that a job vacancy summit, even if it is with the non-operational strength, is particularly unfortunate when you look at the state of the police, also knowing that people in the non-operational strength sometimes flow to the operational strength. So that has everything to do with diversity. If we want diversity of influxes, then I cannot declare or justify any job vacancies to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u160	As far as I am concerned, Mr Van Nispen and I have always had fruitful discussions in the past with Mr Van Raak about police FTEs and the need for a structural increase in the police. Structural money has become available for this in 2017. I've notified your room at the end of June. It was unfortunate that Mrs Michon-Derkzen's oral question could not continue because I was abroad. I have already stated at the end of June that there is a certain shortage of the police for this year, some of which is due to the fact that the non-operational strength was actually budgeted for an already more declining formation. This has nothing to do with not wanting to fill vacancies and such, but with how the division between operational and non-operational would be. The police are still working on that. Moreover, this deficit will be reduced to zero this year. But back now. The police have a strong interest in increasing operational strength in the vacancies. It is therefore very difficult now to assume non-operational people from whom some, but not all, might be able to flow operationally, whereas there is too much non-operational strength and vice versa we need a lot of expansion of operational strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u161	This is not quite the subject, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u162	No, Mr President, but you can of course say that operational strength is mainly about checks on the streets. Well, then we're back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u163	Please don't help Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u164	I hear it again. I don't make myself loved by you. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final point. Mr Bishop asked: can the Minister indicate whether proactive checks and preventive searches are now being carried out too much as ethnic profiling? I sent a letter to your Chamber at the beginning of February 2020, in which I explained, on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, that preventive searching is a means of control which, provided that the application is random and without regard to the individual, is legitimate. I want to say that out loud. If we were to search preventively based on ethnicity, that would be completely out of the question. Period. Profiling as such on other grounds is admissible. Think about it based on behavior or locations and the like. You will find all this in that letter from early February 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes, Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u166	It is a question of what the Minister said a while back, so if the Minister wants to finish this block first, I'd like to wait too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u167	I have one more comment and then I'm done, so maybe we can do this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u168	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u169	I told the Minister that it is good that this application is there and that you can see what people are asking and asking for, but I would actually like to know if it is being kept up to date. Is there a gathering of who does that and why someone does that? That is relevant: not that you request a license plate, but what is the reason to get a license plate. That gives the Minister the information to think: hey, this is someone who has now arrested a person because he or she has very nice curls. That was actually the reason for my question. Do you have that information? What do you do with it? Could you say something about that? Do you have to want to share it, or does it just mean that cops don't do searches anymore, for example, because you can find all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u170	No, but again... I have answered this question anyway. I said that that Proco app contains information from the basic systems of the police, so information that's already there. It's gonna come up automatically. So you run a name and then it comes up from the basic data. If there's no information, nothing will come up. Therefore, no additional information is stored or additional information is used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u171	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u172	I'm not sitting here with the privacy cap looking at it. If everyone uses that app, it's interesting to see what information they're asking for and if there's a reason they're asking for it. If you register it "I've noticed that there was a lot of unrest on the street and that's why I pulled this and this car's license plate and I've kept these people" and so on, is that information that's interesting to the minister. My question is: what does he do with this information and exactly what is being processed? Otherwise it's a nice app, but it doesn't really help you in terms of ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u173	Well, I disagree with that last one. But first of all, I am not doing anything with that information and I wouldn't want to do that either, because I wouldn't think it fair to my police if I recorded what they are doing in the MEOS app and then draw conclusions from it. That MEOS app is there for all kinds of reasons. I would strongly and passionately recommend to your Chamber, especially those who have police in their pockets: go with the police in emergency aid. I think some MPs have done that before. Then you can see how much this MEOS app helps, also to prevent situations where a single person accidentally thinks of something that looks like ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u175	I thank the Minister for the answer to the questions. The last question was actually about the purity of the definition of "ethnic profiling." My question is whether the Minister is sure that preventive search and proactive control will not be dismissed as ethnic profiling. How does the Minister distinguish that? Is there a clear picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u176	I know that about myself. Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u177	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u178	I don't mean it pedantic when I say I wrote a letter about it then and then. You want to believe that it has been prepared for my ministry by many more expert lawyers. That letter is very clear: preventive search without any further checks on e.g. stitch weapons.... is legitimate, provided that certain conditions are met. You can read them directly in the judgments of the European Court of Justice. That's just a police activity. It's only going to be something that can't be done at the moment when you're going to base that preventive search on ethnic profiling, when you say: we're going to check for stabbing weapons, I don't know what, Caucasian men over 60 with glasses. That's ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u179	That's the theory, I get all that. That's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u180	No, this isn't the theory, this is the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u181	Yeah, but let's get to the practice. When there is a reproach of ethnic profiling, how is it found that it is also about ethnic profiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u182	When you find that people are being searched preventively, for example because of the location there is no justification... Or couple, a group exhibits behavior. I mean that a group of people, let me put it in a very general way: they are not young people, but just a group of people going through a mall and destroying them. You can imagine the mall being shut down by the police and also being searched for weapons. That is a second objective ground; you must have it. Let me go back to the fact that there is often a reverse burden of proof in the case of discrimination. That is relevant when the minutes show that there is no objective basis. So if there is reason to suspect on the basis of facts that there has been a discriminatory ground, then it is ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u183	The Minister was in the process of finalizing the reply. I had the impression that he was a question from me. It was just one question, by the way, that was forgotten. I asked for a position to be taken on the observers in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u184	I've got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u185	We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u186	I wanted to end with that; let me do that. I also wrote this answer myself, so it comes from the heart. Mr. Chairman. I begin with the fact that this was a decision of the Amsterdam city council. That's what I'm told. I do not think I need to explain to you that I have no control over this in our beautiful decentralised democracy. I can only say two things, and that's how I started: I have every confidence in the professionalism and honesty of my policemen, and I wouldn't have needed to put observers in there myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u187	I would like to ask the Minister, and that is in fact in line with what Mr Van Nispen asked earlier this evening, if he can tell us how far the responsibility lies with this beautiful local democracy that we have in this country. In this case, the Amsterdam City Council has said that this specific action is what we want with observers. Moreover, there have also been other preventive search operations in Amsterdam without observers. So it has not been a generic decision of the Council. But is that what the board is about? I would like to ask this Minister, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u188	I am not about a decision by the Amsterdam City Council. It is not up to us to say: we think it is appropriate to place observers in police checks or inspections. That's a decision of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u189	I understand the Minister's answer, but it is in line with what Mr Van Nispen asked, namely whether you can say as advice: a good idea, those apps and e-mails, but we still have an extra form. What else can you ask for as counsel? Perhaps you could take that question with you when you dive into the forms, which Mr Van Nispen also asked for. As a former councilman from The Hague, I also know that discussion. It was fed there. I am also aware of the request for additional forms to be sent to the Hague police. I think it is important that you clarify from your ministry how far the competence or responsibility extends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u190	With all due respect to Mrs Michon-Derkzen, I understand the critical approach. But if I'm going to say what I think the city council should do, I'm going to say something that I have to do, that I'm going to tell the city council what to do. And I shouldn't say that, if you can still follow me. Something else is that we can see in the Police Act and in all kinds of other legislation what the competence of the Chief of Police and the Minister is and what local authority is about. For example, local authority is not about police equipment. For the viewers, confusingly enough, that's the case with the boas, but that's what the DA's office has control of. Let's have that discussion another night, I can see from your face. Let's go back. What is really important is that this is something that I would like to give an answer to, of which I say: it is free for local politics and local authority to say, provided that it does not interfere with the work or makes it impossible, that they want to have observers on something. We can talk about this for a long time, but I thought this. Understandably, I always get the advice of administration and politics to be careful, but my thought was to just say out loud: listen, I wouldn't do it that way. That's not because a policeman might not even do it wrong or that this would be 100% excluded. No, it's also that you trust your people and say, "If you're gonna do that, you report and I'm gonna assume you're gonna do it right."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u191	Clear. Mr. Azarkan. And then I have Mrs Simons and then you, Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u192	I would like to go back to Mrs Belhaj's question about what happens to those dates. The Minister indicated that he doesn't do very much with it. Is it true that he himself has made a request to see if the CBS could provide insight into the extent of ethnic profiling on the basis of data from the Proco app and how effective the measures are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yeah, that's right. But then I may have misunderstood the question. Then I am sorry, I say through the chairman and past Mr Azarkan to Mrs Belhaj. Then I misunderstood that question. 'Cause I'd like to see if we can get along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u194	That is what Mrs Ollongren writes in response to questions that Mr Van Baarle and I have asked. In it she writes that you and they have jointly commissioned to see how you could use that information and how you could use the data to measure the measures. I thought I'd clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u195	Is the Minister coming up with an answer or response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u196	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u197	Oh, sorry, it looked like you were looking up something. Mrs Simons, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u198	I have not yet heard the Minister on the point I raised about banning ethnicity and nationality in the case of risk profiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u199	Excuse me, excuse me, could you repeat that? I was just checking the CBS question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u200	I understand. I asked you why we do not immediately and immediately stop violating the first article of our Constitution by allowing ethnicity or nationality to be part of risk profiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u201	I have understood your first-term comment in such a way that you say that ethnic profiling must cease as of tomorrow. I agree. Here is the practice of some people, I say very emphatically, more rebellious than you, and at least I, for I am responsible, would like to. I am not saying this gratuitously, but a great deal of discrimination has just been learned. People have started to think discriminatoryly at some point for whatever reason. It's unruly matter to really get that out of the way. Especially with the police, but also elsewhere, we have to do everything we can. We have to keep naming it. If I come back to you in six months' time and say that the 4% knowledge of the framework of action is now 4.5%, I understand that the tone of the debate will be rather grim and sharp. We've got to make some real progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u202	All discrimination, hatred, intolerance and xenophobia have been learned. Having said that, we agree that we very much want it to end tomorrow. Maybe that's a utopian thought. One way of achieving this is to explicitly and clearly prohibit the use of ethnicity and nationality in risk profiles. We can stop doing so tomorrow, even if not all ethnic profiling has been arranged by the police or any other institution or individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u203	Yes. Then you start with Article 1 of the Constitution, and you say: any activity contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution is simply not allowed. "Unauthorized" is a bit of my legal language, but I mean that is simply not allowed in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u204	So you can also say in ordinary human language: ash or tomorrow we explicitly prohibit, without reservation, the use of ethnicity and nationality in risk profiles. Excuse my English.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u205	I don't know if you heard my beginning in the hallway, because you weren't there at the time, but I said about my sixth sentence: ethnic profiling is unacceptable, period. So it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u206	I don't use the term "ethnic profiling." I am talking about risk profiles, where ethnicity and nationality are explicitly taken into account as a criterion. I am convinced that the Minister understands my question, which I have now asked four times in different forms. I'm not asking if he can make sure no one discriminates tomorrow. That is really impossible, especially with a parliament in which the most horrible xenophobic texts about the Netherlands are poured out every day. But we can be quite explicit, I say 'we', but I mean to ban the Minister from nationality and ethnicity being part of risk profiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u207	Yes, in many situations it is. As far as nationality is concerned, some time ago the judge made another decision in the case of the Eastern European registration numbers, which you may know. But I understand Mrs Simons' point very well. She says: if you are very consistent, it should never play a role if, for example, you set a risk profile for bank robberies or I don't know. We are currently studying the ruling that has been made on the Eastern European registration case, to put it that way. I think we should have a definitive answer to that. I would like to assure your Chamber that I will present a detailed analysis of this this autumn. Let me at least say this, because you can now expect me to do so: I do not think that ethnicity should play a role in policy or direction in the services under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u208	I would like to thank the Minister very much for this clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u209	Fine. Mrs. Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u210	I was not looking at Mr Michon's question about the decision-making in the city council in Amsterdam, because that is a political opinion. Apparently, she doesn't take it so close to local democracy. I was looking at the Minister's answer. In principle, he also makes the ruling on a council here, including the city council of Rotterdam, which tries to resolve a security issue with each other and tries to do justice to concerns of Amsterdammers. Eventually, they come out together with the police to set up civilian observers. And the minister is here proclaiming that this is a motion of censure on the police. If he didn't mean to, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. The civilian observers aren't new. I do not know if the Minister is aware that we introduced this ten years ago in Rotterdam; a great success. Citizen observers are very often taken into account for checks. With this the police want to show: come and see what beautiful organisation we are; with this we want to do justice to that transparent organisation, an organisation on which every Dutchman can rely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u211	I don't know where the excitement comes from, I have to admit it. I have said that this is a decision of the city council, whether it is the Rotterdam city council, in which Mrs Kathmann sat, or the Amsterdam city council. That's not what I'm talking about. I also said that I have every confidence in my policemen; pay attention to the word "mine"; I stand in front of them and behind them. I have said that I do not think it would be necessary to include observers when a particular task is imposed. Mrs Kathmann thought that was a good idea, and the Amsterdam city council thought that was a good idea. But, yes, we disagree on that in practice. Let me put it this way. The situation is a bit different, but if an intern was going to make a plea of mine, I wasn't constantly behind it and "no, no" shaking or I don't know what. That's a certain trust you give to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u212	You say the word "confidence" again. I asked you the question: was your ruling a motion of... Are you saying that setting up the vigilantes by the city council of Amsterdam is actually a motion of distrust against the police? 'Cause that's actually what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u213	No. Well, claiming... ministers are generally so that they give an explanation or defend a statement. "Proclaiming," I don't think I've done that for the past four years. I'm going back anyway, Mr. Chairman. I'm telling you how I stand behind and in front of the police and how I really have a great deal of faith. I do not deny that things have not gone well with regard to ethnic profiling. Things still don't go well here and there. That "here and there" should not be trivialized. That's what we need to keep working on. But in the meantime, I have really, really convinced, a very big trust in the police. That's how I started, and that's how I ended up with these last interruptions. I have always said that I am not about what an Amsterdam city council or a Rotterdam city council decides and what its considerations are. I told you what mine are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u214	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u215	That's not an answer to my question. The entire city council of Amsterdam also has enormous confidence in Amsterdam's police system. That's not why those vigilantes were appointed. And that's exactly what we're debating tonight. The concern of ethnic profiling, which we are discussing here, is not a motion of censure against the police. It's a case the police want to solve, too. The municipality of Amsterdam has appointed these vigilantes, precisely to make that device even more transparent. The police say, "Come and take a look at us." It has done so above all to give every citizen of Amsterdam the confidence that the police are doing an enormous amount of good work. You always answer 'I have faith in the police', but the city council of Amsterdam may have even more confidence in the police than you do in the appointment of those vigilantes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u216	I don't know. I don't have to compete for that. Mrs Kathmann is getting things mixed up again, because she is talking about ethnic profiling again. But this is about preemptive search. That's a lot different. The point is that preventive search is just allowed. I just explained that in a small debate with Mr Bishop. So I don't see why it's always drawn to ethnic profiling. It could be. When people start profiling ethnically, it's ethnic profiling. Whether it's searching, keeping people standing on the tram or I don't know what: it's just forbidden. I do not understand the point, Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u217	I see we're done with this. The point is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u218	We have a debate on ethnic profiling. The vigilantes are there to counter that. That's the only reason they've been appointed. I'm not an intern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u219	I don't know, but, yeah, I'm being asked to judge city councils. I've always said I'm not gonna give it to you. That's not up to me. Okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u220	Clear. We're going to the second term. Thank you, so far. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Mr. Azarkan. I call Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to report on a half-yearly basis on the analysis of data collected by the Proco app regarding professional checks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce binding rules on reasonable suspicions so that powers for controls, surveillance and investigation can only be carried out on the basis of objective criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the national police will increasingly use new technologies including artificial intelligence in the performance of their tasks;]] [[Whereas the use of Al for predictive policing may lead to discrimination and ethnic profiling;]] [[Whereas the current legislation is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a legal framework for the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms by national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1036]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1037]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1038]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u222	Finally, Mr President. Can the 50% ambition level, which is four or twelve times more than at present, not be 60%, so that it becomes a six? At least you'll pass and then you'll succeed. Really last but not least: on September 22, I think that the Minister who mistakenly forgot to do so will rule on the use of nationality and ethnicity in the trial against the KMar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you. Is Mrs Ellemeet still here? I don't see her anymore, so she'll be home. Mrs. Kathmann is dropping her second term. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u224	Ethnic profiling is a form of discrimination and is therefore wrong. We need to tackle it and do what's effective. So I also hope that we will hear what the use of this Proco app is really going to do. But above all, we should not do what is not effective and approach agents generically with distrust. I welcome the fact that we are going to see what local, extra demands are made on the police and how meaningful and effective that is. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant financial deficits in the police and a job vacancy summit has been set up;]] [[Whereas if there is no new influx, the desire of a more diverse corps is also not met, which is one of the measures to counter ethnic profiling;]] [[noting that the capacity problems in the police are already very high and that a job vacancy summit does not contribute to more time and space for professional action, the use of apps and training;]] [[calls on the government not to introduce a job vacancy summit with the police and to reverse the current job vacancy summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1039]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mr. Chairman. It's always annoying for people who have to do the work to hear them talk about in the Chamber. In this case, that will certainly be the case for a lot of policemen who work with a lot of love and passion in the Netherlands every day to keep the Netherlands safe and make it safe. So I'm saying once again that I realize that it's annoying sometimes to hear you talk about your organization like that, but you guys are doing a great job. We are talking here today about individuals within the police who are ethnically profiling, find discrimination and racism normal, and that is not normal. And that's not normal at all when you're a cop. It's just not normal anywhere. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment to return to the Ombudsman's recommendations in a letter. Because of the confusion that has arisen about the app, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to send a supplementary letter on this matter. The behavior of agents or ethnic profiling by agents could be removed from that app. How exactly does that work? What information does he get from that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you. Then Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u227	Mr. Chairman. The evening is still young for parliamentary concepts, but I dare to conclude that the right-hand side of this Chamber has not shown itself on its best side today. We have had two emotional debates: one on threatening journalists and one on ethnic profiling in the police. Those two have a connection, because they are about the safety of all Dutch people. In both cases, we must do everything in our power to ensure that everyone in our society can participate and be supported and protected by the police. And because I know that it is so much appreciated by the police and here in the Chamber if you give a compliment once in a while, I will repeat the compliment I have already given to the police: I have been able to use police services with great gratitude in recent years, when they had to protect me from the consequences of extreme right-wing framing and so on. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ethnic profiling is a violation of the first Article of our Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of ethnicity and nationality as risk factors in the formulation of risk profiles, including police and investigation services, and to pay particular attention to digital means used to track citizens, such as discriminatory algorithms and software,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1040]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u228	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[speaks out against Amsterdam's practice of using civilian observers in preventive search by the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1041]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u229	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Amsterdam, civilian observers are used to control preventively searching agents;]] [[noting that the police unions strongly opposed this;]] [[Whereas the use of civilian observers is a vote of no confidence towards agents;]] [[Whereas this practice seriously impedes the work of agents;]] [[calls on the government to communicate to the municipality of Amsterdam that the use of civilian observers in the preventive search by agents is inappropriate and undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1042]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u231	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. I'll suspend for four minutes, no, for two minutes and 30 seconds, that's enough, I'll hear you, and then we'll listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u232	That was 2 minutes and 30 seconds. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. I have a few questions. I'll answer that in a minute. Firstly, Mr Azarkan's motion on the Proco app. That motion, in part No. 1036, I'm judging Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1037 on binding regulations for reasonable suspicions. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. In criminal law and case law, of course, what is and is not a reasonable suspicion is taken into account. Nor should we lay down this in binding government regulations. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u234	There is a question from Mr Azarkan on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u235	The point is that it has not been properly processed. Of these, the College of Human Rights says that this is therefore difficult to test. That would actually need tightening up. So I'm gonna give that to you after all. I am sorry that this motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u236	Look, we've found tonight, I thought with almost everyone here, that ethnic profiling is contrary to the Constitution and that it shouldn't. Period. If you then ask what binding regulation is for reasonable suspicions, you have to complete all those cases when they are or are not. We in the Netherlands have just the case law to check that against the rules of criminal law and public order. This should not be made binding on the government. I do not think that is our role as part of the separation of powers. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u237	Very briefly, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u238	I'll keep it on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u239	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (29628, No. 1037). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1038 on artificial intelligence. I refer to the policy framework of the Cabinet and the specific letter of 10 July 2021. It is handled extremely carefully. I actually had in mind that Mr Azarkan might be able to hold this motion until that letter of 10 July was debated with your Chamber. That seems much more sensible to me. Let me see if Mr Azarkan is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u241	He's coming forward now. Then he can tell me himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u242	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u243	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u244	In that case, she's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u245	Then there is Mr Van Nispen's motion for a resolution on the request for a non-election. But the impression is given that it is generic. There is no job summit for operational personnel. I have already said it, but I would like to emphasise that. For non-operational personnel, we must do so, because we are above the formation, as I wrote to you at the end of June. It's just gonna have to be phased out. I need the motion in part no. 1039 is therefore not recommended, at least as it has now been formulated. Then the motion to part No. 1040 by Mrs Simons. In the light of the ruling that comes on 22 September and the letter that I have promised, I would like to ask whether that motion can not be held until we have discussed both further with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u246	That is a reasonable request in itself, because there will be another debate. At the same time, I have just heard the Minister explicitly say that he actually agrees with the thrust of the motion, namely that we should not use ethnicity and nationality in risk profiles. Is this request to hold the motion on the algorithms, as the Minister just said to Mr Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u247	No, I said that I do not think ethnicity and nationality should be guiding, decisive or guiding in the policy of my investigation services. The point is that that ruling on nationality is in there. I said that on 22 September there will be a ruling on the Marechaussee, to which Mr Azarkan referred. I think that, from where we stand, I should show you what the background is. This also has to do with the teachings of the European Court of Justice in the field of objective justification. I would like to discuss this with your Chamber because I simply want to define with each other how far such an objective justification can go. So I don't want to get out of it. I just want to have the debate and tell you when that is going to happen. So I hope you can still hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u248	I admit that the letter, four weeks after 22 September, provided that there is a ruling, is actually in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u249	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I will continue with the motion, but I would like to say that I have actually heard the Minister say that I am not allowed to read the Acts. He didn't use terms like "it shouldn't be steering, it shouldn't be leading." If that is the starting point, also for the debate we are going to have in due course, then I will hold the motion for a resolution for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u250	Ethnic profiling is not allowed. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u251	We're not gonna start over, but thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u252	At the request of Mrs Simons, I propose her motion (29628, No. 1040). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mr. Chairman. Then there were two motions by Mr Eppink. On the motion in part No. 1041 I'm not going. That's a statement from the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 1042 Mr Eppink asked the government to tell the municipality of Amsterdam that the use of civilian observers in the preventive search by agents is inappropriate and undesirable. Then I almost dare not look at Mr Kathmann, because I simply say: I am not going to do that. That's not up to me. I'm not getting involved in that either. So, dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u254	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his long-term presence in this beautiful new building. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-09-tweedekamer-9.u255	Next Tuesday we will vote on the motions.
