ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35349, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Law in connection with the further strengthening of the victim's position in the criminal proceedings, in short the Act extending victim's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to begin by congratulating my colleague, Mr Hiddema, but I see that he has left the Chamber again. So let's just start the debate. A preliminary remark. As a lawyer, I'm... it's a little noisy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u4	May I ask for some rest in the Chamber? Go ahead, Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u5	Maybe the time can be re-enabled. A preliminary remark. As a lawyer, I specialize in providing legal aid to victims of serious violence and sexual crimes. As such, I'm a member of the Langzs attorney network. This concerns legal aid in individual cases. I do not work for an organisation that deals with victim rights at political or policy level, nor do I have an interest in that. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a bill that bears the working title of the Enlargement Act on Victim Rights. The legislative proposal contains a number of provisions that actually extend those rights, a number of proposals that may contribute to this but raise questions of effectiveness and feasibility, and at least one measure that restricts the rights of suspects under the pretext of extending victim rights. My group cannot escape the impression that the obligation to appear is an expression of muscle language in the direction of suspects packaged as something that would extend the rights of victims. That is a dangerous trend in our view. Both suspects and victims deserve proper treatment and a fair trial. It's not up to them to play each other. Although some victims and relatives may want the defendant to be locked up for life without trial, that is not a legal wish to be respected. And they know it, too. It is important to convey to everyone the message that everyone's rights are respected in criminal proceedings. Restricting the rights or freedoms of suspects is not the same as strengthening or extending the rights of victims. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction I walk past the different parts of the law. The extension of speakers to foster and step-parents and other non-blood-linked members of the family is, in my view, only to be supported by my group. We do wonder whether the ever-expanding exhaustive list in the law is the most desirable form of the right to speak for next of kin. The fact that the list is exhaustive means that judges do not feel free to give the right to speak other than those mentioned, even if there is clearly a close, personal connection. Has the government considered using a substantive criterion, such as that close personal relationship, instead of a exhaustive list, in conjunction with the possibility for the court to limit the number of persons entitled to speak? The protection of the victim's privacy in the case documents is important to my group. We therefore call on the Minister to make haste with the AMvB to implement this provision and to strike a balance between effective protection of the victim and its feasibility by the Public Prosecutor. I note, however, that the absence of the possibility of enforcing this protection of privacy is a matter of real concern to us. Many victims' rights are not enforceable and there is no sanction for non-respect of those rights. For example, it is still difficult for victims to access and obtain copies of the criminal record at an early stage. That makes it difficult to assess whether you can add information to it. There is no procedure to enforce access and copy. Does the Minister recognise that the non-mandatory nature of victim rights is a factor? And does he see any possibility of doing anything about this? I'm getting to the next part of the law. If a principal does not receive a copy of the declaration, the confirmation of the declaration shall state why not. The explanatory statement states that this statement of reasons must be tailored to the case. However, in response to our written questions, the government replied that the explanation does not have to be entirely adapted to the facts of the case, but that, for example, it is sufficient to provide an explanation that the victim is also a witness in the case in question and that a copy of the declaration cannot be provided for the sake of investigation. With this answer, the government makes this provision a dead letter in advance, because victims are almost always witnesses. And if the search interest doesn't need to be motivated further, it's a death doer who can always be used; I'm looking forward to the standard letters again. I assume that this minister does not want to produce dead letters, but significant legislation. That's why I'm gonna try again. Can we assume that this law is intended to change something, that in principle victims of sex cases will also receive a copy of their declaration and that only exceptional and justified exceptions will be made? Mr. Chairman. I come to the appearance of the provisionally attached suspect of serious facts in the matter of substance and judgment. This obligation of appearance is argued by the claim that the victim has an interest in the presence of the suspect. However, this is not supported, not by research data and not by the position of Victim Aid Netherlands, based on their contacts with victims. Only the Federation of Survivors Victims of Violence was in favour of this obligation to appear. The need for survivors, or at least those who have organised themselves, may be different from the need of those who have themselves been victims. Has that been investigated? And has the obligation to appear been considered to apply only to completed life crimes? The answer to the written questions shows that there is no quantitative data available on the problem of the obligation to appear. It is not known how often the right to speak is exercised, how often suspects are or are not present and what victims think of it. The government says that this will be taken into account in the review of the law, but that seems to us to be the opposite world. You make a law to solve a problem and you're not going to evaluate a law to see if there was actually a problem. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. And is the practical usefulness of the proposed obligation of appearance not limited, since the court can decide to waive the obligation of appearance and therefore has the last word? We see this as a small light at a time when there are also the necessary legislative proposals coming along in which the judge no longer has any discretion, but we wonder whether it will not become symbolic legislation. Finally, on this point. In response to our written questions, the Government has admitted that the bill contains an omission, now that no exception is made to the obligation to appear for minor suspects under Article 345 (2). The government has already agreed to fix this. Has a bill been found that takes this on board? Can the Government promise that the appearance obligation will not enter into force until this necessary repair has taken place? Mr. Chairman. I come to the right to speak of victims or next of kin at the extension sessions TBs and PIJ. The government states that it is important to give a vote to the small group of victims or survivors who need to speak at such a session. The government also states that it is appropriate to consider that a victim should be given the opportunity to express an opinion on the conditions which might reduce a confrontation with a TB-set in the future. However, these are two different things. Insofar as the need to speak in person exists at a TBs extension session, it is likely to be wider than just to say something about the terms and conditions. Can the Minister tell us a little more about the scope of that need? The text of the proposal does not rightly refer to a wide-ranging right to speak, as far as we are concerned, but explicitly restricts it to the conditions that affect the victim or the next victim. My group recognises that it may be important for victims and survivors to be able to express their wishes and needs with regard to these conditions. We are talking above all about a restraining order and a location ban. However, we are not convinced that the right to speak at an extension session is the right way to do this. Victims and survivors shall have the right to speak under the legislative proposal only if the conditions under which the termination of the nursing service may take place are discussed in substance at the renewal session. If there is no discussion of conditions of a possible conditional termination, there is therefore no right to speak. How is this designed in practice? I assume that victims and relatives will not be invited to an extension session by default, as this could lead to a disillusionment with victims and relatives if they are not allowed to speak. But how? Is the Public Prosecutor's Office only when it is foreseen that it will be a conditional termination, invite the victims and next of kin? Or are they not invited by default, and will the hearing be held for summoning victims or relatives if the option of conditional termination is discussed? The latter is suggested this morning by the Attorney General Rinus Otte in an interview with Trouw. And is it really intended that victims and relatives will only be present at the extension hearing during the exercise of the right to speak, or will they attend the entire hearing? And how does the latter relate to the private nature of these sessions and the privacy of the TBs? And also in the light of all this: why was the right to speak chosen for the purpose of expressing the wishes about the conditions? Wouldn't it be much better to instruct the prosecution to take stock of the wishes of victims and survivors with regard to contact and location bans prior to the renewal session, as is already the case with regard to the leave of detention? And in that case, in that way, this could also be done with regard to the binding of conditions, such as a restraining order, to the granting of leave from the TBs by the Ministry of Justice; something that this bill does not regulate at all. Finally. The bill also regulates the right to speak in the event of an adjustment of the probationary period or conditions following a partial conditional conviction, in Article 6.6.19. I can confirm from the practical point of view that something needs to be done on this point, both in terms of informing victims and in terms of giving them the opportunity to express their wishes. At the moment, victims are not informed by the prosecution about the defendant's request to amend the terms of the contract, even if it concerns the location and contact ban. I asked the D.A. about this in a case of mine, and then I got the answer: according to the law, the victim must be informed about the final verdict, Article 51a (1) (g) on the release of the suspect or convicted person, and the protection measures taken in that context, 51a (4) and (5). However, no provision has been made for the victim to be informed of requests to change the terms of a conditional conviction. And the victim is therefore not informed, even if they are conditions of protection for the victim, such as a restraining order. It is certainly desirable for a victim or next of kin to be allowed to express themselves about a change in the conditions affecting his or her interests, but who will inform the victim of the request for such a change? Is the Minister prepared to include this obligation of information explicitly in Article 51a, in addition to the possibility of expressing the wish? Mr. Chairman. My contribution shows that in the proposal we see a number of positive and problematic proposals. We also have the necessary questions. We look forward to the answer with interest, after which we will make a final weighing-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal before us poses a major dilemma for my group, not because the SP does not want to accept it for the rights of victims. We do so with conviction and we have been doing so for a long time, but because this is another law of this Minister for Legal Protection in which he pours a multitude of different changes into one law. In the vote in the Lower House, therefore, the SP indicated that it wished to be deemed to have voted against Article I, parts G to J, L, M and P, on the obligation to appear, a very important part of this law. But in the First Chamber we can only say yes or no to the bill as a whole. This raises the question of whether, in our view, we should allow bad parts of a legislative proposal to gain power of law, no matter how positive we can be about the rest. The appearance obligation is also an important point of principle for the SP group in the First Chamber. I will devote most of my contribution to this. The appearance of a suspect is motivated by an appointment in the coalition agreement. The Minister begins with the explanatory statement. The second paragraph states: "In the first instance, this proposal aims to introduce an appearance obligation for the provisionally attached suspect suspected of a serious sexual or violent crime, a measure announced in the coalition agreement Trust in the future 2017-2021." But there is also a modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which also raises this issue. But the careful treatment of all changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure is apparently too far. Let me quote the explanatory statement again: 'Because of the importance of a speedy implementation of the coalition agreement and the implementation of these measures within this cabinet period, I think it is appropriate to propose these measures separately from the modernisation process'. So that's how the fork sticks in the handle. An expeditious implementation of the coalition agreement, and not the carelessness of the consistent amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, seems to be leading. On that point, I would like a response from the Minister. The obligation to appear in the coalition agreement dates from 10 October 2017. The minister's predecessor had chosen, by letter of 30 June 2017, three months before, to refrain from introducing an obligation to appear, because, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, it had been found that the victim is more concerned with the appearance of the suspect than the victim needs a mandatory appearance. I quote the Minister for Legal Protection, from the explanatory statement: 'The question raised in a number of opinions is why the government's position has changed on this point. The reason for this is that I have rethought the desirability of a duty to appear from different perspectives." So: that I, the Minister for Legal Protection, have rethought the desirability of the obligation of appearance from different perspectives. Does the Minister for Legal Protection understand this correctly? In the last few months when he was Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, his predecessor's position was considered from all perspectives, in case a Minister for Legal Protection came into a new cabinet and he became one? Did he personally ensure that the next passage in the coalition agreement came on 10 October 2017? "An obligation is being imposed on suspects of violent and sexual crimes in custody to appear in court. This contributes to the prevention of repeated crime and increases the sense of crime. However, the victim's desire to do so must always be at the centre." Or does the Minister, in the explanatory statement, make his role much greater than it really was and simply implement the coalition agreement? But then I would say: simply say so, because that is how the Minister evokes the appearance of grandeur over himself. The obligation to appear sounds tough and the fundamental objections of many interested parties have gone into the trash. The police did not even react in substance to the appearance obligation anymore and only referred to what they had already said about it in the consultation on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Others were still concerned about the content. The Judicial Council: "The introduction of an obligation to appear is strongly discouraged." The Consultative Commission on Criminal Law of the Dutch Order of Lawyers: "The ACP advises against introducing the obligation to appear." The College of Attorneys General of the Public Prosecutor's Office: "All in all, this leads to the conclusion that the College advises to delete the proposal for an obligation to appear for the defendant." The Advisory Section of the Council for the Application of Criminal Law and Youth Protection: "On the basis of these considerations, the Section considers the introduction of the obligation to appear to be undesirable." On the other hand, the Federation of Survivors is firmly in favour of the victims of violence. I can certainly understand that. I will come back to that later. Victim support The Netherlands proposes to place the victim's desire at the centre and to oblige some of the detained suspects to be present during the exercise of the right to speak if the victim so wishes. I read this as "no, unless." That's different from the "yes, unless" in the Minister's proposal. And Victim Aid The Netherlands rightly puts the finger on another sore spot, namely that in practice only the operative part is often read out in criminal judgments. Victim support The Netherlands points out that precisely reading the considerations giving rise to the operative part can contribute positively to understanding and processing by the victim. Victim support The Netherlands welcomes the introduction of the obligation to appear for the prisoner at the hearing, but rightly points to the point just mentioned. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. But all the advice to waive the obligation to appear did not lead to a change in the views of the Minister. In addition, implementation seems to have been completely forgotten. We read it yesterday in an interview with a representative of the College of Attorney General. Mr De Boer pointed to it as well. They get two months to get things in order and run it. Two months. Normally it's a year or two, but they're getting two months now. Reading all the reports on the diligence of the implementation, there is more attention to the implementation, all the reports point out I want to know how the Minister points this out. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the cause of this hannes with the right to speak lies in the totally illogical place that the right to speak has been given in our criminal law over the years. It's being exercised against a suspect, not a proven culprit. This inevitably involves innocence. It is artificial and, in my group's view, undermines the purity of criminal proceedings. A potential innocent suspect should not be called a perpetrator. In his explanatory statement, the Minister makes it very clear how inclined this area is. In the explanatory statement, the Minister gives the following reasons why the government agreement he is implementing has been chosen for an obligation to appear: "It is also considered very important that a statement on this matter can be made to the defendant. This can also contribute to special prevention. It has already been pointed out on the occasion of the introduction of the right to speak that hearing the victim may increase the sense of crime on the part of the accused. Listening to the victim's statement may in the case of suspects increase the damage it has caused. In addition, it becomes clear to the defendant that the fact has not only caused damage in an abstract sense, but also experiences and realizes that it involves people of flesh and blood who sometimes suffer the consequences of it for a long time after the crime has taken place and have to learn how to deal with it." If we assume an innocent suspect, what does the Minister of Justice say here? How does the right to speak against an innocent suspect contribute to prevention? How can an innocent suspect's sense of crime be increased by the right to speak? What's an innocent suspect supposed to do with sharpening what damage has been done? How is an innocent suspect supposed to feel that he's done harm to people of flesh and blood? The debt pre-emption will drown. The Minister for Legal Protection must be the guardian of the innocence charge, but he is not in this way. He has been pointed out by many parties, but there is this proposal now. Mr. Chairman. If you really want to strengthen the right to speak and the rights of victims and survivors, my group believes that you should change the classification of criminal proceedings. In my group's view, the right to speak about the act and everything that has brought about it should be addressed to a guilty perpetrator. I made a proposal for this in 2011 in the Lower House, supported by victim organisations. Occasionally, the subject resurfaces, but it has not yet produced any results, not even in what is now being discussed in the run-up to the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I regret that, because it can put an end to the imperfection in our criminal justice. The extension of the right to speak in 2016 has become more and more difficult in our criminal proceedings. With each enlargement, this will become clearer. The Minister then refers to the 2013 WODC report, but the limited right to speak from 2013 has been considerably extended since 2016. If victims and next of kin talk about almost nothing at first, they can talk about almost everything since 2016. That's getting worse and worse. Does the Minister see that, too? Because this is a matter of principle. The Minister replied in the written reply that the investigation showed that a two-stage process may have a number of advantages and that there are disadvantages, such as possible loss of seat capacity and a negative effect on workload and lead times. The legislator then decided in 2013 to refrain from introducing two phases and the government sees no reason to reconsider this decision. I am afraid that the Minister for Legal Protection, whose right of existence lies in monitoring and defending the principles of our legal system, will not go beyond reference to capacity and workload. With that reasoning, you can undermine any principle of law. We stand for our principles. At least, if they fit within the budget. That can't be argumentation, can it? The far-reaching extension of the right to speak in 2016, which has led to the right to speak in criminal proceedings, and the lack of an execution test on a possible two-stage process in practice, for example only in the case of serious crimes of violence and vice, make an update of the 2013 WODC investigation more than desirable for my group, especially in view of the forthcoming renewal of the Code of Criminal Procedure. My question to the Minister is therefore: is he prepared to do so? It is not a question of doing the whole investigation again, but in view of the changes in 2016, the 2013 study deserves an explicit update. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of other points that are still on the agenda. For the sake of clarity, I can say that we can agree with that. We certainly have concerns about the execution. In conjunction with the two months that have now been given, we think that this is far too short. I really think that we should look more closely at the implementation in these areas, as in the case of the right to speak: is that still in the right place or can we do it better? The Minister replied to that in writing, but I do not think that is very convincing. Mr. Chairman. A brief point that affects this debate and that we should also be involved in it is the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. I welcome the Minister's response to the written preparation of the SP's question as to how often this hardness clause has been used since its introduction in 2011 in the Damage Fund Act. This turns out to be 26 times since 2016; unfortunately, there are no figures for this. I asked for this because it was a change; it was an amendment that came from practice. At meetings of associations of relatives and victims, which I visited together with my colleagues Van der Steur and Van Toorenburg, this kind of story emerged. People said: yes, they want to compensate us from the damages fund, but there is no hardness clause and so it is not allowed. That's where it came in. I would advise everyone to visit these meetings in particular. That's where you hear the stories. That's where you can hear where it's pinching. That is the reality and we can do something about it with each other. Mr President, concluding. My group believes that it would be better if the amendments which have now been taken out of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as the Minister himself writes, were dealt with carefully and coherently in one go. If you really have the best interests of victims' rights, care must be taken. In particular, the obligation to appear in this proposal will weigh heavily on my group's ability to support this bill, now that it is all or nothing in the First Chamber. This is inextricably linked to the requested update of the 2013 WODC study. My group's assessment does not say anything, but nothing at all, about the unabated commitment we will continue to make to give victims and relatives a voice and a position. But this must be done within the rules of a careful criminal procedure, whereby the First Chamber must put the quality of legislation first, and an execution that can be carefully prepared by the performers. That is our review framework, no matter how much the position of victims and relatives is at our heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u9	I would like to go all the way back to the beginning of Mr Janssen's speech, where he said that the SP asked for a note in the House of Representatives about the obligation to appear. How am I supposed to see that, technically? The SP voted in favour and requested a note for a part. What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u10	Materially it has no effect, other than that it is extremely clear. In the Lower House you can also apply for a vote by article. There could have been a request for a vote by Rule. If you know that a majority is in favour of the bill, you can go on with the whole circus, but you can also say that we want to be deemed to have voted against that part, because we do not agree with that part. We can't do that here. A few months ago, we figured it out here, and then I found out it's not possible. You say yes to all or nothing here. According to the Rules of Procedure in the Lower House, you do so, in the order of the votes, eventually over the entire bill. That is where the balance was made between the pluses and the mins and then the House of Representatives decided to vote in favour of the whole bill. The group of your party in the Lower House has made a different assessment. We are very struggling with this, because for us, from another role in the First Chamber, it is a very fundamental point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u11	I totally understand that. But imagine now that groups all vote in favour of the bill and then all ask for a note that they are against the obligation to appear. That is, of course, very confusing for people in practice. Has the bill been passed and is the part of that obligation of appearance passed or not? I understand your answer. We simply voted in favour, albeit we find that part very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u12	If there had been a majority that would not have wished for an appearance, the political groups in the House of Representatives would have had to vote by article. If that had been accepted by a majority, they should have applied for it. They could have voted by article and then they could have voted that article away. It would no longer have been part of the overall bill that would eventually be voted on. But that majority wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Hiddema warmly on his swearing in. Mr. Chairman. I want to take you back to 2004. In the First Chamber, as a member of the House of Representatives, I was allowed to defend my own initiative proposal "Speaking rights for victims and relatives." The day before the plenary session, the NVVR published a letter, on 21 April 2004. The judges warned the First Chamber: if the right to speak is introduced, the victim will be given a stand-alone position and then discussions in the courtroom can start. The NVVR thought it better that we didn't hear the victim in court and stated that a written statement would suffice. At the pre-trial stage, the victim was able to talk to the district attorney, and he could report on the victim at the hearing. I won't forget that treatment in the First Chamber. This is where I was put on fire, because why would we endanger order in court? The groups of the CDA, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the SGP therefore voted against my legislative initiative. They thought a right of speech went too far. The written victim's statement that was then experimented with, they found sufficient. Fortunately, of course, there was a majority in favour. It was a limited right to speak. The victim was only allowed to talk about the impact the crime had had on his life. Even though it was a limited right to speak, it was nevertheless a revolution in criminal law, according to the judges, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the lawyer, because not only the defendant, but also his victim would now be considered as a trial participant at the hearing. Mr. Chairman. We've been 16 years. The legal right to speak has worked out well, meets a need and usually does not disturb the order during the hearing. Over the years, however, it has continued to expand. The victim can now also talk about the burden of proof, the question of proof, the type of punishment and the measure of punishment. In addition, in 2016, the group of spokespersons was expanded. What can it actually be, because the opponents of that time are now defenders of a much wider extension and the advocates of the past voted against this bill. Let me take out two groups. GroenLinks in the Lower House cited Germany's example and said that the victim in the Netherlands should also be able to do a "Nebenanklage." The victim in that German model becomes a surrogate prosecutor who can claim punishment against the defendant. The Minister did not want to go that far, I am happy to say, because that would substantially change our system of criminal proceedings, essentially an indictment by the Public Prosecutor on behalf of society and thus also on behalf of the victim against the defendant. Then the fraction of D66. Sixteen years ago, the House of Representatives was a strong supporter of the extension of victim rights. We felt that the victim should be able to speak for himself about what the defendant might have done to him or her. Why would you leave that to the state's attorney's office or the judge? We thought the victim should do it himself. In those years, we had to overcome a lot of fresh headwinds in order, through initiatives, to strike new picket poles in criminal law and criminal proceedings. Think of the extended application of DNA in criminal law, the right to speak for victims, the lifting of the limitation period in the case of murder, an initiative bill that I, together with Mr Rietkerk of the CDA, brought by the Second and First Chambers and criminalising stalking, of beling. However, in considering this bill in the Lower House, the D66 group as the only group in the Lower House voted against, because the group had reservations about the defendant's obligation to appear, both at the substantive sessions and at the hearing. The group felt that the title of the bill did not really cover the load. The law is called "Law Enlargement Victim's Rights," but the defendant's obligation to appear doesn't have much to do with that, the D66 group found in the Lower House. I'll get back to that in a minute. I believe that Mrs De Boer also said that there are a number of things that are covered in this bill. The first part of the bill anchors the moment of the right to speak at the hearing, namely for the requisition. After that, the judge may, if he so wishes, give the Public Prosecutor's Office and the defence the opportunity to respond to the victim's statement. The judge can then, if necessary, ask some questions. It is therefore possible to deliver tailor-made work at the hearing, but the time of the right to speak is fixed. This is clear to everyone in the Netherlands: after the actual treatment and before the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that we support this section. This legislative proposal then extends the circle of spokespersons. With the advent of composite families, there are situations where stepparents or foster brothers and sisters also want to use the right to speak, for example if a family member has been murdered. We agree with the government that the circle can be expanded. An amendment was then adopted unanimously which provides for a general measure of governance to be put forward in both chambers, which determines the privacy sensitive data of the victim from the criminal record. The D.A.'s gonna decide what information that is. One can think of the victim's address, phone number and social security number that reported a crime. The Minister has yet to begin the development of such an AMvB. We are curious to see how this self-justified wish can be implemented in practice without problems, delays and red tape for the criminal case. Victims also have an interest in getting justice done quickly in their case. And that might be at odds with cleaning up the criminal record. Can the Minister explain how the advisory bodies responded to the amendment that was adopted? Is it possible to introduce a sensible approach? I have more questions about this section. Suppose the D.A. pulls some of the victim's data from the file because he thinks that the judge doesn't reasonably need these data to reach a decision. Does the defense know that this data was taken out of the file? Does the state's attorney's office have an information obligation on that? What happens if, for example, it appears that the victim's address is relevant in relation to the scene of the crime? Did the district attorney maybe put the defense at a disadvantage by removing the data? Is this contrary to the principles of equality of arms and a fair trial as referred to in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Is there any way for the defense to challenge the D.A.'s decision to abandon the data? What happens if the judge considers that data relevant? Will that be sanctioned, such as the inadmissibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office? Or, if that's considered too strict, what possibilities does the judge have to redeploy this? Can the judge order the recording of the data in the file? If so, on what legal basis can the court order this? Mr. Chairman. My group is therefore concerned about the feasibility of this part of the legislative proposal introduced by amendment. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can promise that he will really take the time for the actual preparation of the AMvB, that he will first have an impact analysis done in practice and that he will let the two chambers know how much the cleaning up of the victim data file will cost. Can the Minister also promise that the introduction will not be at the expense of the existing budget throughout the criminal justice chain? We could also consider bringing this part of the legislative proposal into force later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u15	Let me ask you something, also from the point of view of practice. Mr Dittrich spoke about cleaning up the dossier. This is also mentioned in the amendment. But isn't it much more about not including data in the file? I think that once the file is there, there is simply linea recta a detention file to the defendant's attorney and therefore also to the suspect, especially if there are serious facts with a provisional detention. Then that's putting the horse behind the cart. So are we not talking much more about making sure that certain data is not included in the file? And are the objections and the questions you then ask still valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u16	Yeah, those questions still apply. Maybe "let go" is a better term. The Public Prosecutor, with whom I have been in contact, tells me that, for example, we have no power at all to say to the probation that they have to retrieve certain data or characteristics of victims from their files, which are returned to the criminal record. "Leave" might be a better word. Finally, as regards the part of the victim's right to speak, I would like to say the following. The legislative proposal provides for the victim to exercise the right to speak during the renewal session of an imposed TBS measure. That right of speech is limited to the conditions directly affecting the victim's interests. This includes the restraining order and the location ban. I have the next question. Does the Minister expect the introduction of this section to lead to delay treatment of TBs cases, as attorney general Otte predicts in his interview in Trouw yesterday and today? In itself, D66 can imagine something about this part of the legislative proposal, although the question arises as to how victims are made clear in advance that their right to speak is limited and that they cannot, therefore, repeat the criminal case. We assume that victim organisations, possibly the victim's attorney, if he or she is in sight, and the Public Prosecutor will take their role in this. Disappointment, disillusionment, with the victim must indeed be avoided. In doing so, the D66 Group assumes that the judges in their judgments and decisions will also respond in substance to important points of dispute raised by the victim. We note from the documents that the Minister does not want to lay down a duty of response in the law, but has declared himself willing to urge the judges to make a proper statement of reasons. We are curious how this develops. Of course, we are going to discuss the whole revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If necessary, we will come back to that. However, we would like to receive a report on the way in which the discussions with the profession take place. In certain cases, for example in sex cases, the police do not give a copy of the report home to the principal of the crime. According to the Minister, the reasoning is as follows in the documents. It may affect the principal, who is often also a witness, in the further handling of the criminal case. The bill stipulates that the rejection of such a copy must be justified in substance. In itself, this statement of reasons is an improvement if it is a genuinely substantive, concrete statement of reasons. But I still find it odd that the principal cannot simply get a copy of his or her declaration. The declaration itself, the story the principal makes with the police, is of course already a certain coloring of that story. This also applies to the way in which the investigating officer writes it down. As a government, it seems that we do not fully trust the principal, the victim, and therefore we do not want to give the report. Can the Minister explain in detail in this debate why people can't get a copy of their own report, of the crime that happened to them? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to comment on the defendant's obligation to appear. The legislative proposal regulates this obligation to appear at the hearing and also at the hearing. As a first reason, the Minister states that the presence of the defendant strengthens the function of the victim's right to speak. A pregnant example of this is the treatment of the criminal case about the death of Nicky Verstappen, the 11-year-old boy who was killed during a summer camp in Limburg in 1998. During the trial last year, his mother and his sister used the right to speak. In doing so, they wanted the defendant, who was later convicted and who then became the perpetrator, to look them in the eye while they told him their suffering. What is important to my group is that the presence of the suspect contributes to the truth finding at the hearing so that the judge, the prosecutor and the lawyer can ask questions to the suspected person who appeared. The judge can make a better judgment of the person of the suspect if he is present. In addition, it is also in the interest of the suspect himself to be present, to see and hear everything, perhaps to give additional information to his lawyer on the spot and to respond to what was put forward during the hearing. And indeed, for many victims who wish to exercise their right to speak, it may be important for the defendant to be present and to hear what the victim's statement means. But should the defendant be forced to come, handcuffed from the house of custody, to the courtroom against his will, while most of the defendants are already coming to court voluntarily? I understand from the Public Prosecutor's Office that it's going to be about 1,500 cases a year. It's going to be a rough estimate of what this part of the bill is about, because most of the suspects are already coming to court voluntarily from pretrial custody. Following the criticism of the advisory bodies, the Minister introduced some amendments to the legislative text. Article 258a (2) now provides for exceptions to the obligation to appear. The main rule has been published, even at the hearing, but exceptions are possible. If the Minister explains that again, I wonder how that will work out in practice. We hear from the legal practice that this might cause logistical problems. When I look at it, of course, we must also do so as First Members of Parliament, as regards the drafting of Article 258a (1), I note that it is extremely difficult to read. The appearance obligation shall not apply to all offences for which the suspect is in remand. Reference is made to Article 51e of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It again contains articles from the Code of Criminal Law which are subject to the right to speak. And then paragraph 1 (b) lists a series of articles from the Code of Criminal Law which are subject to the obligation to appear. In short, this is not really a piece of fine legislation. Will the Minister, when reviewing the entire Penal Code in the separate section on the Victim, the Speaker, better incorporate this into the legal text?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr President, I have been waiting for a moment. The example mentioned by Mr Dittrich is a painful example. So I do not want to talk about Nicky Verstappen's example, but rather about his general approach. I think that's more appropriate. How does Mr Dittrich view the innocence charge when it is said 'we want to be able to look a suspect in the eye, to speak to him; we want to be able to see him'? How does Mr Dittrich see that in relation to my speech on innocence? 'Cause he's still a suspect. My proposal is to move it to a punitive hearing, where the guilty party, the guilty party, can be called upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u18	You are talking about the two-phase structure. Yeah, I find that interesting in itself. In some other countries it is also true that first everything is about the facts. And once it's decided "the suspect did it," there's gonna be a second phase. It's more about the punishment and the kind of punishment. In that case, the right to speak also comes around the corner. But of course that discussion is not today or yesterday; it has been going on for many decades. And she's also being fed when it comes to the public prosecutor's requisition. The D.A.'s accusing someone of something at the hearing. Then it is not at all certain that that person has done it or not. Yet that can create an atmosphere as if someone has already been half-convicted. That is why it is much more about the attitude of the trial. That is what the Minister has done, and I agree with that. It is much more about the attitude of judges, prosecutors and others to show that innocence is there. It is only at the time of the verdict that a person is found guilty and only then can he be identified as a perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u19	Sure, but those are the professionals who were trained for it, who were trained and experienced in it. It is not those who, as a victim, as a next of kin, we hope will get involved once in such a trial about serious sexual and violent crimes. Do I hear Mr Dittrich say that, while we are moving towards a revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he thinks this is an interesting idea in itself? Does he think it would be good to know, through an update, what it would actually mean? It has been said that it could be at the expense of the capacity of the sitting. Does Mr Dittrich find it interesting to think that an implementation test will also clarify what it means, so that we can possibly involve this matter of principle in the discussion on the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u20	Well, of course, that two-stage structure has already been investigated. I hear you're talking about an update right now. You can, of course, ask for an update every few years, but the legal practice itself is well equipped with how our code works and with whatever is in the proposal for the revision of the entire Code of Criminal Procedure. And I would add that if a victim shoots too much out of his or her body at the hearing, the suspect of everything is going to accuse and you name it. Then, of course, we still have the court judge. He can say: this goes too far, I will take the floor because this is not appropriate at the moment. Those are all kinds of possibilities that are already in the law book. Very often this is used, but usually it goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u21	Sure. You can update every few years. But my update is linked to the fact that the right to speak in 2016 is so vastly extended. Because in 2013, when that was investigated, there was a very different right of speech. So my argument is that it is going to be much more severe as we come up with further extension of the rights of the victim. Would it not then be purely to examine whether improvements are possible, if only because of the discussion we are having with each other? Are there any improvements possible? That's something you're looking for in a review, isn't it? That's what you want in the picture, isn't it? We don't have that picture right now by always referring to the investigation that is based on the limited right to speak in 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u22	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u23	I have no objection at all if there are scientists who say: we are going to investigate this again. I do not know the timeline for the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In any case, I do not expect us to discuss this review here in the Upper House before the summer. So this seems to me to be a very good proposal if one way or another it can go a bit right and we can involve all of this. I have no objection to that. Mr President, I will conclude. Because of the corona measures, the courts in the Netherlands had to work a lot with video connections. That was not, moreover, merely a negative assessment by those who had to work with it. After all, there are also advantages. Think, for example, of saving transport movements from the van from the house of custody to the courthouse and the like. I have the following questions to the Minister. What possibilities does the government see to enable remote video or telephobic hearing in this context? And we're talking about the apparition obligation. Is it watered down when the defendant says, for example: well, I'm in the home of custody in Groningen and I don't want to go to the courthouse in Rotterdam, but I would prefer to attend the hearing remotely via a televideo connection? If such a connection can be established in such a case, does the defendant fulfil his obligation to appear? Or does the obligation to appear mean that someone really has to be physically and concretely present in court? That was not quite clear to our group. I'd like to hear an answer to that question. Finally, I would like to say that my group is interested in the Minister's response and answers to our input. Once we have received it, we can think further about what to do about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr Dittrich raises an interesting question: can the obligation to appear be met digitally? Does the D66 Group have a position on this? What is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u26	I'm gonna give you a real lawyer's answer: that depends a little bit on it. But let's say that suspect is far away in a home of custody saying "yes, I do" and that there is no objection to that at the hearing, because the right of interrogation can take place, good answers can be given and there is enough room for the defendant. Then my argument is that that is not contrary to Article 6 because the defendant himself states that he wants to. So there can be a proper process. It gets more complicated, I say immediately, when there are parties that say: no, suspect must really be here, because we think it is important for some reason. That is why I put the question to the Minister and I am very curious to see how he will answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u27	I assume that Mr Dittrich means that the judge can also say as a trial party: I want that suspect in front of me. I have to put it as well as a question, because I have an opinion on it. Doesn't this at all times affect the quality of the interrogation, of the possible reproach, of all those purposes that the investigation has at the hearing when the suspect is behind a screen instead of physically standing against you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u28	Yeah, you could, even if it turns out that when you talk to people in practice, they think about that very nuancedly. The best thing would be if everyone would always show up and it could all be arranged properly. But I can imagine... Suppose you have a case with a confessing suspect. That's evident from the pieces. Of course, the session will still have to take place. Suppose the defendant says, "I'd rather stay in the home of custody." That opinion has been expressed in freedom; all this must of course be guaranteed. I can imagine that being thought of in a nuanced way. None of that is in this bill. What we're discussing is part of the legal history. In the case of further developments on video interviews, we can come back to the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u29	Would that also mean, for example, that we can do this meeting better or as well digitally rather than physically, by analogy with the examination at the hearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u30	I always find it hard to make too many comparisons. There we are talking about a court hearing that is completely enshrined in the Code of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure. That does not apply to us as politicians for the time being. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u31	Well, this session is even enshrined in the Constitution. We have also asked the Council of State for an opinion on the possibility of a digital meeting. That's still complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr President, but I meant more that we are not governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u33	I'm glad you didn't! Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u34	It is a very interesting discussion, but the question is whether it is limited to the defendant with an obligation to appear. I think you can ask a lot more of the main question, for suspects but also for victims. If the attendance at the hearing is particularly desirable in order to guarantee one's rights, unless there is an injunction to bring them in, even if this is true now, shouldn't you actually have to offer the option to carry them digitally by default? If there is an injunction, is it desirable for someone to be there, but outside those cases could it not be a nice intermediate form, both for suspects, but possibly also for victims who find it too exciting to come but would like to say something? Maybe this is, through you, a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u35	In practice, it appears that victims sometimes do not want to be confronted with the suspect but want to do their story, because they want the judge and perhaps other trial parties to hear what happened to them and what they find further on the case. Then it happens that sometimes it goes through a video connection. I am also very curious to see how the Minister will react to this. I raised the question because it was not discussed at all in the House of Representatives. I think it is our job as Members of Parliament to look closely at the legislative proposal, to ask the Minister about it and to weigh the answers in our total weighing-up. One of the other Members has already said that we obviously do not have the right of amendment. So we can only say yes or no. Then it is often about how you weigh all the pluses and all the minuses of the bill and how you come to a total weighing down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u36	I agree. I would just like to say that the hearing of victims is already happening via video, but that this is very rare.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u37	Yeah, okay. It's not a sledgehammer; it's true. I had come to the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Recently, I was able to accompany a victim of a serious violent crime at the hearing. An employee of Victim Support was also present. I was impressed by the professionalism and kindness of all professionals towards the victim. And I've experienced how important such a victim statement was to the victim. But perhaps even more importantly, the victim was heard before the hearing by the police, by the lawyer, by the district attorney. That session itself remains a very exciting moment, where intense life is lived towards in the hope of being able to finish something, but where as a victim you don't really count. As long as the victim's position is discussed at a time in the procedure that the defendant's guilt has not yet been established, it forces and wrings into the innocence of the present interpretation of the right to speak. Any new extension of the right to speak puts further pressure on the system in which this innocence presumption was quite rightly taken as a mandatory starting point. A revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure would have been a good time to rethink our criminal proceedings in this area. That's what I'm saying to my colleague Janssen. Can the Minister state whether this has indeed happened and what the outcome is? I understand that there are no fundamental changes in the new Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to the victim's position in our criminal proceedings. Is this true? If so, this seems like a missed opportunity. A two-stage structure for serious offences, in which the right to speak can be exercised once the blame has been established, relieves the criminal proceedings of the current tension. Of course, we are going to talk about the new Code of Criminal Procedure, but here we are getting ahead of ourselves in the hope that something can already be changed. When will the new Code of Criminal Procedure be presented to Parliament? Or is the offer and the hundreds of millions needed for this so I have read that one of the many topics on the formation table? I think that's still the information table. Mr. Chairman. The efficiency of the Dutch criminal proceedings is high. This is in itself a good starting point, a good principle, but many innovations to safeguard this interest, such as the two-stage process, seem to have failed. For example, there is rightly fear of the consequences of the principle that the trial of a suspect must be carried out by the same judges. There is a high risk that everything will have to be changed after further delay and that the same combination of judges will not be able to continue the proceedings. For this reason, a reserve judge is already being deployed in mega cases from the very beginning. Can technology not help to maintain that right starting point of a full assessment and trial without these stringent requirements, for example by integrating the treatment, which the substitute court must then take full note of before it can intervene? I would ask the Minister whether research has been carried out into the possibility of guaranteeing the use of modern technology as a basis for criminal proceedings, but in a different way than is the case at present. Now the picture of the stagecoach is still often the case. That's when our criminal justice rules were opened up. So I am talking about a more modern way, where there is room for improvement in criminal proceedings. If so, where is this research to be found? And if not, is the Minister prepared to initiate this? Mr. Chairman. The superb stage of the right to speak is, where possible, the right to recover. Try to restore on a much more fundamental level than is happening now what the unsub did to the victim. The victim must be a full party to this recovery. I am pleased that this Minister has had an open ear for developments in this area, such as mediation in criminal law. Can he indicate the state of play regarding the legal guarantee of the recovery law in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the AMvB in preparation on this issue? How should we read the letter from the Minister of 18 December 2020, which states that recovery law cannot be a way out of criminal law, in relation to previous rulings in the January 2020 policy framework, which states that recovery law can be a full criminal justice? Can we still continue to rely on the latter, so that a remedy is always included in criminal justice solutions? I'm trying to avoid using the word "doubt" twice, but it comes down to it. The point is that the remedy is also taken directly into account in criminal matters. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich was at the cradle of the right to speak for victims in criminal proceedings. Since then, the right to speak within the existing structure has been extended step by step, again with this law. In my group's view adding stepbrothers and sisters to the list of speakers is an understandable addition to the exhaustive list of speakers. Is it not time, however, for the right to speak to really grow up? Mr De Boer mentioned it as well. Shouldn't anyone with a relevant connection with the victim have the right to speak if this fits within the order of the hearing? Isn't it obvious now that you're looking at the actual relationship between the next of kin and the victim, rather than the formal status of that relationship? A stepbrother may have led a life completely separate from the victim, where a good friend or friend may have been very close. Why does the government insist on such formal criteria, which in turn need to be adapted on the basis of incidents from the ground, rather than leaving it to the victims' relatives, for example, where the court may impose restrictions in the context of the order of the hearing? Then I come to another subject, Mr President. Hearing the victim in an extension of the PIJ measure or TBs can be good if the framework and context are very clear in advance. Otherwise, it's gonna be a disappointment. What elements can be affected by a victim's declaration in the event of an extension? If, in particular, the participation of the perpetrator in therapy and the progress of therapy are decisive in the extension decision, a victim's statement has little to add, as previous speakers have already said. Then it's more to the disadvantage of the victim than the advantage. Can the Minister explain once again what the added value is at this session? Why did he not follow the advice of the Council of State by deleting this section? If it is, how is he going to get information on this to victims and offenders? Does the introduction not lead to unacceptable delays? Then I come to the element of the law in which my group is most concerned, namely the obligation to appear. Preliminary draft: My group also sees the defendant as the preferred person at the sitting for several reasons, and the government cannot quantify in how many cases the victim under the current regime is dissatisfied with the absence of the suspect. That part seems mainly based on a feeling, especially when you realize that the judge can already decide that a suspect should be present with order. On the other hand, there are a number of negative aspects: the compulsory presence of the suspect and, in particular, no perpetrator or perpetrator is a deterioration of the defendant's legal position. Two: the possibility that the victim doesn't want this at all. Three: the considerable increase in criminal proceedings in the sense of arrests, extra transport and the difficulty of planning the same sitting combination to judges, as a result of the obligation to appear, for example, because all this cannot take place at one hearing. Four: containment of the court's professional space. Fortunately, the law has two criteria which allow the judge to waive the obligation to appear. Can the Minister explain where the limits are for the courts if he or she wishes to use them? Does my group see it right, also in the light of the opinion of the Council of State on this part, if it is interpreted in this way: present, unless there are good reasons, to deviate the offender or the victim, after hearing the relevant parties involved? My group believes it is very important that the court's room remains as large as possible to deliver customization. I hope the Minister can promise this within the scope of the law. Mr. Chairman. This morning in Trouw we read the concern of the Public Prosecutor that the practice cannot keep pace with the introduction of this law. Hence my questions. Is the Minister prepared to allow entry into force only when the practice is ready and to consult quickly with chain partners for this purpose? When can we expect the AMvB to arrange anonymisation for victims? Can the Minister also promise that it will not be sent to the Chamber until a careful introduction has been arranged? Finally. The fact that the victim is becoming increasingly involved in criminal proceedings is a good thing. It is only time for a more fundamental approach to the role of the victim and the functions and purposes of the criminal proceedings. The amendments to this law constitute a palette of improvements and possible deteriorations. On the basis of the Minister's replies, my group will consider whether the balance is a good one and whether we will vote for or against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a distant past, namely in the last century, I began to work as a lawyer-student under the inspiring leadership of the then renowned criminal attorney Cees Korvinus, who was my patron and supervisor. The clientele of Korvinus was a spicy one. He did a lot of high-profile cases involving serial rapists and murderers. At the time, the criminal trial did not pay much attention to the victim or his next of kin. The consequences for them of the offence committed were hardly taken into account. That's how I remember the next case. Client X had killed his girlfriend, cut her up in the bathroom, wrapped the body parts in plastic garbage bags and then deposited them in several containers in the city. By leaving fingerprints on the plastic bags, it wasn't long before Mr. X was apprehended. During the criminal proceedings we received a letter from the parents of the murdered girl, in which they begged to return some jewelry they had ever given her, but our client refused to give it up. The deeply grieved parents had no possibility and no right during the criminal proceedings to claim these jewelry, and had to enter a civil procedure at the end of the criminal proceedings to try to recover the jewelry so precious to them. That was a moment when I thought the scales of Lady Justitia were not in balance. Mr. Chairman. Step by step, victims and survivors of violent crimes have gained more and more rights. 50PLUS welcomes this because it balances the victim's position with that of the suspect. But alertness remains imperative, because the rights of a suspect must be maintained in full. Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Minister and his staff for their comprehensive and, above all, clear answers to the questions raised. The response was of such quality that my group considered that a further round of questions was unnecessary. In my contribution, I will come up with a number of clarifications that need to be clarified. This legislative proposal for the extension of victim rights aims to further strengthen and anchor the victim's position in criminal proceedings. To achieve this, the circle of legal spokespersons is increased by the addition of step family members. Given the increasing number of composite families in our society, where close, personal relationships can arise between victim and step or foster child, this is a welcome and meaningful extension. Extension of the right to speak at meetings on renewal or renewal In the opinion of the Attorney General at the Office, Rinus Otte Otte, which has already been named, has often imposed an aggravating burden on the criminal system, the termination of the TBs measures, allowing all those entitled to express their views on the conditions to be imposed. Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. This bill also introduces the mandatory presence of the suspect, the so-called appearance obligation, in certain categories of criminal proceedings. These are serious crimes for which the defendant is in remand. First of all, I will deal with the obligation to appear at the hearing. The Government argues that the proposed obligation to appear in the response to page 5 is as follows. "There are several reasons for introducing the obligation to appear at the hearing, as the main rule. Firstly, the obligation to appear contributes to strengthening the role of the victim's right to speak. What the victim points out is relevant not only to the prosecutor and the judge, but also to the suspect." But the right to speak was initially created to give the speaker a voice, in order to indicate the impact of the crime on him or her. It is not a question of providing the public prosecutor and the judge with decisive information, which is based on the actual criminal record. That is why I would like to receive a response from the Minister explaining to what extent such a statement made by the victim or a surviving person, who, in his view, provides additional information, has an impact on the criminal record. Does research show, for example, that the use of the right to speak leads to higher criminal penalties or penalties imposed? That's how I ask the Minister. Another argument put forward by the Minister is: "That hearing the victim can lead to a strengthening of the sense of crime and can contribute to special prevention." In other words, to prevent the defendant from committing criminal offences again. Does the Minister agree with my group that this argument is based on an assumption? Or does the Minister have scientific facts to support this statement? I'd like a response. However, my group considers it important that the obligation to appear should ensure that the defendant is able to observe directly what is put forward at the hearing by the speaker and may respond accordingly, but that he is not obliged to do so. If that leads to more criminal awareness on the suspect, it's taken. Whether that will be practically measurable is only the question. The positive opinions issued by the Federation of Survivors Violence Victims and Victim Aid Netherlands on the obligation to appear, which show that it can make a positive contribution to the treatment of the suffering of victims and survivors, give 50PLUS the conviction that the obligation to appear at the hearing is proportionate. Then there's the appearance at the verdict hearing. The government believes it is important that the defendant hears in person from a judge what this judge decides. In the presence of the suspect, the judge may address the judgment and the reasons for his decision directly to the suspect. According to the Minister, this contributes to a proper administration of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u42	Mr. Otte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My name is Otten with an n and the Attorney General's name is Otte without n. I have a question for Mrs Baay about him. He says in Trouw, "I have also read the piece "that it is practically impossible to remove the victim's address, especially when it comes to an area where the unsub is not allowed to show up. I assume Mrs Baay read it. I think Mrs Baay tabled a motion on this at the time, even supported by us. How do you see these practical problems of Attorney General Otte is my question to Mrs Baay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u44	Thank you for this question, Mr. Otten. 50PLUS is committed to the privacy of victims. Following a debate in March 2020, 50PLUS tabled a motion which was adopted unanimously. This motion concerned in particular the protection of the victim's privacy in the media, the protection of the victim's name and name, because not every victim or every surviving person needs it. This would be the subject of another discussion between the Minister and I believe the Council for Journalism. In the last letter on this subject, it says that the conversation was postponed by corona measures. In the second term, I shall come back to this with the question of how things stand now. You probably mean the privacy of data in a criminal record. That remains very difficult. I know that, at the request of a victim, the district attorney can delete this data as much as possible if it is in the interests of the victim and does not harm the criminal proceedings, because the defendant is also entitled to know that he is not accused of anything by three or four different victims without a name or name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u45	As this motion was adopted unanimously, the question was how Mrs Baay looked at it. It's clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u46	Then I was at my last sentence, that according to the Minister, the fact that the defendant is present at the ruling hearing contributes to proper justice. Does that mean that if the defendant isn't present at the hearing, he's gonna get an unfair hearing? Oh, no, you don't. Each judgment shall state the reasons on which it is based, whether or not the accused is present, and thus contribute to proper case-law. It also states that the presence of the defendant in the judgment contributes to the strengthening of the authority of the judge. The judicial authority cannot and must not depend at all on its presence or absence. Nor does the remark in the reply that the verdict in the presence of the accused constitutes the conclusion of the public criminal proceedings make any sense, since that is already the case in the main proceedings. In my group's opinion, the Minister's justification for the obligation to appear at the hearing is inadequate. The grounds put forward for that purpose are artificial. Mr. Janssen already used that term. Therefore, the usefulness and necessity of implementing this mandatory presence of the defendant in issuing the verdict escapes my group. Can the Minister give reasons which are not set out in the reply, so that 50PLUS is convinced of the need?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u47	I've listened very carefully. Do I understand that Mrs Baay of the 50PLUS Group does not see any objections to the obligation to appear at the court hearing, but does she see any objections to the ruling? If so, could she perhaps explain a little more why? This is in the light of what Victim's Aid Netherlands has said about this, which, on the contrary, considers the obligation to appear in the judgment to be important, but sees this need for treatment much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u48	Indeed, I make a distinction in my contribution between the obligation to appear at the court hearing and the obligation to appear at the hearing. In my group's view, the fact that a victim or a surviving person in the presence of the suspect is giving his right to speak gives the defendant the opportunity to withdraw or, through his lawyer, to ask additional questions on the matter, so that his rights in that respect are not restricted. Being present at the sitting does not add much for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u49	Do I understand that Mrs Baaij supports the obligation to appear with the fact that it may be in the interest of the defendant to respond to the statement made by the speaker? Is it not true that, when it comes to the interest of the defendant, it is up to the defendant to ensure that, in consultation with a lawyer, and to choose whether or not to use it? To use a common expression in our office: every client has the right to screw up his own business.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u50	I'll leave that last remark in front of your office. Indeed, in many cases, if a suspect chooses to do so, as it is now perfectly possible in the case of serious crimes and also in matters for which he is in remanded custody, he should not appear, which generally does not help his defence. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that, by exercising their right to speak, victims can also create a certain image that does not always correspond to the suspect's experience. Then there is a corrective moment when he is present at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u51	Mrs. De Boer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u52	But isn't it right for the defendant to consider whether or not to be present, in case something is said to which he may wish to respond? Should we make it mandatory, and then why? I just don't get that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u53	I would like to stress once again that the victim's right to speak or the next of kin at the hearing is very serious for 50PLUS. Considering the rights of the suspect and the possibilities that the suspect has, we consider 50PLUS to be balanced. We believe that it is proportionate that the defendant should be required to appear at the hearing rather than at the judgment. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. Following GroenLinks' question on the exception of the appearance of minor suspects in the children's court, the response states: "... that the dignity and privacy of the minor victim may be compromised if he is required to be present at the verdict." My group does not understand this sentence structure. After all, a victim does not have to be required to be present at the verdict. Is the Minister referring to the defendant? If so, additional legislation should remove the obligation to appear for minor suspects. My group is happy to hear the deadline for this omission to be repaired by means of a technical change. Mr. Chairman. In the reply on page 11, the Minister promises that an evaluation study will be carried out into the functioning of the unlimited right to speak. He refers to paragraph 5, but that is an already existing 2013 evaluation study and therefore not very topical. Should my group have misunderstood the promise, I would now specifically ask the Minister if he is prepared, if this bill is adopted, to undertake an evaluation request in order to gain insight into the results of the extension of the right to speak and the obligation to appear. In particular, 50PLUS would like more information on whether a confrontation between suspect and victim has a more healing or adverse effect on the victim. This question could also be taken into account in the investigation. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u54	I have a question that fits in with what I have said in my own contribution. Isn't it very strange to determine the insight or, for example, the obligation of appearance healing only when an evaluation is carried out, and not to require that data before we start to establish the measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u55	In itself, I fully understand the relevance of this question. That is why I specifically asked in the written round of questions whether there is any material available. Well, that wasn't complete yet, and we need to start looking at what Victim Help Netherlands brings up on this. If a victim feels that the confrontation with the suspect has a negative impact, measures can generally be taken to meet it as much as possible, so that the victim has sufficient protection and that confrontation does not take place one-on-one. Whether this is healing or has a detrimental effect on the victim or the next of kin is of course not easy to measure either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u56	One final comment, then. Look, Victim Help The Netherlands says that it can freeze or kill when it comes to treatment. They're not gonna make a statement about that. There's no information and no research to show that it could be useful for victims. We don't know. Then I think it's weird that you say, "Let's give it a try and we'll see if it's okay or not in two years' time." I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Then you say: let's first examine whether it's a desired measure or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u57	If you don't enter it, you can't examine it. Measuring is knowing. You can't say you want to investigate something that can't be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u58	You could start by examining the need, because even that one hasn't been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u59	I do not know if there is any precise data, but I would like to look at the Minister's question as to the extent to which victims are already using it in matters which would now be subject to an obligation to appear. We just heard about the horrible case of the little boy Verstappen. It would then appear that a large proportion of the victims or survivors, at least those who need to speak, are present. That, coupled with an obligation to appear, may still meet a need. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, I'm coming to a conclusion. Can the Minister confirm that it is possible for the defendant's appearance to lapse at the hearing because of serious circumstances, but to remain in full effect at the hearing? Then the defendant is not present during the declaration of the victim, but at the hearing of the verdict. If this dualism is allowed in the obligation to appear, my group would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Following on from Spanish from the President who just said 'vamos', I say 'espero des respestos'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u60	So we all have to translate that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u61	I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u62	Oh. Thank you for this lesson. Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the PVV Group, I should like to congratulate Mr Hiddema, even though he is not here. It has been years of pulling and pushing to give the victim of a crime a better position in the criminal trial. This proposal represents a step forward alongside the small steps that have already been taken. The proposal before us now provides for measures that contribute to further strengthening the victim's position in criminal proceedings. We are talking not only about the appearance of the suspect in provisional custody of a serious sexual or violent crime, but also about the extension of the family of entitled relatives. My colleagues have also discussed this in detail. According to the explanatory statement, the appearance of the suspect will contribute to strengthening the function of the victim's right to speak. The hearing of the victim can lead to an increase in the sense of crime. This will prevent the defendant from committing another criminal offence should it be convicted. The obligation to appear will also contribute to the truth finding during the examination at the hearing. The judge and the prosecution will be better informed by the defendant's presence. They can ask questions. Whatever the defendant points out at the hearing may involve them in their considerations. In addition, the presence of the suspect at the hearing also serves a social interest in the sense that the defendant's appearance is mandatory for serious crimes which have a significant impact on the victim and which harm the legal order. It cannot be that the decision whether or not to be present at such a hearing lies solely with the defendant. The PVV therefore agrees with the Government's consideration that the legislator determines as the main rule that the defendant is present at the hearing and at the ruling. However, as has already been said, we are also talking about the extension of the family of entitled relatives. Thus, besides the stepparents, who already have the right to speak, it is also possible for further step-families, such as step-children, step-brothers or step-sisters, to speak at the trial hearing. This intervention can contribute to the processing of the traumatic experience of the victim and/or the next of kin. The judge and the suspect will also be able to hear from the victim and/or next of kin the suffering that has been done to him or her. In the event of a conviction, it is important to include in the judgment a passage showing the manner in which the victim's statement or the surviving spouse's statement has been taken into account, without thereby adjusting the independence of the judiciary. If such a passage were not included in the judgment, this could lead to incomprehension of the victim or the next victim, for example, in terms of punishment. This will completely or partially cancel out the effect of the right to speak. In the reply, the Minister indicated that discussions are in the meantime being held with the Council for the purpose of examining whether a more detailed statement of reasons could be achieved without amending the law on this point. In the next progress letter on victim policy, the Minister will report on this to the House of Representatives. My request to the Minister is whether he would like to send this letter of progress to this House as well. Following on from Mrs Baay, I would like to congratulate you on answering all the questions. It is rare nowadays that no further questions are asked. In this case, a further reply was also superfluous. Mr. Chairman. Another important addition to the victim's position is the victim's right to speak at the TBs extension hearing, in so far as it concerns the content of the special conditions which may be attached to a conditional termination of public nursing. Even if it is expected to be a relatively small group of victims, about 15%, who will use this right to speak, it is important that this group gets a vote at the sessions, even if they are not a trial party. Mr. Chairman. Although we are satisfied with changes to the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is and remains important that the scales of justice remain in balance. It is very nice and good that the position and rights of the victim are increasingly and increasingly enshrined in the law, but this should not be at the expense of the legal protection of the suspect, nor should it affect the independence of the judiciary. This legislative amendment takes sufficient account of all this and can therefore count on our support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Hiddema on his appointment as a member of this beautiful Chamber. The Extended Victim Rights Act extends the rights of victims of serious violence or sexual crimes. The bill also gives stepchildren, stepbrothers and sisters, but also members of the foster family that the victim has been part of, the right to speak at the hearing. The VVD Group believes that this fits in with the present time, where there is an increasing number of different forms of family compositions. The VVD Group is in favour of this law, but also sees that there could be objections to the legislative proposal. A suspect who is in remand and suspected of a serious sexual or violent crime shall be required to appear. That obligation to appear is special in our criminal justice system, because Dutch criminal procedure law has no obligation for the defendant to be present at his own trial, although the judge may order it under the current law if he or she considers it useful. An objection to the obligation to appear under the legislative proposal could therefore be that the judge would be given less discretion. Has the VVD Group correctly understood that, according to the Federation of Survivors Violence Victims and Victim Aid Netherlands, the obligation to appear does justice to the satisfaction of the victim and contributes to the restoration and processing of the emotional damage caused to the victim? If that is the case, then the VVD Group makes the same assessment and the VVD Group finds the defendant's obligation to appear as proposed under this bill outweighs the objection that the judge is given less freedom of movement in this regard. One reason for this is that the court has been given the power to derogate from the defendant's obligation to appear in exceptional cases. The VVD Group can indeed imagine that if, for example, a suspect is too ill to appear, the judge should be given the opportunity to deviate. That gives the judge freedom of movement. Another objection that has been raised is that it might be that the victim doesn't want to see the perpetrator. Due to the obligation to appear, the bill does not provide a solution to that situation. However, the VVD Group asks the Minister if she has understood correctly that this would be solved with screens separating the perpetrator and the victim. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group would like to ask the Minister how, now that there will be a perpetrator and victim at the hearing, it is going to prevent criminal proceedings from becoming a media spectacle, as you can see in the United States, for example. Neither victim nor perpetrator has been helped with that. Mr. Chairman. A final objection is that the suspect of innocence of the offender is undermined by the victim's right to speak and the perpetrator's obligation to appear. The VVD Group would like to ask for a reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then we have two final questions for the Minister. First of all, is it possible to comply with the appearance obligation via a video connection? Mr Dittrich mentioned that as well. I would like to anticipate a possible question from Mr Recourt. I had a hearing at the College of Human Rights the other day. Of course, that is not a criminal hearing, but it is a hearing that concerns people very personally. I was worried in advance because not everyone there would be physically present because of corona. A number of people had corona complaints and were present via very large screens. I have to say, I'm not so bad. I didn't think the experience was very different from being physically present. Later I asked the other party about that. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group understands that the Minister is adding sufficient FTEs to the budget. Is there a time when it is considered whether the estimation of the FTEs is really sufficient? And what happens if it doesn't? I look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would also like to congratulate Mr Hiddema on his first parliamentary membership. Mr. Chairman. The law on the extension of victim rights aims to provide for measures that contribute to further strengthening the victim's position in criminal proceedings. I am going to mention a number of points which I will mention in the second part. The strengthening of the position includes the introduction of an appearance obligation for the provisionally attached suspect suspected of a serious sexual or violent crime. Others have spoken about this. The legislative proposal provides for measures aimed at contributing to the further strengthening and anchoring of the victim's position across the entire range of Dutch criminal law. In recent years, however, efforts have been made to strengthen the victim's position. Others also referred to this and Mr Dittrich has put forward a number of important building blocks. The rights attached to the victim's position have also been extended further. The bill we are debating today is aimed at introducing an obligation to appear which I have just indicated for the provisionally attached suspect suspected of a serious sexual or violent crime. This obligation to appear shall apply both to the examination at the hearing and to the hearing at which the judgment is delivered. This ensures, inter alia, that the victim can exercise his or her right to speak in the presence of the suspect. Afterwards, the right to speak is more clearly embedded in the criminal proceedings by establishing by law at which time it can be used at the hearing. The legislative proposal also extends the circle of spokespersons, so that, for example, the step family is included. This bill also introduces the right to speak at the TBs extension hearing in so far as it concerns the content of the special conditions which may be attached to a conditional termination of the enforcement. Finally, this legislative proposal deals with a number of other issues. For example, the obligation to state reasons introduced for the investigating officer who decides not to provide the principal with a copy of his declaration or a copy of the minutes of his declaration is addressed. So much for the general comments. The CDA Group considers the bill to be a fair adjustment of criminal procedure law, but we still have a number of questions and comments, starting with the comments. First of all, the circle is being expanded, as I just said. These are people who have had some kind of educational relationship or close family relationship with the victim. They will be given the opportunity to speak with this proposal. The CDA Group supports the interests of those who speak there and who are closest to the victim. Victim support The Netherlands indicates that there is a need for such a right to speak, despite the confrontation with the defendant. Victim support The Netherlands also has people who are certainly preparing people for such a hearing in the worst cases of violence and sex crimes. The district attorney will do the same. In addition, the CDA Group also appreciates the amendments of the Dutch MPs Van Wijngaarden of the VVD and Van Toorenburg of the CDA on leaving out certain data for the protection of the victim's privacy and on the right to speak for victims in the modification of conditions affecting the victim's interests. However, the CDA Group also has a number of questions about this bill. The explanatory statement does refer to the obligation to appear, but not to how it relates to the extension of the right to speak. As a result, questions can also be raised about the positioning of the right to speak prior to the requisition. The defendant is then forced to hear the victim's statements without evidence that the defendant committed the offence; others also spoke about it. The members of the CDA Group note that the Minister does not see in the explanatory statement any conflict between Article 6 of the ECHR and the obligation to appear. Furthermore, the Minister states that he shares the opinion of the College of Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office that the innocence presumption should also affect the way criminal proceedings are organised. However, the view expressed by the College that the present proposal leads to "the defendant being held more than necessary during the trial for a person whose perpetratorship is already established to a certain extent" is a conclusion which the Minister cannot accept. The members of the CDA Group would like to ask the Minister to explain again why he cannot agree with the views of the College, following the speeches made by others. The members of the CDA Group also note that the Minister's letter to the House of Representatives of 9 December 2019 deals with the evaluation of the position of victims of violent crimes by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. In response to findings of the Fundamental Rights Agency, which takes the view that the victim should not only be a trial participant but also a trial party, the Minister indicates that the Netherlands has made a different choice. The members of the CDA Group ask the Minister how his consideration of the fact that victims are not parties to proceedings in the Netherlands relates to the development of the right to speak in this proposal. Furthermore, the CDA Group has a further question on the proposed introduction of the right to speak at TBs extension sessions. A conditional termination of a treatment measure concerns the assessment of the risk of recurrence and the formulation of special conditions. The members of the CDA Group find that, according to the explanatory statement, either the victim or the surviving member of the cabinet should be given the opportunity to explain to the judge himself why he or she needs protection. Under the current system, there is no possibility of informing the court itself of the need for a location or contact ban. The members of the CDA Group ask the Minister if victims have alternative ways of informing the judge about this. And if not, why not? I agree with the questions put by Mr Dittrich and Mrs De Blécourt on digital forms. Furthermore, I refer to yesterday's article in Trouw or today's article, which a number of colleagues have already mentioned. Through an interview, the Attorney General at the Public Prosecutor's Office Rinus Otte shares a number of thoughts with us. I ask the Minister to respond to the part of the aforementioned rapid introduction and that of the possible effects on victims. Finally, I have two more questions. The first is about Article VI. It states that this law shall enter into force at a time to be determined by royal decree. What do the questions that exist and which have been raised in this Chamber also mean about the speedy implementation and the bottlenecks before the date of entry into force of this bill? These are questions that are also included in the interview in Trouw. My final question concerns the assessment. I also read in the reply that the evaluation will only take place five years after 1 July 2016 on a broader proposal. Now it's July 2021. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees the evaluation of this bill in the light of that remark. I will come back to that in the second term. This includes Mrs De Blécourt's questions on the FTEs and the quality of the implementation capacity needed to implement this bill. So much for my input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u68	Thank you. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u69	I have a question about the Van Toorenburg/Van Wijngaarden amendment. I believe that's the order, or is it the other way around? In any case, that amendment concerns the omission of the victim's data from the file. In that interview in Trouw with Attorney General Mr Otte, it says that the Public Prosecutor does not actually have the power to say, for example, to the probation or other bodies that data should be extracted from that file. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u70	I will take back what is at the heart of the amendment. In addition to the question, I have read that the White Paper on Victim Assistance also mentions how to deal with it. The privacy of crime victims will not yet be adequately protected. This calls for attention when drawing up the amendment. I do not know if I will answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u71	Not quite. The Minister answers questions that the Public Prosecutor will then be in charge of "cleaning up" or, rather, removing victim data. But the Public Prosecutor himself says: yes, but at times we can't do that at all, and we can't be held responsible for actually leaving out all that sensitive data. So my question remains: how does the CDA Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u72	We have read the Minister's reply in the Lower House. The Minister has repeatedly promised to deal with this well. That's what we're relying on. I would like to pass on Mr Dittrich's question to the Minister. Can he indicate how he can also take the First Chamber with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u73	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Van Wely, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The JA21 Group also congratulates Mr Hiddema on his appointment to the Senate. Today, in this house, the Extending of Victims Act is in place. Let me drop the door in this house right away: we are in favour of this law. We welcome the incorporation of victims' rights into the Code of Criminal Procedure. Previously, these rights were mainly a child who had been held back, and there is still a great deal wrong with a number of banal victims' rights that have not yet been standardised. Think above all of non-standard reporting of the release or escape of convicted persons from the victims of sexual and violent crimes. Or think of not reporting the cancellation of a hearing that victims would attend or even speak to. Or take the victim's privacy, which Mrs De Boer has already referred to, and enforce these rights. Unfortunately, this is still too common and it is not under discussion today. Before we agree to this bill, we would like to crack some critical notes. First of all... As far as we are concerned, the bill does not go far enough. Here and there we can see some symbolism legislation. Nevertheless, we consider this proposal to be a step in the right direction, albeit not too big. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, all parties agree that the victim's right to speak is a good thing. The moment when the victim can lose his egg can serve as an instrument in processing a traumatic experience. Can it not, in conjunction with the obligation to appear, lead to some kind of resocialization of the perpetrator? But maybe this is wishful thinking. However, we do not think there is enough ambition from this law. If the right to speak is used at the right strategic moment, it can have so much added value for the process. In the process one always has a lot of eye for the human side when it comes to the suspect. Think of his motives or his background. Why not take the human side when it comes to the victim? We believe that this is far too little. The victim can offer so much added value to the content of the process. The victim will have many good questions on his lips from his perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u75	Mr. Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u76	I think I heard Mr Van Wely mix up a couple of times with suspects. Does Mr Van Wely agree with me that the innocence charge is that someone who is suspect is not in advance all the suspect, but that this will still have to be proved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u77	If I had said "threatener," I meant, of course, "suspect."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u78	Then you mean "suspect" everywhere. I'm very much in favour of victims having rights and so on. But that's still targeting a suspect who's supposed to be innocent. Does Mr Van Wely, if he pleads for more and stronger, think that this is in the right place in the criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u79	Of course, I agree with the innocence claim. I do think that if you ask a question to a suspect, even as a victim, the defendant is not immediately the culprit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u80	But wouldn't it be much better for a suspect to remain a suspect until his guilt is established and the victim or the next of kin can address someone whose judge has found him guilty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u81	Then maybe you'll let the victim speak as mustard after dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u82	Then I do not quite understand what Mr Van Wely thinks is the role of the right to speak, which he then calls "mosterd after the meal." You want to address yourself as a victim or next of kin to the one who has been established to have actually done the deed and not to someone you have to be reluctant to do all the time because you don't know if he did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u83	Of course, the victim would like to get rid of his egg, but he would also like to ask a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u84	A substantive question... of course the victim is not a party to the trial. The substantive questions are put by the judge and the prosecutor, but finally I ask Mr Van Wely whether the right to speak would not be much more appropriate and would have much more effect, especially for the victim and for the next of kin, if they could address the person who has been found guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u85	Mr Janssen therefore proposes to grant the right to speak only after the judgment has been given. I am more in favour of the German model to give the victim a clear role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u86	In addition to the questions put by Mr Janssen, how does Mr Van Wely see the timing of this right to speak in criminal proceedings? Because, of course, there is now a certain order of precedence. For the D.A.'s requisition, of course, it has not yet been established whether the defendant is a perpetrator, as Mr Van Wely just said. How does he see that in criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u87	In any case, I think the suspect remains a suspect. That's point one. The second point is that you should give the defendant the opportunity at the time when he would like to speak, for example after the prosecutor's sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u88	I can see a problem in timing. Suppose Mr. Van Wely is a suspect and comes to court. Victim gets to say his piece. Then comes the district attorney, who says that you did that and that. Then the judge decides: you get that and that punishment. In your opinion, does that timing have to have a different phase? Let me get this straight. Or do you think this is the right way to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u89	As I said before, I am in favour of the German model to give the victim a real role in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u90	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u91	And then concretely. We are always in favour of a comparison with other countries to see whether it is better or worse and whether we can draw on that. What, according to Mr Van Wely, is actually better regulated in the German model for the victims and how, according to Mr Van Wely, could we do that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u92	The victim can also ask a substantive question about truth finding and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u93	Do I understand correctly that Mr Van Wely is actually proposing to go to a system in which the victim is some sort of Nebenan complainant with a right of interrogation? And if so, how does he see how that fits within our current system? Doesn't this mean the whole system would have to turn upside down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u94	It is true that there should be a major change in the Dutch system. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u95	Yeah, but I don't think we're gonna make that happen today. So the question is what this means in concrete terms for the proposals that are before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u96	For today, that doesn't mean anything concrete. I just wish that the rights of victims could be extended a little more, in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u97	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u98	If it is not used, it is a missed opportunity. Then I'm gonna come up with an obligation for the defendant to appear. Firstly, we wonder to what extent there is added value in this part of the bill, because a the incidence rate is already high and b the court has the means at its disposal to enforce appearance. Nevertheless, we can also endorse the benefits of this section and the future will learn what the impact of this measure will be. However, we believe that this will not so much boost the rights of the victim, because let's face it: under this heading, that goes hand in hand. No, it is especially beneficial for good process formation. There have been a number of issues that have had a major social impact. It is extremely important that good reporting is done and that the process is as transparent as possible. We would find it impossible for such a process to be conducted without the key players. You might get a weird feeling about it. To what extent that is justified, I leave it in the middle. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Van Wely. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. First of all, our group congratulates Mr Hiddema on joining the Upper House. It was once my own idea to put Mr.Hiddema on the list, in order to facilitate a transfer from the more hectic House of Representatives to this chambre de réflexion, where things are a bit quieter. Our group is particularly looking forward to the input of Mr Hiddema into this plenary and the Committee on Justice and Security and the Committee on Immigration and Asylum. Unfortunately, Mr Hiddema is already failing on his first day. We hope this is not an omen for the future. I would like to say a few words to Mr Hiddema. In the past, Mr Hiddema often referred to the House of Representatives as an endless motion factory. That's even called a chapter in Mr. Hiddema's book in the politics of Stan de Jong. In that book was a chapter dedicated to the motion factory. In this respect, Mr Hiddema will probably be much better off in this Chamber, I say to the President. So much for Mr Hiddema. Mr. Chairman. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Law that we are discussing today provide for a number of measures aimed at contributing to further strengthening and anchoring the victim's position in criminal law. The measures include the introduction of an appearance obligation for suspects suspected of a serious sexual or violent crime and in custody. A right to speak is also introduced at sessions on extension of TBs and as part of the placement in a judicial youth establishment, the so-called PIJ measure. In general, our group welcomes the improvement of the rights of the victim in criminal law, although one might wonder whether this could not go any further in an international context. This is also an aspect which our group would like to see clarified. How does the victim's position in criminal and criminal law in the Netherlands relate to those in other countries, in and outside Europe, but let us focus on European countries? For example, Mr Dittrich already made a reference to the strong position of the victim in German criminal law. A not insignificant question is also: what are the consequences for the victim if the rights of the victim are not adequately guaranteed by the government? In a number of US states, this has therefore legal consequences. For example, in Arizona in 1993 there was a well-known case, Hance versus Arizona Parole Board, for the connoisseurs, in which the victim was not heard in a so-called parole decision, i.e. a conditional release, on which we also recently had a debate with the Minister. As a result, the unsub still had to be imprisoned, because the victim was not known in that decision. These are therefore serious consequences of non-compliance with these rules. How this works out in Dutch practice is my question to the Minister. Is there any equality or arms for the victim? Mr. Chairman. Our group still has a number of questions to the Minister about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u101	Mr Otten's comment raises the question of whether he thinks that is a desired consequence. I agree with him that it is a mistake that many victims' rights are not enforceable, and I asked that question too. But the question is whether it should have consequences like a longer sentence for the defendant, if mistakes are made by the government. How do you see that in terms of equality of arms between the defendant and the State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u102	That is a very good question, which occurred to me when I was looking into it. I thought, "Let me see how they do that in other countries." This is an approach that we adopt in the case of several problems. In addition, this came up. This is also known as a "high watermark" of victim protection in America. In Arizona, that is the most strictly regulated and most favorable for the victim, so to speak, but you could also think of the state's liability for damages. I agree with you: if the prosecutor or the judge makes a mistake in that, then you would think that it can be attributed first of all. It's hard to blame the unsub for taking advantage of that. In this sense, I can follow Mrs De Boer, but I am setting an example and I am also curious to see what consequences this will have if it is somehow lifted. That is not entirely clear to us. Hence this question, this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u103	Do I understand correctly that the victim, now a trial participant, should be more trial party, in Mr Otten's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u104	Well, that's, I guess, a bit of a turn. We are particularly interested in the considerations made by the Minister in relation to a number of other countries. Germany, for example, has already been mentioned a lot, but I can imagine that there are other countries around us where this is otherwise arranged. You could look at France, where there is, of course, a similar legal system. Our Code of Criminal Law is a bit based on the code pénal. Also think of the code civil, Napoleonic time. I don't know exactly how things are going there either, but that would be my approach if I were a minister. Then I would say: how do they do that in other countries, can we learn from that? So it's not like I'm in this with a closed mind, I say to Mrs Baay. No, we're just very open-minded: can this be even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u105	I'm always very much in favour of being open-minded. I would like to know a little more about Mr Otten. Then how does he see the victim's position? Let me give you an example: if the victim has not been heard, is that a reason why the procedure cannot proceed and that there is no decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u106	You might think of a form of professionalism of the victim: look, I haven't been heard, this didn't go well, there has to be some kind of revision. That is not now provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but well, you might think of something like that. Compare it with errors from the past, with the Schiedam park murder and the Puttense drag murder. In the end, there was a revision. Okay, well, of course, those are other things, but you might be thinking about some kind of mechanism or some kind of complaint chamber. I'm just saying a few things that come to mind. However, there are mechanisms to be found to give the victim a form of legal protection, I say to Mrs Baay. I will continue my speech. As has been said, our group still has a number of questions to the Minister about this bill. First of all, why is the defendant's obligation to appear limited to those cases where the defendant is in remand? The Minister defends this on the basis of considerations of practical feasibility. Isn't this a rather arbitrary criterion? There are also a number of possible situations where the defendant is not in custody, but could indeed be obliged to appear. Then there is the widening of the circle of spokesmen. This bill considerably expands that circle, with members of, for example, the step family. In practice, there appears to be a great need for this, as more and more children grow up in a family, while these stepparents often have a maintenance obligation under Article 1:395 BW. That seems to us to be an improvement in this bill. Then I come to the number of speakers. If we understand correctly, this is bound to a maximum of three. Why three? There have been many cases in the past, particularly in the field of sexual and violent crimes, involving many dozens, hundreds or even more victims. Think, for example, of situations of widespread abuse within church societies, religious institutions or sects. Why was this restriction chosen is our question to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to some aspects of EU law. European Directive 2012/29/EU was adopted on 25 October 2012. It aims to ensure that all victims of crime committed within the European Union have the same rights. These minimum rights include providing adequate support, providing information to and protecting victims and family members. In general, three situations can be distinguished: Dutch victims abroad, foreigners who are victims of a crime in the Netherlands, and foreign victims of a crime for which the offender is prosecuted in the Netherlands. Question to the Minister is: has this bill taken into account these EU-law aspects of the rights of foreign victims? We can see some practical challenges there. I would like to explain this aspect. Mr President, concluding. As far as our group is concerned, this bill is a step in the right direction, in improving the rights of the victim in criminal law and criminal procedure. However, we would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on the concerns expressed by Attorney General Otte without n, and by the way, no family in Trouw today. How does the Minister view this? There are some points that you might ask yourself: how are they going to do that in practice? In short, we welcome the extension of the circle of spokesmen and the obligation to appear in which the perpetrator is confronted with the damage he has done to people of flesh and blood, who often suffer the consequences of the offences for a long time. We support this approach and look forward to the Minister answering our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u108	Just for a second. Mr Janssen made the point earlier in Mr Van Wely's speech. I know that Mr Otten attaches great importance to the legal validity of the debates in this Chamber. In one of his last sentences, he talked about the unsub's obligation to appear. I assume he meant the suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u109	Oh, suspect. Did I say "dead guy"? Then I'll take that back right away, Mrs. De Boer. It was a slip of the pen. Suspect. It's a good thing you pointed it out to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u111	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Act 35349, Enlargement Act on Victims' Rights. We are now ready for the Prime Minister's answer in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The victim's position has evolved enormously in recent decades. You could say the victim's been through a lot of emancipation. That was also necessary, because before that there was little eye for the victim in the criminal proceedings. The victim's position is now firmly anchored and victims are reaping the benefits. I personally think it is a privilege to talk about this bill here in your Chamber today, also in the presence of a number of Members of Parliament who have played a leading role in that process of developing victim rights over the years. I would like to remind you of the right to speak in 2004, which was introduced on the basis of the legislative initiative proposed by the then Second Member of Parliament, Dittrich. He also quoted it in his first term today. Fortunately, the right to speak has now been given a permanent place in the standing practice. I would also like to recall the contribution and contribution of Mr Recourt as a member of the House of Representatives, who played a prominent role in the further extension of that right to speak. I am referring to the discussion in 2016, when we talked about extending the limitation to merely expressing the consequences of the offences to a much broader account. This bill, too, could be seen as a next step. I know how important victim rights are for people who have had to deal with a serious crime in terms of recognition, giving them a role in the criminal proceedings and receiving information on exactly what is happening. Victims often point out that they think it is important to be heard and taken seriously. That is also an important part of it. All this ultimately contributes to restoring lost confidence in the government and all kinds of agencies when people have fallen victim. Fortunately, there is a lot going well thanks to the efforts of many agencies: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the legal profession, the judiciary, various aid organisations. That does not alter the fact that there is also room for improvement in the position of the victim, because that also shows the experience. What strikes me is that sometimes small things can have a very big impact on the experience of victims. Sometimes that's hard to imagine as a non-victim. The conversations that I have with victims and which many of you are likely to have will contribute to that. When we are engaged in criminal practice with large numbers of cases and with large interests, we must not forget that details that are more likely to get in the background with all the interests involved are indeed essential for victims in the perception of being heard, being taken seriously and being able to restore confidence. In the worst case scenario, confidence is once again damaged. Unfortunately, I have also had to and have been able to see examples of this. This is why the victim's position has been given an important place in the coalition agreement. It has also been named a spearhead. This bill is part of a multi-year agenda for the victim's policy, in which it is not only about the extension of legislation and regulation, but also takes a critical look at issues such as treatment and damage stories. In this respect, it is a complete package of which legislation is only a part. The coalition agreement also states that there is an obligation for suspects of violent and sexual crimes who are in remand to appear at the hearing. The reasons for this obligation not only concern the position of the victim, but is wider than that. It is therefore about the importance of finding the truth during the investigation at the trial, the importance of the suspect, the importance of society as a whole and the credibility of our case law. This legislative proposal serves different objectives and ultimately strikes a good balance between the interests of the various parties involved and the principles involved. I also think it is important to point out in this debate on the extension of victim rights that an extension of victim rights does not necessarily conflict with the rights of the suspect in the criminal proceedings. It is not a zero sum game, i.e. that extending the rights of victims, necessarily always at the expense of it. Of course, there may be tensions that will be discussed in the debate later, but they are both important. They both need to be respected in criminal proceedings. Mr. Chairman. I was thinking of the following classification: the obligation to appear, the right to speak, the privacy of victims, in particular the legal hook in the context of the amendment, to indicate, on the basis of a general measure of governance, which contact details of victims should be kept out of the file and finally a fourth block, which contains a number of issues that do not directly touch the legislative proposal, but which are indeed important. These four themes also raise a number of questions that have been raised and which have been addressed in the article in Trouw by Attorney General Rinus Otte, and which can be refuted in a fairly simple way. Questions have been asked about the impact and the date of entry into force. I can tell you that the soup is far from being eaten so hot. To conclude, it is not my intention to bring the law into force on 1 July. In recent weeks, a sort of survey has been carried out on what could be an appropriate date for implementation. The first moment is July 1st. It has been asked whether there are any objections, precisely to hear where that leads in practice. We are going to do this in a proper way when the most involved organisations are really ready for it. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the theme of appearance obligation. That's an important part. It is therefore a matter of imposing an obligation on suspects of violent and sexual crimes who are in remand. First of all, let me say a few words about the central reasons for this obligation to appear. Next, I would like to pay attention to the relationship with the innocence charge. I will then consider the question: what if the victim does not want the defendant to be present when he exercises his right to speak? There are several reasons for introducing the apparition obligation. For many victims, but not for all victims, it is important that the defendant is present when he or she exercises the right to speak. The exercise of the right to speak is also intended to contribute to the restoration of the emotional damage caused by the crime. For the victim, it is important that he or she can communicate the consequences of the crime directly to the suspect. Research shows that this is an important motive for victims to exercise the right to speak. In addition, the exercise of the right to speak in the presence of the suspect may also increase the awareness of the accused of the offence. If that happens, that's an added advantage, you might say. This will then be a gain, because this will help to prevent him or her from repeating himself or herself. Moreover, there is an obligation to appear in respect of serious crimes, for which the suspect is already in remand. In other words, these are cases where the legal order has been severely affected. It is precisely in these matters that it is also important for society as a whole to give substance to the English saying 'justice must not only be done, it must also be seen to be done'. In other words, there is also a public dimension to the treatment of these types of criminal proceedings with a major social impact. A public trial in the presence of the defendant contributes to this. It is also in the interests of justice in a broad sense. It's in the interest of the verdict hearing. It contributes to the authority of the case-law when the defendant is required to hear his judgment in public. So that is more the social function, and also the ritual aspect. I mean the ritual in the positive sense of the word, as well as the fact that we here in these Chambers of Democracy know certain rituals and publications that contribute to confidence in democracy. Mr. Chairman. I do not find it satisfactory in such serious matters that the decision to be present is left to the defendant himself, as is the practice at present. I therefore believe that the legislator has a duty here to lay down a basic rule. The main rule should be that the defendant is present in such serious criminal proceedings at the hearing and at the judgment. That is not so revolutionary, by the way. Look at the countries around us: in France there is an obligation to appear and in Germany the same thing. Also in our own Dutch juvenile criminal law, from a pedagogical point of view, it is said that the young suspect should be present at his sitting. The idea is to introduce that to adult criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u113	Apart from that... No, let's not talk about that. The Minister mentions the public role of the public hearing and that the defendant should be present. I see this function of public access very clearly; that really adds something to the case law and also to public accountability. I'm not sure why the defendant's presence is so important in that position. My second point is very practical and concerns the decision-making sessions. In my experience in a lot of criminal cases, even with a lot of provisionally attached suspects, it's more of an exception than... No, let me put it this way: in general, suspects are present at the substantive treatment and only rarely present at the ruling. An important reason for this is that it is practical and organisationally very complicated. It means that they have to be picked up by the van at 6:00 in the morning and spend a whole day in a cell under the courthouse to hear a ruling for ten minutes, because there is only early morning transport to and late evening transport back. So the question is also a little bit: how does the importance of not spending an entire day in a very small cell without any possibilities, with the importance of being there for ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u114	This, of course, concerns the more serious offences, serious crimes of violence and violence, which often involve more serious interests and are associated with them. The proposal is therefore to say that it is important for a suspect to be present at the hearing. That's for a number of reasons. I think it is important that in cases of this kind, which have also harmed the rule of law, the judge should be able to state his views in the presence of the defendant. So not only does he say whether someone is guilty and what the heaviness of the sentence is, I think that is also in a number of other questions, but he also gives the underlying reasons. In my view, it is important that this also comes directly into the hands of the most directly concerned. Those aren't the lawyers, but they're the suspects in the end. I see these transport movements as a practical bump that you need to give substance to. Of course, we do that all the time. I say that apart from the fact that a suspect already has the right to be present at a hearing when he himself requests it. So I think it can be an addition to the existing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u115	Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u116	I will continue with Mrs De Boer's question. In practice, 70% or 80% of the provisionally attached suspects are already present at the hearing. What does the obligation to come really add? In fact, there are a lot of exceptions in the legislative proposal why someone does not have to come again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u117	I am not surprised that in many cases the defendant is present at the hearing, because there is a lot at stake. I hope not to end up in such a position one day, but I think that if you and I were to end up in a suspect's bench one day, we would also choose to be present at the hearing in order to defend us, to go to trial and mention it all. But there are also suspects who say, "I don't need to be there." There may be several reasons for that. For example, it may also be out of disinterest. They can say "my lawyer does it" or "I don't trust Dutch justice" or anything like that. Especially in cases of this kind of serious crime, there can also be a social interest which makes us all say: and yet we think it is important that these people are present at the hearing. That is, of course, one of the reasons why some of the countries around us already have this. It's something we hear back, also on other fronts, when it comes to victim rights. That's why it finally got a place in the bill, I guess. The victims who were present at a hearing where no suspect was present say: I was allowed to do my story, but the person who was at the centre of the hearing was not even present or didn't even bother to hear it. Then the right to speak does not function. In fact, it may even have had the opposite effect. A victim says: something terrible has already been done to me, now I am allowed to do my story and not even being listened to. I am only saying this very flatly, because of course the officer and the judge are listening and these things are also taken into account, but in practice we see that victims also consider it important that at such a time the defendant is present in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u118	I can imagine anything with a suspect present and all this kind of stuff. I believe all of that. What my question was about is the obligation. That's the difference with the current system. Despite the fact that it is working and in 70%-80% of the cases the suspect is simply present, we are now going to make an obligation to do so. The documents show that it would be about 1,500 cases on an annual basis. How should we imagine that in practice? The suspect in the custody house says, no, I don't want to go. Then he needs to be handcuffed and he needs to be in one of those vans. Then he comes to that hearing protesting. I just heard you say that it is important for the defendant to listen to what is being said at that hearing, but you can imagine the situation that this suspect is not listening at all, because it was taken against his will and is sitting there at that hearing. How does that work in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u119	I think there will be cases in practice that people need to be forced to come along. The department responsible for this, DV&O under DJI, of course also has the means to do so. It happens now and then. If a judge wants someone to come to court, he can order it right now. Sometimes that's forced, so there are ways of doing that. I think, by the way, that in most of the 1,500 cases we are talking about, the vast majority of the suspects will be fine if 'you should basically just be there, unless' becomes the basic rule. In my view, therefore, it will also be without heavy coercive measures. The point is, the basic rule now is that the defendant himself decides if he's there. It may also be that a suspect says, "I'm not so interested in it. I'll find out. If I have to get there, I'll go there. But because I don't have to, I'm just gonna sit here." In these serious cases, where victims are very affected, I think it is really important for such a suspect to be present at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u120	My last interruption to this point. We have seen in the Utrecht tram case, to name it, what it means when the defendant comes to the hearing against his will and disturbs the situation, while victims make their statements. That also has an enormous impact on the victim. That could lead to secondary victimization. The question is, where do you balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u121	I immediately recognize this tension, because this case played about when we were on the other side of the bill. It cannot, of course, be excluded that such incidents will occur. It is then up to the judge to call someone to order, and if there is no other way, to remove them from the courtroom. That is also the exception that I shall be considering a little longer. You can also reason the other way around. The impact of this on the victims was, of course, enormous. But I think the impact on those same victims would also have been enormous if the suspect had said at that time: "They're all looking at it. Fuck them. I'm gonna sit tight because I'm not gonna accept the judge." I'm referring to the things he called in the courtroom. I do not know whether the victims would be disappointed in our legal system and in our legal system, or perhaps worse. In that case, no attempt would have been made to get someone to court. That is the reason for changing the basic rule. The basic rule now is that someone can decide for themselves, unless. So, for example, a judge can say: you have to come. This basic rule is changed to: in principle you are there, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u122	I would like to make a point, because the Minister repeats to you in his speech what he also said in writing. All of his examples are based on a suspect found guilty. You say: it is important that the defendant is present, because then he will hear how high his punishment is and why he will be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u123	Or that he'll be acquitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u124	I have not heard you say that so far in all your examples, nor have I heard that in your tone. You did the same in writing. That is why I also paid attention to this in my first term. Does the Minister himself hear that in his examples he only talks about a suspect who is found guilty, including towards the victims? The minister says it's important for the impression, for what he's done to the victims, et cetera. But he's still a suspect at the time of the innocence charge. I would ask the Minister to pay more attention to this in the rest of his speech. I assume he's still on the innocence charge. Now the Minister says: yes, but he can also be declared innocent. So far, in any example, it has not been about the defendant who has been declared innocent. I would like to ask the Minister to pay more attention to this, otherwise we will continue to move forward and then it will all have to be done in the second term. It is a point that counts very heavily and I keep not hearing the Minister about it. It is always about the victim being disappointed, but I know from experience that the victim will also be disappointed if at the end of a trial the defendant is acquitted, such as: yes, what did I exercise that right to speak for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u125	I think that Mr Janssen and I do not disagree that at the end of the session there will be only one person, or a college of judges, who will decide whether someone is guilty. Until then, someone's innocent. I'm gonna take a look at the impact on victims. My experience is that victims can also accept a low sentence or an acquittal if they feel that the procedure has gone well, that there has been a careful process, that they have been able to say and that the interests have been weighed fairly. You'll be surprised at the realism that many victims have. I find the greatest pain in victims when mistakes are made in the process. If their interests aren't taken away. If they are spoken of, but are not spoken of or spoken of by them. That is why, as part of procedural justice and due diligence, I think it is so important to have the main players at a hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u126	I'm not surprised because wherever I can, I've had those conversations, and for a long time, for over ten years. But that was a downside, just for the victims. My first point was towards the Minister. I ask the Minister to be careful in the innocence charge. There is a claim of guilt from the examples he keeps mentioning why a suspect should be present to hear the level of his punishment and hear how bad it is what he's done and so on. I ask the Minister to be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u127	I am happy to do so, but it is Mr Janssen's reasoning. If I say that someone is or is not guilty, then that can also mean that it is not. If I'm talking about the level of punishment, that could also be a punishment of zero. That's the criminal trial. At the end, the judge determines whether or not someone is guilty and what punishment is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u128	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u129	Finally, Mr President. If someone's been acquitted, there's no punishment, so there's no punishment of zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u130	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u131	Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u132	I can confirm that a lot of victims can live with it very well if they feel that there is procedural justice. But in my opinion that processual justice is not achieved by an obligation to appear. It will be achieved by listening to the wishes of the victim. That could be: I want him to be there. That could be: I don't care. That could be: I'd rather he wasn't there. It's all possible. If I've learned one thing in my experience with victims, it's that not one victim is the same. Everyone has their own wishes and we must respect them as much as possible. We're talking about attached suspects for the time being. That means there have been pro-forma hearings. That is before it comes to a substantive examination. At such a pro-forma hearing, or in advance by the District Attorney, there is every opportunity to identify what they would like with victims who are represented. Would you like to use the right to speak if the defendant is present? If there is such a wish, an order for submission can now be given. I honestly do not see what that obligation of appearance adds from the point of view of the victim. In fact, it could mean that a suspect is there, while the victim has something of: as far as I'm concerned, rather not. That is also apparent from the Victim's Aid letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u133	We can do that now, because a suspect always has the right to be present at the hearing. It can't be that a victim says, "I want to say my piece now in the absence of the defendant." Soon we'll give more clarity about what the main rule should be. In principle, that is the presence. I don't think that choice is so crazy when you look at countries around us and the current practices in juvenile justice. Anyway, we can set up a tree on that. By the way, we don't completely scorch the room in front of the judge. Professional scope also remains open to the courts to depart from the main rule if there are significant interests or if all the parties to proceedings, the participants, do not consider it desirable or necessary for the suspect to be present at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u134	The Minister will answer the last point of my question and not the main question. It was: what does it add for the victim, now that there is already the possibility of the order for submission, which can be used? So I understand that the Minister says: I do not agree, but there are reasons, because of public accountability, or whatever. But from the point of view of victim rights, which is the title of this bill, I really do not see any added value, precisely because we already have that injunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u135	That is a can-determine and it is not always applied. It is also happening in practice that victims make their say in court where the defendant is not present at the hearing, although they would have liked it. With this bill, we will change that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of exceptions. I had the impression that this was an important point in the input of Mr Recourt, Mr Dittrich, and I also believe Mr Janssen. Mr Recourt raised an important part of the legislative proposal. The new rules restrict the scope of the defendant to decide whether or not he will appear at the hearing and the hearing. For serious offences for which the suspect is in remand, the main rule becomes: the suspect is present, unless. The judge has an important role to play in this approach. Mr Recourt rightly pointed out that the legislative proposal had two criteria enabling the judge to decide that the mandatory appearance of the suspect could be omitted. The first criterion concerns the serious interests of the suspect, the victim or one of the trial participants. For example, it can be thought of illness or otherwise. The second criterion concerns the case that none of the process participants considers the mandatory appearance desirable or necessary. This second criterion prevents the obligation to appear from becoming an end in itself. If the trial participants and the judge really do not see any added value in a specific case, then appearance is not automatic either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u136	Mr Recourt, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u137	I thank the Minister. I've read those criteria, too. Now I'm thinking back to practice. The fact that a plenary session has to be postponed again because a condition is not met is quite annoying for more than just the process economy, for example for everyone else present. A practical example. The defendant so resists at the detention house that at some point the hearing has just begun and the messenger comes in and says: we didn't get him. Can the judge say, given the interests that are playing here, are we going to continue today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u138	As I have just indicated, DV&O has in principle the means at such a time to force someone towards the hearing. I think we should not deviate too easily from that, because then any form of resistance is a way to get out of this. In principle, resistance means being handcuffed. There are several ways to force someone to come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u139	Yeah, I get that, and I will. I am concerned for a moment with the practice and space that the judge has to say 'you know, we have done our best, but we have to go on now', not only because it is efficient, but also because of the importance of, for example, the victims present or the importance of whatever you can invent. You can explain these two criteria closely and comprehensively. I'd like to know from the Minister if the judge can explain it widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u140	In order to do justice to the nuance, not every form of resistance must immediately lead to: then we continue with the session. At the same time, there are always extreme forms after which a judge will say: in that case I will decide differently. Take the case we were just talking about. In Utrecht there was an order to bring someone in. That led to so much fuss that a judge came to the conclusion: if he's sitting here, I probably don't have control of the situation either. At a time like this, you don't want to do that. Why do I call it an exception? Because there are also means to force someone to go to court. If that is the main rule, we should, in principle, follow it as much as possible, if necessary by force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u141	I think every judge would like to have the defendant in court. There's no discussion about that. But once again, there are situations that are conceivable which can only result in him not being present in the broad interpretation of these two criteria. Think of screaming loudly. We've already seen that with poop and pee... You don't want that as a judge. That does not fall within those two categories. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: in those exceptional cases, the judge has the room to decide "we do this without a suspect"? Did I understand the Minister correctly? Is he saying that the judge has the room to just decide in those exceptional cases to do it without a suspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u142	Mr Recourt cites examples of this. If justice is sabotaged in this way, and that happens over and over again, then the case must also continue at some point. Anyone can imagine that. The judge's gonna have to make a decision sometime. Nor should we end up in a stalemate where, as it were, a hearing is held hostage. That is not in the interests of justice, nor in the interests of victims. So, yes, then the judge can choose the exception at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u143	Mr President, I have another question on this point. Can "heavy interests" include procedural reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u144	I think this is a procedural reason. I just brought it in. Yes. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on to the innocence charge. It is clear: a suspect is innocent until his guilt has been established in law. The judge and the Public Prosecutor must not therefore take any action or pronounce words that would indicate that they consider the defendant as offender even before his fault has been established. That doesn't change because of the obligation to appear. That duty merely means that the defendant must be present. He remains entirely free to determine his trial position. For example, he can also invoke his right to remain silent. He can't be treated as a perpetrator; that doesn't change either. It may happen that if the victim exercises his right to speak in court, he addresses the defendant as the perpetrator. However, the defendant only has to defend himself against what the prosecution has charged him with, not against what the victim has put forward. The judge shall judge on the basis of the charge and not on the basis of the victim's opinion. Moreover, the judge has a duty to ensure that the innocence charge is also respected in court. If a victim threatens to go too far and points too much with an accusing finger in the direction of the suspect, the judge may intervene and refer the victim or his lawyer to it. My experience is that judges are also mature and assertive enough in that regard. We have been asked what happens if a victim does not want the defendant to be present when the right to speak is exercised. Is an exception possible? However, the victim's sole wish is not a reason to disregard the defendant's obligation to appear. First of all, the defendant has the right to be present, including in cases where the bill now introduces an obligation to appear, and also in cases where the victim exercises his right to speak. However, the courtroom may take into account the victim's wish not to be confronted with the suspect when exercising his right to speak, e.g. by placing physical screens separating the victim from the suspect. And I've also seen that in certain cases it's possible for the defendant to listen in on a video connection in another room when the victim exercises his right to speak. In other words, these are again things where a suit can be adjusted by the judge who directs his hearing. I come to a number of specific questions concerning the obligation to appear. Mrs De Blécourt asked whether she understood correctly that, according to some of the organisations concerned, the FNG and Victim Aid Netherlands, the obligation to appear does justice to the satisfaction of the victim, and contributes to the recovery and processing. This is very briefly indeed what they are saying. In doing so, it must be made clear that Victim Help has said to the Netherlands: always focus on the victim's desire. We have indicated the nuance that this cannot always be done, certainly not because the defendant also has the right to attend the hearing at all times. Hence the proposal as we ultimately do in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u145	I have another question, also in connection with Mr Recourt's comment on a suspect who is acting very badly in plenary session. I think there's quite a lot to be done in the case of violent crimes. Is there provision for one form of sanction or another, so that the suspect does not hesitate to do so twice? Otherwise, I see that in practice, perhaps, this is going to be a very serious problem. Did you think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u146	Well, a sanction... for starters, there are certain means of coercion. Those are usually not the most pleasant things, because then you get handcuffed and sometimes you go in a suit. There are all kinds of ways to stop the beating and the soiling of your guards. I don't have to go into detail, but you don't submit to it for pleasure. If you apply violence to those who come for you, then you will in principle start a new criminal offence for which you can also be prosecuted. Therefore, sanctions can also be applied where there is physical violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u147	My question is more in relation to the victim, who is once again confronted with, for example, threats, misguided behaviour or intimidation. How can this be sanctioned? Is that gonna be worth the penalty? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u148	That sort of thing is, of course, always up to the judge at the end of the day. I'm never gonna sit in that chair, but where there's a real threat or physical violence, you risk being prosecuted for it again. Concrete threat is a criminal offense. This will therefore be the subject of a report of proceedings, and this will lead to a new case. Then there was the demand for numbers, but I think it has already been raised in the discussion that has just taken place. Mr Janssen said that the obligation to appear would first be waived and that it would now be implemented again, and he asked how that change had been made. I think we can set up a whole tree on that, but one important element in this was, of course, that this was in the coalition agreement, as Mr Janssen himself pointed out. You can see here that interests are always weighed up and that there are parties that think this is important, such as the Federation of Survivors Violence Victims and Victim Help The Netherlands. That has also weighed heavily for us to finally go along with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u149	I do not mean to be faint, but I asked about the timetable, because the Minister explained in detail in the explanatory statement how this change was made. It is true that three months before the coalition agreement was written by his predecessor, "we are not going to do it," but the Minister then said that he himself had thought about it for a very long time from all sides. My point was that it was just in the coalition agreement. I think that was the switch. The switch was not that the minister had thought for a very long time whether he would do otherwise than his predecessor three months before. I was surprised that the Minister had written the passage that he had thought about it in detail from all sides and then decided that we should do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u150	I think it's both. Of course it was in the coalition agreement; none of that is a secret. If something is in the coalition agreement, it is at the same time that I am still looking at whether it is sensible, at least that is my view as a minister. There are also things in the coalition agreement that I did not follow up on or which I have adjusted. I've had several conversations with different organizations. They've all gone through the review. That has led us to make a move there in the end. Then there was the question of some members about the possibility to appear via video connection. Even when a suspect participates in the hearing through a videoconference, this is in principle, legally speaking, an appearance. It is therefore possible, in principle, to comply with the appearance obligation through such a connection. Whether this is also desirable in a specific case is ultimately a matter for the judge to assess. He is always the one who decides whether such a video conference is being used. It is not immediately obvious to apply video connection to a suspect for whom the obligation to appear applies. The obligation to appear is precisely motivated by the importance that suspect in person is actually present at the hearing and directly hears what the judge, the officer and the other trial participants put forward in his case. This also applies to the fact that it can contribute to that customization that is needed. Sometimes there may be cases where you say it's complicated to bring someone to court. Then perhaps such a video connection can also be a next best solution. Again, we leave that to the judge's judgement. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Janssen's question about the verdict: whether it would not be good to give the recitals and not just the operative part. He's got a point. This is often very important for victims. Fortunately, it is now more often than before that the judge also pays attention to the considerations made when deciding on a serious criminal case. Following the debate in the House of Representatives, I indicated that I would discuss this with the Council for Justice. This has not led to an amendment of this bill with a duty to respond, but to a good discussion with the Council of Justice, which has also shown understanding of that and has indicated that it will discuss it with their judges. I think it's important to keep up with that. The treatment of victims is also something which receives special attention in the training of judges. In the run-up to the summer, I informed the House of Representatives that I would like to know more about the steps that are being taken there. Mrs Bezaan specifically asked for a copy of it, because she also thinks it is an important part of it, and that is what I am saying. Then there is the question of how this bill relates to the obligation to appear in the wider discussion we are having on the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, that's a huge code of conduct. This is also a very long-term process in time. The legislative proposal is now before the Council of State, but you should be sure that it will take a long time to consult and that the legal process will really take time. Meanwhile, there are parts, including in the area of criminal proceedings, which we in our cabinet have said are so important that we want to make meters there, for example, the undermining legislation, for which we also adapt criminal proceedings to parts. The same applies to victim rights. I think this might be good for law enforcement. If you complete such a revised Code of Criminal Procedure with policy changes and political desires, you can imagine that it will also be incredibly demanding from your Chamber, even if we try to implement it. If you are burdened with many changes, not only in the technical sense, but also in terms of content, I do not think that it is necessarily the best way from the point of view of good parliamentary treatment. That is why my proposal is to do so now. Many of these elements will come back to the new Criminal Procedure, but then we will be able to do well in this House to discuss a number of fundamental issues. Then we're gonna solve some things in the new Criminal Procedure, with a whole referral. Mr Dittrich also mentioned this. If you want to come up with a clear, consistent arrangement, then this kind of thing can be solved in such a way, so we are definitely going to work for it. Then there was Mrs Baay's question as to whether I can confirm that the obligation to appear may lapse at the hearing because of serious circumstances, but not at the hearing, if I understood correctly, but if it is not, she will come to the interrupting microphone. Deviation from the obligation to appear shall be possible on the basis of the criteria referred to in Article 258a, second paragraph. This possibility shall apply both at the hearing and at the hearing. And with a view to the hearing, Rule 363 is amended. This is included in section M of the proposal, which shows that there is no difference between the two modalities. Then there was the question of repairing the reference in the article for minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u151	Of course, these important interests can also be seen on illness. That is clear; then there is a kind of force majeure situation, so that a suspect cannot appear at the hearing himself. But the Minister also said, and that is what I am really talking about: illness or other interests. So what do these other interests show?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u152	In the end, these are important interests. Then you can think of illness or some other form of obstruction that prevents a suspect from being there. I hear whispered here: a death. That is stated in the reply. So these are forms of major interests that allow a judge to refrain from attending.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u153	Let me make this clear to you, because on behalf of 50PLUS, I have quite a bit discussed the difference between the obligation to appear at the hearing itself and the obligation to appear at the judgment hearing. And that is important for my group, because we do attach great importance to the obligation to present a hearing, and a little less to the decision. But if I have understood the Minister correctly, the same important interests apply in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u154	Exactly. Then there is the reference, and actually the repair of a reference to the article for minors. This is being worked on, as I say in the direction of Mrs De Boer and Mrs Baay. Work is under way on a legislative proposal with a number of technical corrections. It also includes this one. In my view, this does not have to stop the legislative proposal from coming into force. The reference to be supplemented is technical, and without this amendment there is no doubt that there will be any misunderstanding. But you have one point that we also want to have handled technically well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u155	Yes, because the question is, of course: does that mean that there is no such obligation for those underage suspects in the situations described by that article, even if that is in the law? Because the exception is missing there, so if you applied the law very strictly, that appearance would also apply to the underage suspects. And the question now is: can we assume that it does not apply, even if it is in the law, and do we really have to assume that it does?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u156	Well, to clarify, and this technical correction can help: they are actually two separate regimes, two separate chapiters. It is already the case that juvenile criminal law applies to juvenile suspects, but this is based on a kind of pedagogical view that it is a good thing that the juvenile suspect is present at the hearing to hear it from the judge and so on. That is independent of these provisions. And there has been a reference that causes confusion, which we would like to get out of again, so we are correcting it in that regard. They're two separate regimes. Finally, on this part. In fact, Mr Otten asked why do you not apply this obligation of appearance more widely, including to suspects who are not attached for the time being? That is also of a practical nature. Experience has shown that in many of these cases the suspects are still in custody, but in cases where this is not the case, it would also be incredibly demanding from all kinds of authorities to force the suspects to be present at the hearing. Then you need to start checking if anyone's willing to come willingly. And if that's not the case, then you have to send all kinds of agencies to track down someone like that and force them to go to court. In other words, that is a lot of hassle and is, in our view, very difficult to implement. Mr. Chairman. I go on to the questions that have been asked about the right to speak. Maybe I could use a little bit of a bridge here, because a discussion about the innocence was also emerging in the case of the right to speak. Mr Rietkerk mentioned it, and there were interruptions by Mr Otten and Mr Van Wely. Mr Rietkerk raised the tension between the right of speech and the presumption of innocence. Of course, the criminal hearing is never a colourless whole. The D.A.'s office will take the charges and run the evidence against which the defendant can defend himself. The right to speak is pinpointed in this bill for the requisition and that happens for a reason. After the requisition, the plea follows and the defense can bring in what it wants against all that has emerged. This is what the victim is all about: the victim and the right to speak may, when exercising the right to speak, highlight his or her experiences and indicate to the court what punishment he believes should be followed. In doing so, he may talk about anything, including the probativeness of the offence, as long as he does not identify or appoint the suspect as the perpetrator. If he goes too far in that, then the judge intervenes, so is my experience. That's the way you guard that innocence charge in the standing practice. A number of members, including Mr Janssen and Mr Recourt, asked: should you not theoretically assume two stages in the criminal proceedings? Then there's a phase where you look at the evidence of the crime, of the crime. Then you make a point, and then you talk about the punishment, where you give the victim more of a role. In theory or academically, I have always found this an interesting model, but at the same time judges seem to be able to get away with it. Previous research has also shown that it may look good in theory, but in practice it does lead to huge bumps. A 2013 study concludes that there are actually no significant benefits to a two-stage model, but that there are significant disadvantages, such as the length of the criminal proceedings, that the structure of the criminal proceedings should be taken entirely and that this ultimately leads to a longer and heavier burden on victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u157	This is a fundamental discussion, linked to the innocence presumption. For the purity of the criminal trial, to preserve the innocence charge without a judge having to skip in there, I do have a question. The Minister says that it can be an academic discussion, but hence my question. Indeed, this academic debate is becoming increasingly pragmatous as victims' rights continue to expand. But perhaps the Minister will come to that. The minister now refers again to 2013; so did he in the Lower House. Then there was a limited right to speak. Now that goes farther. It will be extended further and further, in 2016 and now again. Before we revise the entire Code of Criminal Procedure and without making a choice, could we at least get an update, an update, of the WODC investigation, based on that broader right of speech, and an execution test for what it really would mean, rather than "much," "more" or "significant"? We want to know what it means, because it is qualified as "possible" session time loss by the WODC. Could we have that update, so that we can have a fundamental discussion and a balance in the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is going to take a long time? Then we have some facts on the table, without making a choice now. Excuse the long question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u158	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's not like we never did any research on that. We did, and it showed for all kinds of reasons that it would be unwise. If we were to see in practice that it is very tight, Mr Janssen might have a point, but I do not have any concrete indications. I could do something else, in the hope of getting a little in his direction. The extensive right to speak is under review. It shall be reviewed from 1 July 2021. Then we look and listen to different parties: how does it work out in practice? What kind of problems does it lead to? If there are any pressing situations, I can imagine that you have a specific reason to look at this in depth again. I'm quite willing to do that. But to do another kind of rerun of an investigation that we have actually all said "we do not see much fiduciacy in" and which the process parties also say they do not care.... A few countries around us I believe that this type of discussion has also taken place in Belgium and Germany..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I'm very reluctant to do another investigation like this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u159	I don't have to focus on what my neighbor does. We have our own responsibility, even here in this Chamber. It is a matter of principle. The Minister raises practical objections. When Mrs De Boer asked a moment ago about the obligation to appear and to pick people up early, the Minister said: yes, but that is a practical problem; we will solve it. This is also a practical problem that you can solve, but this includes a fundamental discussion. We are not going to do that revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure for a few years. It's going to be for a long time. And the extension of victim rights could go much further. I ask the Minister not to make a choice now, but I want more than words like "many" and "bad" et cetera. I want to highlight the possible practical disadvantages that the WODC considers to be attached to the two-stage process by means of an execution test, for example only for the serious crimes of violence and sexuality that we are talking about. You don't have to do it for all the business. You could narrow it down. What would it mean in these cases, also given the impact of the right to speak on such serious crimes? Could that have any advantages? I ask the Minister to ask the WODC to keep that under review with all the changes over the past eight years. It's not about redeploying the entire investigation, it's about updating it, related to the extension of victim rights over the past eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u160	I know the research agenda of the WODC. When you ask the WODC for an investigation, you get a very thorough investigation, often a thick piece of paper, in which there is a lot of time. That is what I really like to put in place for things that we say: we immediately see the need for, there is a jumping issue. In order to meet Mr Janssen somewhat, I would like to do a fingering exercise. Suppose you go to such a two-phase process. What exactly would that mean in terms of execution consequences? A performance test seems very complicated to me. Then we will ask all the implementing organisations and say: yes, we want to pass that on to you, but that depends very much on your specific proposal. And that's not there for all kinds of reasons. I can promise you a letter in which we map out a number of sketches that you should think about. Cutting up a two-phase model simply means twice a round: once when it comes to the proven statement and once when it comes to the punishment. Then you've got two verdicts. There's really going to be a lot more time in that. You know as well as I do that speed for suspects and victims is a very important point. We can see that this innocence pre-emption at the moment isn't so bad in practice at all. We can see that judges can do just fine with that. What problem are we looking for a solution to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u161	Mr Janssen, a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u162	The Minister mixes two things. I am purely concerned with the framed crimes that we are talking about today: the serious crimes of violence and violence. That's why he did a hand-off. We know how many of those types of crimes there are every year. What do you think that looked at? Then you don't have to do an execution test with a wide, open question. If we could just look at what it would mean if we were to do the things we are dealing with in this way in a two-stage process, again limited to these kinds of cases? What do you think that means? Then I find some sketches in a letter really too little. There's still a lot of time. I understand the Minister is now referring to a capacity problem at the WODC. Maybe someone else should do it. I am concerned with updating limited research on these issues compared to 2013 and a test of what it means in practice if we were to deal with this category of issues in this way. We still have time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u163	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u164	This is actually partly a question of fact. I hate to sit in the sand with the heels. I don't have much fiduciary in it, but I'd be happy to map out for you what it would take if you did. My only point is that for a whole new investigation at the WODC, a few years goes by. That's gonna cost a hell of a lot of human strength. Then let me talk to some implementing organisations on the basis of a number of assumptions you give yourself one with, for example the limitation to certain...... to hear exactly what that would require. With these assumptions I make a letter and on the basis of that letter you can say 'I am convinced of the Minister's position that it may look nice on paper, but in practice there are some bumps' or 'well, I find this interesting enough to study further'. The latter can then be done in a follow-up discussion. I'll give you that letter. There's not enough enthusiasm yet, I see. In the direction of the President, I say that I will only give a letter if it is also welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u165	All your letters are welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u166	If it's a letter that's not wanted, I'll leave it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u167	I'm referring to your second term, Mr. Janssen, then we'll come to your right of speech and tempo. You can also table a motion if you are not satisfied or come back to it in the second term. I'm gonna ask the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u168	Then there is the question of European law. Mr. Rietkerk came up with this. I am also referring to the report of the Fundamental Rights Agency, which notes that indeed, in neighbouring countries, victims are actually a trial party and not just a trial participant. If we look a little further, I see that we meet all our international obligations and that, apart from the distinction participant/process party, we also need to look a little more closely at what that means in the process. In Germany or Belgium, the civil society does not function to the fullest satisfaction either. Also, this is often not fully used. The victim should not be empowered and thus become responsible, in the end, is that the line we have chosen is to detect and prosecute the suspect of the offences that have been committed to him. In the end, that responsibility lies with the Public Prosecutor, who can also do so with some distance. Mr. Chairman. Then there were some questions about the expansion of the circle. I believe that there is a great deal of support for enlargement to include step-families. That's good to hear. There was a more fundamental question from GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Shouldn't you think instead of working with an exhaustive list about a more general understanding based on a close relationship with the victim? I find that an interesting idea in itself, but that of course calls for an extra judge's assessment and test. It is also a question of how far the judge can get away with it. I can well imagine that this will be seen within the framework of a new Code of Criminal Procedure or within the limits of European regulation, which also gives a number of obligations, could be worked towards an overarching material criterion. I assure you that I will work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u169	Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u170	The commitment is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u171	That was a brief interruption. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u172	Then there was Mr Otten's question as to why three were sitting. That also has to do with framing. If you leave that open, it could lead to a very big burden on the prosecution and justice. But once again, exceptions are possible. A judge may deviate from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u173	My question was specifically: why the number of three? That sounds pretty arbitrary. I have mentioned a number of cases of abuse: in churches about the Roman Catholic Church, of course, there has been a lot to do for many years now, as well as biker gangs where there is a lot of violence. I can imagine that three or very minimalist. What's with the choice? Could you please explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u174	When you mentioned the church, I thought it would be an argument about the Holy Trinity, and about how three is such a beautiful number and often fits so well. But it went a whole other way. Three seem simply to work in practice, all the more so because in cases where there are really a lot of victims, a judge can simply deviate from this and allow more to be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u175	One thing that comes to mind, for example, is the violence in youth establishments, which recently had a lot to do about it. These may be cases from a long time ago, but hundreds of cases come up in one go. Can the Minister promise that, should this type of large-scale abuse be dealt with, more victims can be heard than three, and that something should not be prosecuted every time for three cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u176	Fortunately, these matters are not dealt with on a daily basis. Most things are a bit simpler in nature. Judges also victims and family.................................................................................................................... But once again, where you are really dealing with multiple victims, judges can deviate from it and they will do so in practice. But that's not up to me. I think Mrs. De Boer is going to give some support, because she's in court more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u177	No, on the contrary. I did not break in when Mr Otten asked his question because I thought the Minister would correct the question, but he did not. Isn't it true that the limitation to three speakers only applies when it comes to the right of the surviving spouse to speak? And that, when it comes to the victim's right to speak, every victim has a right to speak, even if there are a hundred?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u178	I've got the impression this is a face-to-face. Mrs. De Boer is right as a victim's attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u179	You will return to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u180	I don't think there's any reason to come back to this. We can simply establish that the maximation of three is limited to the next of kin and not to the victims. Then we will continue to the TBs sessions, on which a number of questions have been asked. It is important to stress that victims should only be allowed to express themselves about the conditions attached to the termination of the TBs and that they also fall victim to them. Therefore, the victim should not be allowed to speak about the course of treatment; it is about the design of the conditions. Think, for example, of bans on territory and contact. Among other things, there was the question of why you would do that through a right to speak. There's another way to do that, isn't there? We see that it is very important for some victims to be able to share fears and concerns with the courts, which are also seen on the special conditions when forced care is terminated under conditions. This proposal gives the victim the choice to speak himself during the session. That is not necessarily necessary; it can also be done by means of a written declaration of victim to the Public Prosecutor's Office or otherwise. You could say that it creates more room for the victim for customization. I do like to point out that victims feel it is important to make their voice heard. In other words, declaring your wishes to the Public Prosecutor does not always satisfy the wishes of the victims, who think it is important that they can not only give the message, but that they can explain them themselves. In other words, not only what is said is important, but also that which can be spoken. Of course, that requires some management of the expectations of victims. It is, of course, a limited right to speak; Mr Recourt is right to do so. It calls for adequate information and we must not create false expectations. Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office can play an important role in this. I am thinking, for example, of Victim Aid The Netherlands, which often guides victims in cases like this, and of course the victim's lawyer. Mr Recourt also mentioned information to perpetrators. I can state that the D.A. will inform the TBs clinics if a victim wants to use the right to speak. The TBs clinic will then prepare the perpetrator for confrontation with the victim during the hearing. Mr Dittrich asked about the article in Trouw whether I expected the introduction of the right to speak at the TBs session to delay. This is suggested in the interview with Otte and that impression is given. I do not have that expectation; I say that frankly. During the consultation, the College of Attorneys General expressed the expectation that meetings could be held unnecessarily. Then they also came up with a solution. They advised that victims should only be heard at hearings when a measure report on the probation is requested by the Public Prosecutor or the judge, which advises on the conditions to be imposed. In these cases, it is established that conditional termination is also a real option. We took that advice in this bill. The right to speak may be exercised only if the conditions are discussed in the course of the hearing. There is a substantive discussion when there is a report on measures. In some exceptional cases, the judge decides to terminate the enforcement without such a measure report being available, but that really is the exception to the broad rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u181	In my memory, these kind of tbs sessions are very often about the therapy that the tbs-set in the institution follows. Very private things can be discussed about the progress and development in that therapy. Is the victim who wishes to exercise his right to speak present at those privacy sensitive parts for the TBs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u182	No, the victim is only present at the part about the terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u183	Does that mean that the victim is waiting somewhere in the hallway or in a meeting room and is then picked up when the specific item I'm referring to is what is at issue as a location ban or a restraining order? Is it about that kind of condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u184	That's what it's gonna turn into, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u185	Do you think that's workable? It is said from practice that it is all very difficult and difficult. Read Mr. Otte's article in Trouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u186	Mr Otte talks about holding all kinds of sessions, because it is not clear at the front whether there will be a conditional termination at all. I think that's solved with the prosecution's own suggestion. In practice, of course, a victim may have to wait a bit. Look, I also think it is important to make it clear in practice to a victim that the question of whether the treatment is being terminated has to do with the treatment, and that the right to speak does not see it, but that that is about the conditions. So that's limited. If a victim considers this important, for example because he or she is afraid to encounter the offender again somewhere or because he or she wants to plead for a ban on territory or contact and considers it important to pass it on to the judge himself with staining, then there must be a possibility for that. I do not think that this should lead to the suspension of all kinds of matters. In a single case, there is the exception I have just indicated, whereby a judge is still considering conditional termination, but he has not requested a parole report. In practice, however, that is a very high exception rather than a rule. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mrs De Boer's question about victims who are not informed about requests by convicted persons to change conditions. Here too, we have to see if we have understood each other correctly. If there is a need for the Public Prosecutor or the TBs themselves to amend conditions attached to the TBs or PIJ measure, this may be done at an enforcement session. The adopted Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg amendment has now introduced the right to speak for victims at the TUL session where the conditions attached to the PIJ or the TBs are changed. Victims will therefore not only be informed of the defendant's requests to change the conditions when the bill is adopted, they will also be able to explain their need for protection at that hearing. I had the impression that this would take away Mrs De Boer's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u187	That is true, when we are indeed talking about both the tbs-stated or the PIJer and the ordinary convict. So it is about the conditions that are imposed in the event of a suspended sentence. I wondered the following about this problem that exists in practice. When a suspect appeals to a prison sentence with conditions imposed by the court, the resortsparket is in the lead on the case, while the district parquet knows of a request modification TUL. In practice, this information is therefore lacking. I understand from the Minister that it is not necessary to include this information separately in the law, but perhaps he can promise that he will ensure that these processes are carefully considered, so that the victims and relatives are also aware of those requests and TUL sessions. That's what's going wrong now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u188	I admit that, because otherwise, of course, this is not going to work. If you have a right, but you don't know that there's a hearing on which you can practice this, then of course we've all made up a beautiful law that doesn't do so much in practice. That's what I'm saying. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third point: the privacy of victims and better protection of contact details. As you know, that is not just a subject in this house, but also on the other side of it for many years, which has received a great deal of political attention. I understand that, too. That's what I hear in my conversations with victims. It sometimes has great impact as address details, phone numbers or things that do not necessarily have to be in the criminal record. That touches that sense of security again. Let me give you a small example. I was in a prison last week. Our staff are also victims of violent crimes or of serious threats. There are all kinds of ways to report this to the address and the name of the employer, but once there are testimonies, it becomes much more complicated. Then you see that these people renounce such a case, because they don't want the bad guys in there who have friends out there to know where they live. They have a wife and children at home who they're worried about. I am only making it very specific, because it is often about this kind of thing and about data in criminal records. Of course, you sometimes need data, for example when it comes to a crime scene or something like that. However, it is interesting that the WODC investigation I believe it came out of 2015 and shows that sometimes there are unnecessarily sensitive data in criminal records that are not necessarily necessary for a proper course of justice. That was the reason for the House of Representatives to table the amendment. This was also the reason for Victim Support The Netherlands to make a point of this: "Look at this seriously for once. Look not only at the beautiful intentions of all the organisations involved, but also see if you can find a legal basis for them." I also immediately indicated that this is a really complicated process. You can hook up with this law, but we haven't solved it yet. I am very aware of the complexity. I fully understand that the implementation of further lower regulation will take a long time. This probably won't be free either. If you're gonna do something like that, it's gonna cost you. I told the House that I do not have this on the current budget and that it cannot be that we are pushing it into the organisations, because they are also with limited capacity. So that really is still an issue. We need to see how we solve that. We all know there's gonna be a new cabinet. Maybe this will come back. Perhaps a little more financial space will be created. I would like to see, underneath that stilt, how we can give more substance to that. The whole process of making such an AMvB starts with mapping policy options and scope and conducting discussions with the implementation organisations. We need to look at what is real and feasible. Eventually, a concept is developed that is also pre-established on both chambers before it is established. We're just gonna stick an orderly and tidy process to that. In that respect, I found the interview this morning in Trouw and the reports about the costs very premature. We're not there yet. We're gonna do it neatly and in a good way in common, with some common sense. We need to be able to work that out together. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich had a very sad question about the implementation practice. Mr Recourt asked about the consultative bodies that we have involved. We're not at that stage yet, but we're all just gonna do it nicely. We are going to make implementation impact analyses and request advice on them. Then we'll come over and see you again, so you can find some of it before we really start working on it. This bill makes a can-determine. As long as there is no AMvB underneath, this has no effect on the implementation practice. In the future, however, it will be possible to fill in this complex problem a little more and to do a little more work on it. The only point is that the D.A. might say this is not our job. We may have some disagreements on that. The Public Prosecutor's Office is, of course, the body that creates the criminal record and therefore has a role to play in ensuring that the documents remain in order and that what should remain confidential remains confidential. So we can't do it without the state's attorney's office, but we're gonna talk to them. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a final block with a number of other themes. There were a number of questions about the submission of declarations, particularly in sex cases. There are exceptions where the declaration is not given. Mrs De Boer, and I also believe Mr Dittrich, asked very strongly about this. This is done in certain cases in the interests of detection and prosecution. This may be the case, for example, if the evidence is almost entirely dependent on the statements made by the victim and the suspect, for example, if things have occurred in the private sphere in particular. The authorities, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office then say: we want to avoid in an interrogation that the victim bases his experience and memories on the report rather than on his or her own memory of the fact. That's not so much to make it extra complicated for the victim, but because it's important for the evidence and the truth finding. I can imagine that the defendant's defense will use it grif when a PV is given and put to great use in the interrogation, because this also means that the reliability of the interview is at stake. The reason why such a declaration is not given is in the interest of detection and in the interest of truth finding. The only point is that this happens very often now, and also without justification, without further motivation. We have included in this bill that it must be justified in all cases and given to the victim in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u189	It is not in many cases now; it is so in all morals. I think it's just in the clue now, too. I want to be done with that, or in the internal regulations of the D.A.'s office. I keep thinking it's really weird. In an interrogation, or with the judge commissioner, the first thing the judge commissioner asks is: have you read your report? No, because I don't. Sometimes you do, which is if you've had the criminal record in advance. Well, then you do. For years, I've been hearing the objection that a case could go to hell on this. I've never heard of a case that actually broke on this. So I think it is also a kind of fear of the situation that a victim would read out what is in the statement. That is, of course, not the issue. On the other hand, during an interrogation, victims are often confronted with 'yes, but you have said this to the police'. It'll help if you know what you said to the police, so you can explain what's being asked. Honestly, I don't understand the generality that it's not being passed on in vice. I also don't understand it from an investigative point of view. When I hear your answer like that, I still think that instead of in the clue, it will now be in a standard letter. You do not yet know if there is additional evidence, because in sex cases it is often a one-to-one declaration. You may be heard and you won't get it from the search interest. On balance, then, nothing changes. I suppose it's supposed to change something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u190	Sure. It is not the intention of the bill that what is now a standard practice will lead to a standard practice with a standard letter. The idea is that it gets more specific, that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office see in what cases it can and in what cases it doesn't, and that this leads to an individual assessment. That's the point of the bill. You have a right point that if we are going to evaluate the bill in a few years' time and it does not work out that way, we really need to look at it thoroughly again. But I am still confident that with this tightening-up, which I think is right, we will change things in practice. I would like to assure you that I am going to work on this and ensure that this does not lead to a standard deal in a new jacket. Mrs de Boer and Mr Otten asked some questions about the enforceability of victim rights. That's a broader discussion that's playing. It is also raised by some victim organisations on a regular basis, for example the question of what the penalty is for non-compliance with the obligation to provide information or otherwise. I myself have sometimes thought about what would be a meaningful sanction. In many of these cases, the damage can no longer be repaired easily. Think, for example, of not informing a victim about the right time of a hearing, which is incredibly painful. That often has a huge impact. But, yeah, how are you gonna sanction that in a way that the victim has something to do with? You don't turn it back automatically. The linking of consequences to the non-compliance with certain obligations of care also has disadvantages in this respect. In other words, if you have to hold on to something, or do it again, then that also leads to delays throughout the process. In other words, we have these care obligations and I think it is right to ensure that it is properly implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u191	I thought the minister was going through with the vice cases, but this is another point. So I will come back to the previous point. Why don't we turn it around? Why is it not generally reported in sex cases, unless there are specific reasons for not doing so in relation to the case? This makes it much more difficult in practice to refuse to accept the declarations. In fact, I agree with Mrs De Boer that there is not going to be so much change in practice if we follow this scheme that you have now proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u192	I think I'm a little more optimistic about that. I have just indicated that I really want to see to it. I'd be happy to enter into the conversation with the police and the D.A.'s office to see how we can make sure it doesn't become some kind of new automatism. Look, the proposal is now the proposal. I can imagine that, after the review of the law, we will have to take another step further if this is not enough in practice. We cannot change the law now, and the question is whether it is necessary. It's just practice has to prove this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u193	Perhaps you could give a more specific undertaking as to what you are going to do, so that we know that there is a finger on the wrist in practice and that changes are actually being made. Because that's not quite clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u194	The law now requires you to motivate it specifically when you don't report it. With you, the concern lives, at least I hear, that it leads to some sort of standard letter, in which nothing actually changes the situation. I'm going to talk to the police and the D.A. to say that that's not the intention of this law and to see how we can do that more specifically. There will then be cases where it is said that it is important, from the point of view of detection and truth finding, not to give it away, otherwise too much is being drawn from the police report in an interrogation. But that must be specific, and it must lead to a fine-tuning of sex cases where the report is given and sex cases where that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u195	Mr Dittrich, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u196	Yes, but the point of principle is, of course, that someone has happened to a crime. The person goes to the police and reports it. That's the principal's story. All of that gets caught in a police report, and then you don't get it home with you, because there's an investigative interest. But it's your own story as a victim-indicator. So, in principle, I find it very strange that those copies of declarations are not given. That is why I think it is much more convenient and better to have a general rule that describes well: yes, we do, unless in a very specific case. That is a different matter from what the Minister is going to discuss with the implementation organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u197	Yeah, that's right, but that's because it's not in the law right now. Then I would have to go back to the House of Representatives and amend the law accordingly. Then I'd also like to talk to the D.A. and the police first to know what we're pointing at. I don't have the impression that the police and the D.A. are now saying "we're not going to give you that because we don't believe the victim" or otherwise. These are bodies that ultimately want people who have committed a sex crime to receive the punishment they have earned. But there's obviously an investigative interest and a risk that if you've filed a report, a record of it and you give it away, eventually a victim becomes more drawn from the police report itself than from his own memories, which doesn't ultimately lead to good truth finding. In fact, that could also make a case vulnerable. The defense will say: well, that's kind of a story; someone indicated that in emotion at the office and now we get that same story again. That could make a case like this vulnerable. In my view, that is the reasoning behind the question of the importance of research. If you ask me to tighten that up, I will first go back to talk to the police and the prosecutor about what that would mean for the implementation practice and how we set up these whole trits and so on. I don't know if that's necessary right now. I think we can look forward, too. This law contains a tightening-up which requires a specific justification. It requires a change of practice. That's what I like to talk about. That's what I'm telling you. It shouldn't be some kind of second automatism. I hope that will really lead to improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u198	I shall come back to the point made by Mr Dittrich. I am a little surprised at the Minister's answer, because I believe that the law states that the starting point is, also on the basis of the European victim directives, that the declaration is to be made. The exception is that the declaration is not given. Mr Dittrich is asking for this and you are actually saying: we should change the law. I do not think that this is the case, because the starting point is: it comes with it, and if it does not, it is motivated why not. So I think Mr Dittrich's question should have been answered in full with: yes, that is the case; that is the case in principle and if not, then an explanation will follow. Just about to find the truth. I think it would also help to find the truth if victims were given a copy of their report. Especially in vice cases, a return generally takes about five hours. At the end of the five hours, someone will be asked, "Would you read it and sign it?" No one reads that from A to Z, I can tell you. After five hours, you don't have the puff for that anymore. So it can be very useful that the victim gets it and can read it at home. Then he can say, "Hey, this is written down, but this is not what I meant," instead of saying, five months or six months later, in an interview with the judge-in-chief, you said this when you filed the report; what did you mean by that? Then the guy thinks, "Did I say that?" So for the sake of truth, too, I think that in general we should say yes and that there really has to be something going on to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u199	The idea is, let's get this conversation started. Because I don't think we disagree so much. Whether it is so clear in the law or that we can strengthen it further: the practice is now that the declaration is not given as standard, or at least very often is not given as standard. We have all said that the amendment to this bill is there to further motivate it. So then there really must be something going on and there must be additional reasons not to want to give it. This should lead to a change in practice. At least that's what this bill is about. Mr. Chairman. There were some questions about the costs. I've just said something about the $20 million I couldn't quite place. Of course, other parts of this bill also cost money and capacity. This has also been mapped with an ordinary execution test and analysis. An appearance obligation means, for example, that extra FTE is needed for the Transport and Support Service of DJI and that additional seating capacity is needed. All these costs are covered by this bill as well. So that's done in a proper way. Mr. Chairman. I'm going through the last few things. We've had the subject of modernisation of criminal proceedings. We have also discussed the international context, which Mr Otten asked for. I would just like to point out that a number of studies show that in the Netherlands we are at least doing more than European obligations. In Europe, especially with regard to damages, we are really at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u200	The Minister says that the costs have been properly mapped out and they are covered. It may involve additional seating capacity or the Judicial Facilities Service. I understand. But my question was right: what if afterwards it turns out that it is too tight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u201	Then we have to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u202	Hahahaha, yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u203	Mrs. De Blécourt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u204	Sorry. May I ask another question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u205	This will be your second question; go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u206	I am very pleased with the Minister's answer that we must then resolve it. Then how are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u207	It won't be the first time you've had a setback somewhere you have to solve. Sometimes you get lucky, too. That saves, because then you can do it on your own budget. Sometimes something is very disappointing and in a new round of budgets you talk to the Minister of Finance again: "We still have a few setbacks. Can you help me fix it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u208	Mrs De Blécourt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u209	Then I'll ask the Minister if we can evaluate that. Because I know that capacity is always hard to estimate. It's also a problem. People are overcrowded, especially in this corner. That is why I ask the Minister to build in an evaluation moment so that we can resolve it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u210	I couldn't agree more. I believe that the evaluation will be my final piece for tonight... I think that the law will include an evaluation in two years' time, I also say in the direction of Mrs Baay. This means that the cost aspect must also be taken into account. It is therefore a policy evaluation, but also implementation aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u211	I felt that the Minister was doing a bit of a trickle-off on my question about the European legal aspects. I would almost tend to ask Mrs De Boer what is going on, but that aside. I was not referring to standards of these European legal implications. The WODC also did an extensive study on this a while ago. How are the victims who... I have listed three categories: victims of a crime in the Netherlands who are staying abroad, perpetrators who are from abroad and who have committed a crime in the Netherlands, or who are at least suspected of it are suspects, so let me put it correctly, and a residual category. The minister says if they're not in custody, then it's too much trouble to drum up those people in court. My question to the Minister is: how is it going with the category of perpetrators and victims who have a foreign component in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u212	Let me see if I get this straight. All victims' rights in this bill apply not only to Dutch victims, but also to foreign victims. So they too have the right to speak and mention it all. We don't make a distinction in that. You are right: there are also perpetrators of foreign origin. In practice, however, it is clear that perpetrators of serious crimes of violence and violence will be attached preventively until the session has taken place. When we look in our prisons and houses of custody, we see people of various plumage and different nationalities. The duties and the obligations of appearance therefore also apply to foreign suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u213	I'm not interested in the nationality of the perpetrator or of the suspect. I am interested in suspects who are abroad, but who are suspected of a criminal offence in the Netherlands. What qualified these victims as participation? How is it dealt with in practice? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u214	This also differs from one case to another. Someone may be abroad, but have the willingness to come to his business in the Netherlands. Sometimes we are dealing with suspects abroad who have knowingly left the Netherlands, because they are fleeing justice. That falls into a whole program with us. That's what we call "untraceable and fugitive suspects." Especially in the heavier cases, where the criminal charges are higher, we are also working with international police organisations, Europol and Interpol, to call for or announce an APB and an arrest warrant, so that those people can also be arrested abroad and finally brought to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u215	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u216	Finally. For example, a few years ago there was a terrible incident by that American tourist who was stabbed in the central station in Amsterdam. He's now completely paralyzed with a spinal cord, et cetera. Are tourists who are victims of violent crimes in the Netherlands informed that there is a hearing and that they can appear there if they are staying abroad again from where they came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u217	Oh, yeah. I myself was not present at that hearing, but I can remember that at that time there was quite a lot of attention to the position of the victims in that case, also because of the huge amount of compensation that went into the millions. According to Dutch usage and in our system, this is by the way advanced by the State. In the end, I think it was 2 million in compensation, which we as a Dutch State have paid in full, despite the fact that these were American victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u218	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u219	Oh, so I understand the Dutch state has advanced that. I'm very happy to hear that. I read somewhere that 76%...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u220	Which isn't some kind of specialty, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u221	I didn't know this happened, but I think it's very good that it happened. I read that some 76% of the advance payments can eventually be made on the perpetrators. I wasn't that bad. Whether that 2 million will ever come back, I doubt it, but I am pleased to hear that it has happened for this victim, even if it is a very tragic issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u222	It's a terrible matter. As far as the story risk is concerned, you are right: not everything can be told on the perpetrators. Especially in the case of serious crimes of violence and sexuality, the story risk is for the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u223	For the sake of confirmation, has the Minister now promised that an evaluation study will be carried out in two years' time, which will include the cost apect, the effects of the more extensive court, the effects of the defendant's obligation to appear, as well as the possible adverse or beneficial effects on the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u224	Yes. It's just a normal, broad assessment: does the law do what it has to do and is it feasible in practice? These are the main points, and I believe that all your questions are covered. Mr Recourt had a question about recovery law. There are a number of things playing at that point. In the letter of December, I outlined two routes. The first is the Innovation Act Criminal Procedure, which includes a proposal on how the judge can act as mediation is initiated after the investigation at the hearing has been opened. This scheme is being tested in a pilot, which is now in preparation. I have also indicated that a general measure of governance is being worked on, which is tailored to remedial provisions in criminal proceedings. It is an important part of bringing together a number of existing issues, sometimes with parties wanting to introduce new topics into them. That's often the discussion. But new issues also require space, time and money, which is not currently available in the budget. However, this also applies to the fact that recovery mediation had an important role in the coalition agreement last time. We need to see what different parties are going to bring in for a new round of possible investments in the field of justice and perhaps also in this particular area. He dared me: you once said something about recovery law; is it or is it not a full-fledged decision and is it always taken away? If an officer or a judge sees an opportunity to use reparation law, I think we should make use of it. You know the mediation agencies in the different courts. I am very positive about the work being done there. A selection is often made. In the cases where that is done, you see a fairly high success rate. That's very nice. I also think that an officer and a judge should eventually take that into a case, so I think we're on the same page there. I don't know exactly where he got my statements, but I did say that right of recovery can never be a one-on-one substitute for criminal judgment. In other words, as a perpetrator and a victim or a suspect and a victim, we are often still at that stage of the trial, if excuses are offered or compensation etc., that can be a positive point that the officer and the judge consider in their judgment. But in some cases there is a shocking legal order and also a social signal to be given. So it may well be that a successful recovery round, a successful mediation in criminal law, has taken place, but that a judge still sees reason to condemn and punish someone. That's what I keep trying to say: it can never be replaced. I do not think that this is necessary to maintain support for mediation in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u225	I thank the Minister. Of course, there is still a social interest in addition to the interests of the perpetrator and victim or suspect and victim. Anyway, if there's mediation coming out, I think we can talk about "jabber." They are the primary parties. Is the Minister's approach that at least all the parties who lend themselves to it should consider whether this is a normal course of action? It is the most desirable outcome, especially for the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u226	If the parties say that there is willingness on both sides and an officer or a judge sees fit to do so, then I think it is right that we should use that means. We have also earmarked money for this, and it goes on every year. Last year, when we were sitting on the ceiling in September or October, I said 'go ahead', because it is not about such amounts that you have to do complicated things and apply too tight a ceiling. So I'm very excited about it. My only point is just a case-by-case. Take, for example, nightlife violence. If there have been blows in a pub, then it can be very helpful to exercise reparation rights there to ensure that someone is compensated for his broken clothes or his own risk in the hospital or something like that, that someone says "I'm sorry for what I've done, I don't want to do anymore" and that they say, "Okay, then we can get back together again from now on. Because when we go to Eindhoven and meet each other again on the street, we don't want to see some kind of tension." That's very good. But if there have been blows in a pub, then I think that an officer and a judge can find something of that and that there may also be some of social standards. When it comes to the level of punishment, you can take into account the fact that they seem to have agreed among themselves in a mediation process. In the end, of course, that is up to the judge, but I think that in such cases there may also be reason to impose a penalty. That's what I'm talking about. It's never in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u227	I do not think we have a difference of opinion as to whether the prosecutor should dismiss or dismiss under conditions, but at least society should take a look at a formal way that fits in with criminal law. It is much more important to me that you already have this in your head as criminal organizations, so that you immediately look: is mediation possible here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u228	I'm very much in favour of that. And that's why I'm very much in favour of those standing practices in those courts where you have mediation agencies. You need a victim who needs to be open to it, and you need a suspect who needs to be open to it. If they are not present, it often has no chance of success. But send people over to that mediation agency as soon as an officer says, "Hey, this has a chance of success. Then such a screening is done and a trial counselor is put on it. That can lead to fantastic outcomes. I see Mr Dittrich. This is part of "preaching to the converted." Mrs Baay asked me about journalism and the motion on it. Indeed, I sent a letter about a year ago stating that Corona has not yet allowed that conversation to take place. A number of sessions have taken place in the meantime. There have been a number of online activities, as well as a number of dialogue sessions with journalists and involved. There were also a number of online media cafés. Those were meetings a bit in the form of a talk show. It is intended that this will be concluded with a final meeting. I believe it's been held before the summer, but don't pin me on it. Then I will inform the Chamber. If that's what you need, I'd like to inform the First Chamber about that, too. This is in any case in line with the point you have made. Mr President, I am as good as at the end of my...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u229	I'll come back on that letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u230	I call Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u231	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, for my enthusiasm. I would, of course, like the letter on the state of affairs to go to the Upper House as well. What are the findings from all the conversations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u232	I think I have almost all the questions... I have one more point from Mrs De Blécourt. She asked: doesn't this lead to some kind of media spectacle? I do not think so, apart from the fact that we have press directives which are certainly quite strict in criminal matters about what can and cannot be done with images and sound recordings. I also really have the impression that this legislative proposal strikes the right balance between the rights of victims on the one hand and those of suspects on the other. And despite the fact that this is taking a number of steps, this also leaves sufficient room for the courts to come to reasonable judgements in individual cases. I therefore hope that this bill will be supported by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a challenge to be the first speaker to have your speech ready on time every time, even now for the second term. But I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u235	You're doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u236	And I'm gonna try to keep it short. I note that the Minister has made quite a few promises and made clarifications. I welcome the Minister's commitment to consider the possibility of working with a more open standard, such as 'a close personal relationship' rather than a limited list of speakers. I'll just mention it for... We have also briefly discussed the question of enforceability. I think that will remain an ungodly discussion. I have noted that we agree that also in sex cases the starting point is that victims receive a copy of their report, and that I quote "there really must be something going on" does not want that to happen. And I have also heard that the Minister said that it is not intended that there should be a standard letter stating why no copy is being provided, but that there should be an individual justification. I've heard that he's going to make sure that something's really gonna change. As far as we are concerned, however, the obligation to present to the provisionally attached suspect of serious facts in the matter of substance and judgment remains problematic. There are also a few unanswered questions about this. I had asked whether it would be considered to apply this obligation of appearance only to completed life crimes, now that the defendant's wish to be present has been expressed, in particular, by next of kin. Also on my question to reflect on the thesis that you are making a law to solve a problem and not to evaluate a law to see if there was a problem, has not been explicitly addressed. I asked that question because the government has previously said that it is not known how often the right to speak is exercised, how often suspects are present or not present and what victims think of it. We note that, in this debate, we have noted that the important interests of a trial participant which allow the judge to make an exception to the obligation to appear may also include the importance of an orderly conduct of the trial and that this is for the judge's assessment. We consider this important in practice for the legal history and the interpretation of the law. However, the answer given by the Minister did not alter our position on the matter of the obligation to appear. Even after the answer, we see no added value in a standard publication obligation, which can already be provided by means of customisation by means of the order for communication. An overall obligation to appear is and will continue to be an infringement of the rights of the suspect. As far as we are concerned, there is no legitimate reason for this infringement. Then I come to the right of victims and next of kin at TBs extension sessions and the PIJ measure. I welcome the clarity: victims or relatives will only be invited if a report of measures is requested and should only be present when the conditions are discussed and not at the rest of the session. I think this is also important for practice. I am assuming that this will indeed be very well communicated to victims and relatives and their organisations in order to avoid disillusionment and disappointment, because, as the Minister will also know, the work on victim rights is to a large extent also about expectations management. I also appreciate the Minister's commitment to ensure that victims and relatives will be informed by the Public Prosecutor about requests to change the conditions and called for the TUL sessions so that they can actually exercise the right to speak under this law. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the Minister has clarified a number of points and made a number of commitments. However, a number of our objections remain, particularly with regard to the obligation to appear. What will ultimately be our final judgment, I will discuss this week in the group and will turn out to be next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u237	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u238	Mr President, thank you. One question that my group raised was when this law entered into force and how we should assess its implementation: it can go carefully, there is enough money for it, etc. But the Minister said that all of this is still at AMvB and that we can still talk about it. At least that sounds like a plus to me. I also know that this minister is very much appreciated by victims' organisations. I would like to thank him very much, because he does good things for that too. When we talked about the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Minister said: it is good that we have brought it forward, because we should not stuff it with political desires. Now I am not in favour of legislation being filled with political wishes at all, but I believe that the start to the new policy is precisely that we are looking at how to do with as many majorities as possible what is right for our society, other than just translating the political wishes of an accidental majority. So I kind of stuck on that. I think we should do what's right. I am also pleased that the Minister has said that the coalition agreement is apparently a set of options that the rulers can see for themselves whether they want something with it or not. That gives hope for the process on the other side that is now under way, so it is not the case that if it is in the coalition agreement, it must necessarily be carried out. That's a nice move for the other side, I think. However, I am still a little stuck when I look at the content of the objectives which Minister links to the obligation to appear. As I said in the first term, this is an important point for my group, which we are really against, not only here but also in the House of Representatives. I also pointed out in the interruption that in the Minister's examples and in the language he used, both in written preparation and here too, the word'suspect' can be replaced by 'offender'. The Minister says that he is not. The whole list of the purpose or objectives of the obligation to appear, such as increasing the awareness of the suspect of what he has done, is based on a guilty suspect. It's the total that evokes that image. Mr. Chairman. The WODC. The minister's making it very big, but I didn't say the WODC should do it. I have said that I would like us to be able to consider, before we talk about the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure in a number of years' time, whether such a two-stage process, for example in the case of serious crimes of violence and sexual orientation, could be something. An investigation was carried out there in 2013, but that was still based on a limited right to speak. My question to the Minister was therefore whether we could have another look at an update of that. We are not talking about a whole new literature study or about years of research, but about whether, over the past eight years, with the extension of victim rights, things have occurred that may have an impact on the WODC's trade-offs and conclusions at the time, i.e. a limited update. The minister says he's not going to burden the limited capacity of the WODC with that, but I'm not asking for that to be done by the WODC. A healthy look from outside could also be very good. That could be the size of a letter advice, which is perfectly normal. That would only cover less than the summary of the WODC report in itself. Who should do it, I would say to the Minister: make a proposal. You don't have to do that now. The size of the letter does not have to be more than a limited letter advice, to see if there are any developments we need to discuss. Do not oversize the execution key. Keep that limited. That is why I have the next motion ahead of the second deadline. The: Mr Janssen proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that in 2013 the WODC carried out an investigation into the benefits and disadvantages of a two-stage process and that victim rights in criminal matters have been significantly extended since the WODC investigation; Whereas the WODC indicates as disadvantages that a two-stage process could potentially lead to loss of seating capacity and a negative effect on workload and lead times; Considers that it is desirable to have an update of the 2013 WODC investigation involving the extension of victim rights for the parliamentary consideration of the envisaged revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure; considers that the possible disadvantages of a two-stage process mentioned by the WODC study in 2013 need further justification; Calls on the Government to carry out an update of the 2013 WODC study on the two-stage process and to carry out an execution test on the impact of a two-stage process on serious violence and sexual offences; calls on the Government to ensure that the update and the execution test are carried out in a timely manner so that the results can be involved in the parliamentary examination of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter E ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u239	With all the explanations and limitations I have just given, I think we can talk about that in the second term. Furthermore, I await the Minister's second term. Finally, I can say that we really have not yet figured out what we need to do with this bill. For us, this obligation of appearance is really an important point, no matter how much the position of the victims is at the heart of my group and myself personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u240	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Some points have really been clarified. The Minister has also made a number of commitments, interesting. However, there are still a number of points which need to be further developed for us. I'll start with the apparition duty. In the interruption I asked the Minister: procedural reasons, could they also be important interests? So if the judge says that the suspect doesn't want to come, he's not here, but it would be such a waste of time if we had to postpone the hearing and the like; it's not in the interest of the other trial participants to keep that case, so let's continue without that suspect being present at the hearing. I would like to hear a clear response from the Minister; can this also be included in the figure of the proposed article? Clearly noted that the Minister says: a video connection may be covered by the exceptions. So the defendant doesn't have to appear, but the Minister rightly says that that must of course be an exception. I get that. And it contributes to the customization that the judge does at the hearing, so I thought that was important to hear. On the subject of evaluation, the Minister said: in two years' time, including a number of specific aspects, such as the cost aspect and, of course, the effectiveness and feasibility of the legislative proposal. But what I would really like is for this evaluation to play a role in dealing with the Code of Criminal Procedure. What we learn from the evaluation of this law, we can include in the treatment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So my question is whether that is time-related. Because if we were to deal with the whole Code of Criminal Procedure in six months' time, we would of course never be able to take the evaluation back. So let's get some clarity on how that fits together. I listened very carefully to Mr Janssen and I also saw his motion. And I also let the Minister's answer get through to me. Yes, I must say that I do find the two-stage structure an interesting discussion. But yes, if the Minister says "I'm not really gonna order an investigation and start all of that," I can imagine that in itself; especially if the WODC should, because indeed, in other debates, the WODC has already been asked to do research. So I await the Minister's reply to that motion. The TBs hearings. The Minister said very clearly: I expect no delay. What I thought was very important to hear is that the victim is not at the privacy-sensitive parts of the hearing that go over the TBs. And yes, the victim will indeed have to sit in the hallway and then be brought in when those specific conditions, which are discussed in the interests of the victim, are in the interests of the victim. I found that an important fact, which was not quite clear in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u242	To Mr Dittrich: has he not heard me say that I do not need to go through the WODC, that it may be a limited investigation to see if there are any grounds since the extension of victim rights to look again at those conclusions of the WODC? And that can also be done by a second opinion from another party, that it can take the form of a letter advice, that it can be short? That execution test can also be limited to this category we are talking about today. I just wanted to make sure that Mr Dittrich understood me correctly, so it doesn't just have to be an extensive investigation by the WODC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u243	I have heard Mr Janssen explain that very clearly. I know from my contacts with people who work in practice that this two-stage structure is not really an urgent need that everyone is waiting for. I don't want to repeat the Minister's words, but I understand that you can talk about this academically for a very long time. We know that other countries have said: no, we are not doing it. In his term, Mr Janssen said: but we do not have to do what the neighbours want. I understand all that, but the point of view of the D66 Group is: we will see what happens with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u244	That with regard to the proposal. Maybe we'll come back to it in the second term with the minister. I am concerned whether Mr Dittrich will also see that, if we revise the Code of Criminal Procedure for a long time, this could be something we could at least discuss with each other: could it have added value on parts of the criminal proceedings, for example in the case of serious crimes? It is not a matter of making a choice now, but of ensuring that we have everything we need to be able to conduct the discussion on the basis of up-to-date information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u245	Yes, but I want to answer that again with a reference to the 2013 research report. This is about a more limited right of speech, and I agree entirely with Mr Janssen, but there are arguments in it to say that there are pluses and minuses, but the minuses, so the reasons for not doing so, weigh more. I wonder whether that will be different eight or nine years later, when that investigation is completed. So I'm not waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u246	But that's what I'm wondering. Hence my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u247	Perhaps the Minister will come up with a very important answer in his second term. Mr. Chairman. The privacy of victim data in the file is also important to me. The Minister said: that is quite complex; that cannot be free. All we have now is a hook in the law with that AMvB. I thought it was very important for the Minister to say explicitly: we will first sit down with the implementation organisations to discuss whether we can really do this and actually do it. Because we cannot have it all being introduced at some point and then not being handled properly in practice. That only leads to disappointment and who is responsible for it? In that respect, I understand the concerns expressed by Attorney General Otte in Trouw. I thought that the Minister was running over it very quickly, in the vein of: I can easily refute all of that. Because when you talk to people from practice, you notice that they are really worried about the implementation aspects, not just of this bill, but of everything we come up with in terms of legislation as a Second and First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I've had all the points, except for passing on the report form in vice cases. I have heard very clearly that the Minister is going to work to ensure that it is actually explained in a specific case if that form is not given. Well, we'll just have to wait and see. I assume this will also be involved in the evaluation of this bill. My group is going to think very carefully about this. Of course, we are going to listen to the Minister's second term. Next week you will hear the outcome of our deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u248	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for the first-term answers. Attendance at the hearing and the verdict is desirable, very desirable even for all parties, I think; also for the defendant. Let's talk about the verdict first. The accusation of a guilty party is made as a judge in the verdict. That's the first time. For that, you have to respect the innocence claim and are in fact especially questioning. The blame is important when someone is guilty. By the way, acquittal is also important if someone is innocent. You'd rather just make that accusation in person. The same goes, of course, for the sitting. That's where you want to question and question as a judge. You don't want the victim talking to an empty chair. A criminal trial like this is just about accountability. You do that physically in person. Communication is about much more than just image and sound. It's about smelling, feeling, proximity, context. I was a little shocked when the Minister said that this presence obligation can also be implemented digitally. Anyway, I have to be consistent: it's up to the judge. I am constantly arguing that this judge should have the room to deliver customized work, so let me have faith in that. I sincerely hope that the judge will only apply this in very exceptional cases. You want to talk to someone physically. Then the ritual, the trial, the symbolism of the criminal trial can come to its own. And that's not digital. That was the most important point I wanted to make. On many other points, I would like to repeat my colleagues. I welcome the commitments and the move towards this Chamber that this Minister has made in the first term. That has happened on a lot of points. I've written out a lot of them, which I'm not going to read to all of them. I will mention a few, for example the two exceptions to the obligation to be present. My group, too, finds this obligation to be the most difficult. But if the judge can fill in those grounds of exception at the time that "unless" is at issue, if the judge thinks that it serves no purpose to withdraw the defendant from the hearing, because he has to send him back to the cell complex right away, because "that's just not gonna be him," then that space has to be there. I've heard the Minister in such a way that that space is there. My group welcomes that. There's gonna be a letter about that two-phase structure. I had written 'positive', but Mr Janssen's motion seemed to be saying the same thing again. I'd like to see it better picked out, too. In practice, it's all fine, I've seen it with my own eyes, but the more you put the victim in position, the more this is gonna wring. I would like to see further considerations, without going into the question of a whole set of research projects. The following points are all left aside, apart from an important point on which I had prepared a motion for a resolution. But the Minister began by saying that the introduction of the law will first be discussed with the implementing organisations. They must have sufficient time to put things in order. My motion fell right into the trash. This is an illustration of my satisfaction with this debate. I will report that to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u250	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions in detail and for the explanatory statement. The victim's position is more firmly anchored. It is about recognition, information, being heard, also for the next of kin. The victim is seen and heard. The appearance of suspects in serious cases contributes to this and is important for the victim. It contributes to the defendant's sense of crime. The suspect is a suspect and not a perpetrator until the blame is established. The innocence charge is important for the VVD group. The VVD Group therefore assumes that judges stress this at the hearing so that there can be no confusion about it. The VVD Group is pleased to hear that the date of implementation will depend on the date on which the organisations are ready. The VVD Group believes it is important that if the victim does not want to see the defendant, it can be decided by the judge in court. The judge has the direction to protect so that a video connection can be used. Finally, the capacity, the experience, the session. The costs are covered, the Minister said. At the request of the VVD Group, what will happen if this is not the case in practice, the VVD Group was promised that this aspect will be taken into account in the evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u252	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and clarifications and also for the commitment he has made. If we vote for the bill next week, we will be one step further in strengthening the position of the victims in the criminal proceedings, and that is urgently needed. I have a few points when it comes to the obligation to appear. All the groups have asked questions about this, including the CDA Group. The Minister has given answers and has stuck with us to carefully assess whether the infringement has been legitimised in serious cases affecting the rule of law. This is also done in relation to the interests of the victims and the interests of society. I quote Mr Recourt, who says that this includes a physical presence. I totally agree with him. I understand the Minister in such a way that, by way of exception, they call it 'next best', but I would like to call that 'in exceptional circumstances'. I would like to make that clear. Then there is the second point. The position of the victims and the privacy. Mr Dittrich has asked me and I will come back to the privacy of the victims of crime. The White Paper on Victim Support in the Netherlands states that it is not sufficiently protected. What is the Minister doing to ensure the privacy of the victims in the criminal proceedings? How does the Minister monitor the cooperation between the Office and the other organisations in the criminal justice chain? You have gone into that, but I would like to get more specific information, also in view of the secrecy blunder of the public prosecutor in April 2019 with the photo of the Utrecht star witness Nabil B. You entered into a conversation in 2019 and in 2020, but did it happen afterwards? We want to be able to gain a little more confidence in the approach and to monitor it. You started with the introduction date. Through the President, I have also heard Mr Recourt say that it will not necessarily be on 1 July 2021. I have stressed that the most involved organisations really need to be ready for implementation. The Minister referred to an inventory that has already been done and I am curious whether the Minister has the confidence to implement it shortly afterwards or whether it may take a very long time, because that is the condition that the Minister himself has now placed in this Chamber when it comes to implementation. Finally, the evaluation. It has become clear to the CDA Group that it will take place in two years' time, focusing on feasibility and effectiveness. Others have already indicated this. The increase in the number of speakers and the corresponding burden of proceedings is an issue for us. Just like the burden of litigation resulting from the obligation of appearance that we talked about. Finally, the other extra use of FTE in the implementation. Then we also think of the removal of personal data from the files; that is also a job. I believe that you have promised Mrs Blécourt that if there is a problem with the evaluation, there will not be an evaluation, but that you will solve or succeed the problem with the Minister of Finance. That is what we will read back in the report, and we will stick to it in the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u255	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for answering our questions and we thank Mrs De Boer for the very valuable, substantive addition to the Minister's answers. Our impression in this debate is that Mrs De Boer clearly has a lot of practical experience on this subject. The point that, as far as we are concerned, remains of arbitrariness is that it depends on the obligation of appearance of the suspect, whether temporarily attached or not. We can agree with Mr Dittrich's observations, who, like our group, feels that the Minister is very light-hearted about the practical reservations raised by my almost naming Attorney General Otte this week. We would like to hear a better reflection from the Minister in the second term. As has been said, this proposal is, as far as our group is concerned, a step in the right direction in improving victims' rights in criminal proceedings. There are therefore no motions from our group today, Mr President. Our group will take a positive attitude towards this proposal. We look forward to the Minister's reply to the remaining questions in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u256	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a good debate. This is also evident from the second-term response. Some of your members quoted commitments and agreements that we have been able to make. But there are still a number of questions and concerns left. If you look at the bill, they focus on the content of the obligation to appear. Let me say a few things about that. Let me also be very clear that the introduction of the obligation of appearance in my view does not affect innocence. Any suggestion that we might nibble or nibble on it, I am really far from it. I say this very strongly in the direction of Mr Janssen, who made a point of this in his second term. I do not know if that was entirely fair, but I would like to emphasise it here once again. When I look at the countries around us, take Germany, take France, they are just normal states of law, where you are guilty only after the judge has spoken. There they have an obligation to appear in serious crimes. I really do not see that, if we introduced this into the Netherlands, we would be failing to comply with that important principle of our rule of law. I'm gonna underline that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u258	I didn't mean to be fair or unfair, let me put it first. I was concerned that in the drafting in the explanatory memorandum and what was largely repeated in the reply by the Minister, the examples mentioned there are very much based on a suspect who needs to be imprinted on everything, etc. I have mentioned all these examples, including in my first term. I have just said that it creates a certain appearance, because there is no mention of innocent suspects. They are not actually coming back at all, not in the whole explanatory statement. I just wanted to make that picture clear, even as a suggestion. It really stirs up that image. I get it from the point of view of the victims, but there's another side too. The Secretary of State for Legal Protection is both sides. I did not mean to doubt the Minister's sincerity, but the written text did give the impression very much, because the other side was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u259	I always take these things with me. I'm always critical. My point is, it's never been my intention. When I look back at what it says, we don't mix the unsubs and the suspects. That is what happens in the debate, but I think we have been very good at it. The question is whether anyone is found guilty. That is a factual question, which can be answered with yes, but also with no. The question then arises as to what the level of punishment will be. If someone is not guilty, there will be no punishment. I repeat it once more here; I believe that these are the constitutional principles that we apply. You can always keep me sharp on that. My only point is that I got the impression that if you took the step to introduce an apparition obligation, you'd be cutting back on the innocence charge. And I really don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u260	I didn't want to do that. But let me say this: if the Minister may read the debate back or read it again, and looks at that list again, including in the explanatory statement, and looks at what needs to be achieved with this obligation of appearance, then it is going very much towards a suspect who is ultimately found guilty. 'Cause a suspect who's innocent can't imagine what he's done to the victim. In that editor there might be a bit of a bias towards standing up for the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u261	I think you're right. In case someone's innocent, you don't have to print him anything. Implicitly, of course, it was about someone who was found guilty. The fact that someone was present at the hearing then makes a contribution. Well, anyway. Then we agree on that, too. I'll read it back. I think it is particularly important to the future. We need to keep it sharp in the future, even in the further development of what we are about to do, if your Chamber were to adopt this bill by a majority, which I hope will be the case. The one about the principle. Then there were questions about the concern that this might lead to unsustainable situations at the hearing. Then we're talking about the processual. In my view, the two grounds for exception in the law provide sufficient room for judges to find a solution. There are two ways to do that. The one way is that of the major interests, where disease is also included. Disease can, of course, be physical, but there can also be a serious disorder, so that someone can't keep quiet or go crazy or do very crazy things. There's been talk of someone starting with feces... They are, of course, examples from practice. But then there's often more to it. Then there is also something mentally that is not entirely correct. There may also be talk that in fact all process parties say that something does not make sense in this way. That is in paragraph 2, about the desirability and the necessity. Even then, as a judge, you will have a basis to deviate from it. I think we've discussed this sufficiently in the legal process. It is therefore recorded for legal history and this can then be taken into account. They will be exceptional situations, but I believe that in those exceptional situations and in extremes, the court will be able to find a solution. Mr. Chairman. Then there were the comments and questions by Mr Recourt and Mr Rietkerk on the video link. I have made a distinction there between the theoretical or legal possibility and the interpretation of this bill and its purpose. This is about high exceptions. The idea of the bill is precisely that in the event of serious crimes and serious suspicions, you have the defendant in session. Mr. Chairman. So much for the open points as regards the obligation to appear. I would like to say something about the introduction of the bill. Let me be exactly in that. I have not yet decided on the date of entry into force. That's what the conversation's about. We did a first inventory. I want that to happen in a good way. We want that bill to work in practice soon. Then you need all these organizations and then they need to be able to work with them. That should not take years, because it would also be crazy in the democratic process if the Chamber adopted a law that turns out to be a dead letter. We're just gonna take enough time to do it properly. That's what I'm talking about. Then there's a part of the bill that deals with privacy. That is an open point which is particularly complicated. On all the other points we have done a performance test, we have done an impact analysis, we have looked at the extra costs of people and resources and we have allocated money to do so. Then it's just a matter of caring for training, getting the organisations ready and making protocols. There is one part of the law, which is about the privacy-sensitive data, which is really more complicated. I can therefore imagine that this law will enter into force within a year and a half, but that the development of this AMvB might actually take more time. That's a complex part of it. Indeed, there is an AMvB process to go through, it still has to go through both chambers and through the Council of State. So that just takes a little extra time, to indicate the different speeds that we use in it. We are going to work on it, but we also like to do it carefully and in a way that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u262	I asked how that is consistent with the treatment of the Code of Criminal Procedure as a whole. It would be nice if we could discuss all these implementation issues, and therefore have the data, when dealing with criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u263	That's right. That's what I've been puzzled about in my head. Of course, that depends on a number of things. We are going to evaluate two years after entry into force, but it may well be that this entry into force will take a number of months, perhaps a year. Two years later, an evaluation will be carried out. Such an evaluation often takes time. Then maybe it's another year after that. This is an exceptional legal process. It's now with the Council of State. It usually takes three months. I'm guessing this might take them a little more than a year. Then we'll have to process all the comments at the Ministry again. Normally that is also a matter of two or three months, but it may take more time here. Maybe across the street, in the legal process, they'll need multiple rounds for that, too. It's not just any law. It really is a huge legislative process. Maybe that evaluation will be there when it comes to treatment. But I'm afraid to say that with certainty. It is also fair to say that, if there is a new Code of Criminal Procedure and an evaluation of the need to adapt victims' rights, then there is again the possibility to adapt that new Code of Criminal Procedure to parts. My feeling is that it could happen in time, but if it doesn't, there really are other ways of adapting it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to Mr Janssen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u264	Mr Janssen is getting up already.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u265	Honesty commands me to say that I continue to find this a complicated motion. The motion calls for an update of a WODC study and an execution test. I see on the one hand that Mr Janssen is trying in the oral explanation of his motion to make it small by saying that it can also be a letter opinion or a second opinion, but that is not really what the motion asks for. So I'm leaning towards dissuading the motion, but maybe he wants to arrest her. Then this is what I'm saying to him. I would like to make another round with the implementing authorities, the judiciary, OM, to ask, on the basis of the 2013 investigation, whether they see any reason to come up with other conclusions on that discussion that we had recently had on that two-stage model. I would also like to give some more coloring from my ministry as to what exactly that would mean if you did so in terms of execution sequences. I'll send you a letter. I think that we will be very upset, without having to update an entire study or take an extensive execution test. You can still see whether you want to put the motion to the vote, but this may well be in line with what Mr Janssen is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u266	I was not so enthusiastic about the Minister's first commitment to the letter, because the section on whether something has changed, the WODC piece, was missing. It was kind of like saying to someone you want to date, "we'll go to Paris for the weekend," and the other says, "I'll go alone and send you a postcard." I didn't mean to. May I understand the Minister as follows? I'm not looking for conclusions from the D.A. or the judiciary and so on. I'm looking for the impact of extending victim rights on the conclusions from the WODC. So it's not so much about the conclusions, so it's about "we want something different now than then," but it's more about mapping. Not judging, let me put it this way. That's different from "we want it or we don't want it," because I don't have that judgment either. I hope the Minister understands that I am not looking for final judgments from these organizations, such as: do you want it or not? But it is a question of what the significance of eight years of extending victim rights in relation to the fundamental debate on the place of the right to speak has been. That is actually the core of the two-phase process. Do you do it within the hearing investigation or do you do it separately in a punitive hearing? Is there any influence on that? In addition, the execution test may be limited to the parts I mentioned. It doesn't have to be in this motion for me. I'll tell the Minister I'll hold the motion anyway. I guess we'll figure it out and see what I'm talking about. We don't have to do that now, because then we're all gonna have to fill out those statements to get back home. So we don't have to do that now, but I think we'll get very far. I have faith in that. I think we're gonna get very far, so I'll take the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u267	At the request of Mr Janssen, I propose that his motion be retained (35349, letter E). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u268	I'm gonna write a letter. Let's spar outside the broadcast for a little bit. In my opinion, we also want to know from the organisations whether they run into problems, otherwise it is the question of which problem we solve. If there is no problem in practice, it will all become very academic. I think Mr Janssen might be able to take away that concern. I'm gonna write a letter. I would like to put my ear to him to see if there are any wishes or ingredients in it that I can take with me, to ensure that there is a letter that at least provides sufficient basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u269	We are also interested in the relationship with the evaluation, but that is not my question. I asked a question about the issue of privacy of crime victims. This question is also related to the White Paper on Victim Support, which shows that there is insufficient protection. I mentioned the example from 2019. My question was: what is the minister doing towards the prosecution and the criminal justice chain, besides talking to parties? I'm asking through the chairman. At least I missed the answer, so that question is still open to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u270	We'll do a few things. Let me sketch it out for you. Part of it is the organization. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office has recently adapted the correspondence with victims, which is added to the criminal record, so that victims' address details are no longer automatically recorded. You don't need legislation for that, but you can use this way of dealing with documents and designing processes in the organization to prevent that. This is the subject of constant discussion between me, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Victim's Aid Netherlands to strengthen each other in it. That's the one thing we do. Two is that I'm going to look now on the basis of this bill... That's kind of the stick behind the door. That is probably where the amendment came from from the two petitioners across the street. They said, "It's all nice and nice, but what do you buy for these nice intentions when we see things go wrong here and there? Don't we need a harder legal basis to enforce that?" That also means that I am now working with the Public Prosecutor's Office and other parties to look at the following. If we want to hit an AMvB and make it a little more concrete what kind of information we want to get out of files, we need to refine it. That's actually the other track. On the one hand, talking about the organization. What can we do without legislation and regulations? The other track is how we do it in an orderly way if we want legislation and regulation. Then I came to the content of the evaluation, for which Mr Rietkerk gave a number of points of interest. He found me very sorry on those two pillars: does the bill do what it has to do and is it feasible in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u271	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-13-eerstekamer-7.u272	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I note that Mr Janssen has retained his motion 35349, letter E. Then we came to the end of the meeting. I thank all the Members. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
