ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u1	We will continue with the discussion of the Defence budget for the year 2022. We arrived at that discussion when the Minister replied in the first term. It's 7:20. The Minister has prepared a nice story. "His maiden speech" is even called. That would mean that there could be no interruptions, but I'm going to allow them. I'll allow six per person. That's spacious, I think. There's no need for these interruptions. But keep it in mind, because I'm going to keep it strictly. I'm afraid we'll still be here at 2:00 tonight. There is a question from Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u2	Yeah, we won't have a discussion about it later. Is that just an interruption in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u3	How you commit it, do it, but one question is one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u4	Oh, okay. It's good I'm gonna ask you this one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u5	It's a matter of porridge. In the first term, it went very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u6	Having said that, I would like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u7	Madam President. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for dealing with the Defence budget 2022 yesterday. There was a great commitment and, above all, a great appreciation for the men and women who are willing to commit themselves, to risk the freedom of their 17,5 million compatriots, and to want to commit themselves and run the risk of a better world, because that is what is at issue every day. I wholeheartedly share the great appreciation that has been expressed. Of the qualifications that have passed, one remark by Mr Van Wijngaarden remained with me most. He said, "We've got to get to DOD first and get to the point where we have a chance to get to the plus." I think that's a very good characteristic of what we're doing right now. Luckily, this is already happening. During the past cabinet period, almost at the end of this period, we have managed to increase the Defence budget by EUR 2.1 billion. That is, of course, a substantial improvement. For a small part, we are also able to catch up with the biggest delays that are common to the Defense Department. But we must also realise that a large proportion of the 2.1 billion has been used and specifically allocated to strengthen military capacity and weapons systems. An example of this is that nine additional F-35s have been purchased. That was also important, because the backbone of our Defence Organization, of our armed forces, is strong. It is very good to keep it strong too, so that when we go back to that plus, as Mr Van Wijngaarden said, we also have a good basis. Because there have been a number of qualifications of Defence as an almost soul-blowing organization, I think it is good to put something against that. I think the Defense Department is a giant who can get back to power even more quickly if it gets the possibilities. But at the moment, I think the DOD already has a very impressive backbone. Once the F-35s are handed over, we'll have 46 fighter planes of the most modern kind. We have different types of helicopters, such as battle helicopters and transport helicopters; together there are 80. We're about to have four unmanned aircraft. We have a total of 21 surface ships and submarines, and there are another 3 in order. We have the Marine Corps, which, apart from its own humanities, also has its own range of transport options. The same goes, of course, for the Corps of Command. We have the STUDY and the Royal Marechaussee. And with the army we still have two special Patriot installations, which over the years have proved their worth in the defense regime. We have 24 armored haters, there are 6,000 vehicles in order from the Army and we have 700 armoured vehicles. All in all, there's a very strong backbone at the DOD. What matters now is that we get all those things filled with trained, trained and available staff and that we also get the material readiness of everything we have in order. That is now, for the coming period, the great challenge. But there is a very strong basis to build on. Mr. Chairman. Defence is defence, defence of what we have built together and the generations before us in our country: our freedom, our rule of law and everything we would like to pass on to the next generations, which we grant the same. I have already said that with our armed forces we have a unique organisation with unique resources. It is an organization which, apart from everything I have just mentioned in terms of resources, has 41,000 tough men and women who are willing to stand as soldiers when it really comes to it. They do so together with their civilian colleagues, who also play a very important role in the Defence Organisation, and with the reserveists. The 6,500 reserveists form the Dutch Defence Organisation with the military and the civilian colleagues. That's what the defense budget is about, which you're handling this week. In a world dominated by the United States, China and Russia, our armed forces cannot defend us on their own. We cannot do this together with the other European countries. To this end, Europe is not in a position to be militaryly and politically divided. I will come back to the European Union and its distribution in Europe. The Netherlands and the other European countries depend on the United States. Fortunately, the United States has been integrated into NATO. It is a cooperation in the alliance of North American and European countries that is capable of defending us, defending us in Europe. The United States accounts for 70% of NATO capacity. This costs them 3.5% of their gross domestic product per year. The defence expenditure of the European countries is far behind that. That is, of course, a threat to the alliance. That is why the NATO countries agreed a standard of not 3.5%, but 2%. In 2014, they agreed to grow there in Wales in ten years. Our percentage is 1.5%. If we don't do something in the next few years, we'll fall below 1.4% in the next few years. Compliance with the agreement we made in 2014 to reach 2% in 2024 would cost the Netherlands more than 5 billion a year. If we do not want to get out of hand in Europe and reach the average of the European NATO countries, it would cost us some 4 billion extra per year. But that doesn't mean we're here yet. If we have done so and we are all in Europe at 2% and are somewhat more in balance with the United States, then we must realise that the United States believes that Europe must first and foremost take care of its own defence. This requires an effective European defence society, which is still insufficient. In the meantime, America's defence attention is increasingly drawn to China. China is the second economy of the world, has the largest navy in the world and is rapidly developing the land and air force. They are also rapidly producing nuclear weapons. China is also relevant to the European defence, which I will come up with later, but first about Russia. We experience this threat from Russia every day: in the air and at sea; in the corridor of the Baltic countries, Belarus and Ukraine, but also to the south of Europe. Russia uses hybrid warfare, for example by making great use of disinformation to disrupt democracies. Where European countries in the Sahel region are committed to stability and security, Russia is doing exactly the opposite. That threat we are facing is also and increasingly a cyber threat and also a threat in space. Businesses, knowledge institutions and public authorities in Western countries face cyber attacks from Russia and China on a daily and large scale. The purpose of these cyber attacks is to steal information and disrupt stability in our area. Where our physical defence is still credible thanks to NATO and the United States, our cyber defence is not yet, in my opinion, and that is a great concern. I can tell you that in the six, almost seven weeks I've been back on the DOD, I've been working on that cyber threat almost every day. How can we resist them as well as possible? The same goes for our defense for what's in space; trying to resist as best we can. In space, we have set up Western satellite systems for communication and observation, but they are vulnerable to competing satellite systems set up by Russia and China. One is intended to disrupt our satellite systems and the other is about the possibility of firing satellites that they are not on. That is also a threat, far from our bed, but therefore no less real. The defence organisation is also needed every day in the Netherlands. Corona showed it to me, too. If there's a pandemic, then defense is of great value. We need to be able to respond to this at certain times by the civil authorities. This also applies to the Netherlands when there is natural violence, such as in Limburg, but also in Haiti and Albania. Then we are also there to join in on an international scale. What can we, as a government, as a parliament, expect from our armed forces, our defence organisation? Firstly, that is what we have put in our Constitution: the defence of the European territory of the Netherlands and of the Dutch countries and public bodies in the Caribbean. The protection and promotion of the international legal order and stability is the second point in the Constitution. And the third is to support the civilian authorities whenever necessary. Secondly, we can expect our armed forces to ensure that we fulfil our international obligations, particularly in the NATO context, towards the United States. I say it quite frankly, and I have already written it to the Chamber: the defence organisation cannot now meet these legitimate expectations. The organisation is vulnerable because material readiness is below 50% and employability is too low. There is insufficient investment in staff, in renewal, in sustainability of housing, in practicability. There is also insufficient investment in operational support, in stocks, in conservation and in IT. That is the situation at the moment. And I'm not talking about investing more in cyber and space, as I just mentioned. Defense needs to recover. As Van Wijngaarden said, defence must come out of the blue and then it must be renewed. And one can't do without the other. Everything that needs to be done is, of course, directly linked to the financial resources, with the deficit of 4 or 5 billion a year. It is just how you want to see it; the European average or NATO-2%. The expectations we, the government and the parliament, have of our armed forces, have never been lowered. I also think that lowering those expectations is not a real option. In those years, the DOD tried to keep all the balls in the air and fill one hole with another. There is no "no" in the Defense Department, so if something is expected of us, we try to get that to the left or right with some sticking and cutting as well as possible. I don't think it's going to be like this anymore. I think that if our people are asked to do their dangerous work, they deserve to be well trained and trained, to have access to the equipment, equipment, armament, support and information they need and to be well rewarded. Mr President, this is an introduction. I would now like to turn to the questions put by the Members of Parliament and the comments that have been made. I will try to combine them, but I always do so as much per spokesperson as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr Van Dijk has a question following your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you to the Minister for his introduction, in which he has nicely listed what the armed forces can and do. At the same time, he knows better than anyone that the debate on the budget is not new. This has been going on for years. The Minister also clearly says that if there is no 4 billion added, the organisation must shrink. I asked in my speech whether the Minister would like to anticipate these two scenarios. Let's put it this way. A scenario in which those 4 billion will come and a scenario in which those 4 billion will not come. Isn't that realistic, considering that governance is forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u10	I'm not gonna do that. We have already said on several occasions what needs to be done. We have made it very clear for the longer term, 2035, in the Defence vision. I have indicated what needs to be done for the shorter period of time in order to get things in order and to reap the full benefits of what we have at our disposal. Everything we have at our disposal contributes substantially to meeting the commitments we have entered into in the context of NATO, because only in NATO can we maintain our own security and protect ourselves. And the other thing: yes, these are the various tasks set out in the Constitution. And I'm also glad they're in the Constitution. I believe that we are obliged to help to protect and maintain the international legal order in the world. And I think we should help the civilian authorities if we need to. So I'm not gonna come up with a scenario to build that down or reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Van Dijk, before you continue, I don't think you've been in yet, but I've just agreed on six interruptions with colleagues. You'll be advised not to do this, but that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u12	I did miss that part. So I had prepared a long series of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u13	I had a hunch, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u14	I was afraid I'd get a position. In this case! Mr. Chairman. I find the Minister's answer curious for two reasons. One. He knows as well as I do that in the short term not EUR 4 billion will be added to the defense. There won't be any in the short term. For that reason alone, you should start thinking about an alternative scenario. Then the other reason I find it strange. The Netherlands, of course, cooperates with other countries. So why keep doing everything? That is a weak spot of Defence: and fighter jets, as well as tanks, and submarines, are leased tanks; I know that as well as cyber, very relevant. You can see it beeps and cracks. I would like to comment on those two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u15	Because what we all bring in is what is needed within NATO. Look, we do not financially meet the NATO standard, but we do have a lot of resources available that are very valuable to NATO. And with more money that we need, and I hope that we get it, we can also make sure that we can maintain the human and material readiness, the perseverance, for longer, so that all that is sorted out. Then we will be even more valuable to NATO, and then we will be able to do so at 2% a year; perhaps a little less if you start from the European average of the NATO countries, so that we contribute to the conservation of NATO, which is heavily dependent on the United States. This will enable us to maintain the most important thing for ourselves, namely that we are protected and protected from outside attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr President, my third and then I will stop. Then I can only conclude that this Minister, too, is not the first to opt for padding and wetting. And that the staff is the victim, the lockpoint, with low wages, poor equipment, and unsafe situations. Because there won't be 4 billion in the short term, and you want to keep doing everything. That's not gonna work anymore; it's gonna squeak and squeak and crack. You must make choices, otherwise things will not go well, initially not for the staff. Please acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u17	No, absolutely not. We're not getting that 4 billion in the morning; I realize that very well. We also do not have the absorption capacity to process such an amount immediately. No, I think it will have to be that in the next cabinet period, in a four-year period, we will grow to that 4 billion, rather than 5 billion. And then, with all that we already have, we can get that human and material readiness and the perseverance in order. And for me, the very first thing I have on the list when that money becomes available is the improvement of the payroll building. In other words, pay better, especially from the lower ranks in the Defense Department. And the second is a modern staff policy, where we no longer come to all kinds of things on the basis of seniority, but looking at the individual's potential for development, which stimulates and benefits from it as an organisation. Human resources policy is my priority, but it is part of what is needed in its entirety: human readiness, material readiness and perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u18	I thank the Minister for his introduction. I also heard him say that the extra money, which many hundreds of millions of extra investments have been made in defence in recent years, has mainly been spent on the additional nine F-35s. I also heard him draw the conclusion: among other things, we have not invested enough in personnel. I looked back at the press releases when those new funds became available. The minister's predecessor said: we are now going to invest this money in a greater operational readiness of Defence. How is it that after four years we have to come to the conclusion that this has not been achieved? Haven't the wrong priorities been set?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u19	I didn't say it went mainly to the F-35s. I said that it also went to capacity, and I mentioned the F-35 as an example. There was also a substantial amount of money going to buy nine more. But it is true that the past cabinet period has used that amount of 2.1 billion that we have received, except for what additional capacity has been used, to ensure that, where we had fallen off with that operational readiness, that personnel readiness and perseverance, that we would improve a bit. And far from enough; it still needs to be improved much further. It must be at such a level that we can deliver across the board what we have, what we are asked to do and what we have committed ourselves to. So that 2.1 billion minus the expansion of capacity is intended for charity and is used for charity, but is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u20	You can see mostly that there are still 9,000 vacancies. One in five military positions in Defense have not been fulfilled. This is not an improvement compared to four years ago. And more than half of the equipment is on the side and is not usable. So the general operational readiness of Defense has not improved, despite the many hundreds of millions. Then my question. We're not sitting here looking at what the coalition parties are going to decide in the next few weeks. We are here for the 2022 budget. Why does the Minister not make room for at least prioritising the staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u21	Many hundreds of millions are not enough. It takes billions to get things right. And why is there no new policy? Because it's a missionary cabinet. So I can't come up with any new policy at all. This cabinet is to ensure that what has been deployed is continued. We are awaiting a new cabinet. This will be possible under the new coalition agreement and the opportunities created by it. It's recorded in the Defense Note. That will be discussed here with the Chamber. It can then be carried out if the House agrees by a majority. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to comment on the other point made by Mrs Piri. She talked about 9,000 vacancies. I heard Mr Jansen mention 10,000 vacancies yesterday. That's not true. There are 3,600 vacancies. But what is the case? We have some vacant functions. That is because, for example, there are people in training. They'll come back after training. There are people in a reintegration process because something happened. They need to get back in place. There are people in between functions. There's a lot of rotation in the military. So some are between two functions. We also have some vacant functions for which there is no money. So we just can't turn it off as a vacancy. We can't attract people to that. And we have a number of functions that are filled by citizens. What remains, what really needs to be filled as a vacancy at the moment, are 3,600 vacancies. I therefore ask the Chamber not to speak about 9 000 or 10 000, because that is simply not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u22	We're just using the numbers we have in front of us. We got it from the Ministry. But apart from that, look at the payroll building, for example. It's about something that was already in the terms of employment. They were agreed between 2018 and 2020. In recent years, commitments have been made by the outgoing cabinet towards the Chamber. Then it is not a question of a new policy. Surely you cannot start to screen with the fact that you are outgoing and say that this means that you cannot make a choice, for example, to settle this for next year with the 2022 budget? That has nothing to do with new policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u23	Oh, yes, I do. What Mrs Piri asked me in her first interruption had to do with new policies. Now she says: yes, but things were agreed years ago. Well, the things that were agreed years ago have been implemented, as far as financial resources allow. I'll be on the staff section later. I will therefore say that there has been a substantial improvement in the financial position of the military in recent years. I'm not okay with that. There's more to be done. I have just indicated what needs to be done about this, particularly for the lower ranks, up to and including captain. There's a catch-up. There is a need for improvement. But it's not just that that has to happen. The whole HR system also needs to be renewed, because much more needs to be done on the basis of individual qualities and to encourage them, so that they can then be used as an organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u24	The Minister had previously indicated that Defence is no longer able to have a good answer to the many threats that surround the Netherlands. He repeats this tonight in more or less similar terms. That is a very worrying situation. If you're in such a situation, shouldn't you first choose to use Defense for the defence of its own territory? That's hard enough as it is! This worrying situation, which the Minister does recognise, is not compatible with the efforts of defence in Mali, with EU projects in Lebanon, and you name it all. We're in a situation where choices need to be made. I really want to urge the Minister to choose the most important thing: the defence of our own territory. And even that doesn't work out well!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u25	It's about making choices. Mr Van Wijngaarden referred to Article 97 of the Constitution. It simply states that contributing to the international legal order is a task for the military. That's just what it says. Surely it is unthinkable for me to say: it is in the Constitution, but we are not going to do that, because we think that other is important? Surely it cannot be that if there is misery with corona or water pollution in Limburg, we say: we do not, because we are mainly in favour of the defence of the territory of the Netherlands? In addition, the defence of the Dutch territory no longer works that way today. We can only defend our territory in cooperation with other countries in Europe and with the North American countries Canada and the United States. We will have to stick to the three issues set out in the Constitution and to the commitments made in an alliance. I also disagree with the way Mr Fritsma talks about Mali. Mali is part of the Sahel. The Sahel is just below Europe. If it's a chaos in that area, you get a constant influx of people from Africa to Europe. I have always understood what Mr Fritsma is trying to do here in the Chamber when it comes to immigration. That is not to allow a large stream from Africa to come to Europe via the Sahel. I think that if we, as the Netherlands, contribute internationally to stability in the Sahel, we are doing very good work for Europe and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u26	Look at what's happened lately. Look at the stakes in Afghanistan. Look at Mali. We know that Dutch soldiers were active there earlier. The Court of Auditors has really cut that off. It's turned out to be an unclear mission. We had no business there. It wasn't effective. Is there really no beginning of some kind of evaluation at the cabinet or at this minister's office on the occasion of Afghanistan and all these foreign missions? How are all these foreign missions coming along? What's DOD for? Isn't it better to set different priorities? The Minister recognizes that if you continue with those foreign missions, it will be at the expense of other things that you can use the Defense Department for. You are talking about border surveillance, or you are talking about a flow of migrants from Africa to the Netherlands. Well, these migratory flows are never stopped by the EU, certainly not at the external borders. We are now in a situation where anyone who says the word "asylum" can come in, including terrorists. They're already being taken off the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u27	Mr. Fritsma, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u28	My question is: does the cabinet or does this minister really not see any reason for changing course to simply allow our national security to prevail over all those foreign missions? That is exactly what needs to be done. If he doesn't make that choice, it's just at the expense of our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u29	I am in favour of a controlled immigration policy, part of which is that people who can contribute to Dutch society on their own should be given the opportunity to do so and that people who need protection under the Refugee Convention should also be given protection. If you want to manage that properly, you need an adequate asylum policy and you need to reduce the big differences in the world, difference in prosperity, difference in security. In areas where it's really bad, you try to let it go better. The Netherlands never tries that alone. The Netherlands does not only go to Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali or anywhere else. We always go there as part of an international coalition, usually organized by the UN or with the agreement of the UN. Those missions are, I think, generally successful. Even if they are not successful, it is important that we try to do so as an international community. The fact is that Iraq has defeated ISIS. The fact is that in Afghanistan Al-Qaeda has been defeated. It is also the fact that in Mali we are making an important contribution to the future security of Europe through a United Nations mission, in which 80 countries participate and also the French play a strong role. I therefore believe that, in addition to the fact that there is something in the Constitution, which is already an argument in itself, there is also, for substantive reasons, all the introduction to continue with what we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u30	I thought it was a rather alienating debate yesterday, because there were all kinds of coalition parties arguing for all kinds of extra spending, while we are discussing a budget for next year. I find it even more strange now, because I hear the minister himself, who is of a party that has been in power in the Netherlands for 11 years, say that there must be 5 billion to do what they have written down in their vision. It doesn't make any choices that GroenLinks doesn't agree with, but well, it's the cabinet's vision to keep doing everything. We don't have enough money for that. We need 5 billion for this, but for next year's budget there is no trace of that money in sight. We all have to wait and see if that comes out of the coalition negotiations as a miracle. How does the Minister look at that? Is it a wish or does he have information from the formation table that there will be 5 billion more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u31	We had elections in March of this year. Since then, negotiations have been under way on a new coalition agreement, although I have read that they would only be in progress for five weeks. These negotiations will determine the framework, the scope, for the next four years. That there are parties, that there are groups, that there are spokesmen from political groups here, that take into account that coming period, that indicate what is important to them during that coming period, especially tonight and yesterday what is important to Defence, I take it for granted. The 5 billion I have mentioned is not because we want to bring 5 billion to NATO, but because we depend on the United States for our own security. We need those countries. With these countries, we have agreed to grow to that 2% over a period of ten years. We committed ourselves to this in 2014 in Wales. I could have imagined that you, too, would take that into account. I think it would be very reasonable for you to think: how can we grow there in the coming cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u32	I like fair politics. Suppose you're working at the Department of Defense and you think you're making way too little money or you're working under conditions where the buildings you're working in are slowly collapsing, and you hear the Minister say, "We're all gonna take care of it because we're gonna grow to 5 billion over the next four years, but there's nothing in it for next year. Then what can you count on? Then what's gonna happen? That's totally shady, isn't it? Or you're thinking, "Well, that's gonna be fine, 'cause there's gonna be five billion more." Then it'll be a disappointment if it isn't. Or it's not, and then you're empty-handed. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u33	I talked about 5 and 4 billion. That is the growth towards the European average, the average of the European NATO countries. I think it is perfectly normal to talk about this here. And as for those employees of Defense, we have 41,000 soldiers in our country. Those are motivated men and women who want to work for the Defense Department. I would like to make a commitment to this, and the cabinet also wants to do so in order to ensure that where the reward needs to be improved, that will also be achieved. Only, to realize new things, you have to pursue new policies. And you can't expect a missionary cabinet to have a budget with a new policy. I have to deal with the financial frameworks that have been in place during the past cabinet period and with what has become extra available during that period, for example through the Hermans motion, in the latest General Reviews. But that's it. If you're gonna make improvements, you're gonna have to do it in a new cabinet period. And that starts with the year 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u34	There's a Defence Note made by the previous cabinet, a coalition that's about to move on. I'd hate for that note to turn upside down again. None of it's been realized. Then you can make a new one, but then you don't realize anything. Then there'll be another cabinet. It's time we started doing things, isn't it? The time of standstill is over, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u35	Surely it is not the case that all those things that I mentioned at the beginning, everything we have at our disposal in the army, the air force, the navy, the Royal Marechaussee and the STUDY, have come out of the sky? It's been hard working to do that. There are many people who make sure that can be used. It is up to us to make it possible for them to use that more than they are doing right now. And as far as that Defence vision is concerned, that Defence vision has been established and is looking at 2035. But every time, at a new cabinet period, you get another Defence Note based on what's in the coalition agreement. That will happen this time too. Last time that happened. The cabinet, which is now nearing its end, has added 2.1 billion to the Defence budget. I think that is an important step forward. Further steps forward are needed. I hope they will be put in the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u36	There is a question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u37	I think I should apologize to Minister Kamp first. I said in the first term that since 1988 no Minister of Defence has been employed, but Minister Kamp has entrusted me with the fact that this is not at all true. He just stood up in Ermelo for his number for the officer training program. He did drop out after two weeks with an inflamed knee, but what I said wasn't true. I hope this will be added to his resume on Wikipedia. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u38	Mr. Van Haga, compared to you, I'm a pencil licker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u39	Okay, those are your words. They were my words, too, by the way. Then the 2% standard. We're constantly talking about how much we need to add. Promises are made every time. We're talking about 4 billion or 5 billion. It's gonna be okay in the formation. I referred to the Minister's word "absorbability." It's used all the time. "If we get money, we don't have that absorption capability at all." But that does not apply at all to a wage increase, to late maintenance on equipment and to late maintenance on real estate. There's just money in there. That can be spent immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u40	That's not entirely true. Instead of putting 4 billion into an organization at once, I think it is very reasonable to build it in a four-year period. We'll see if that happens and how that happens. May I give you an example? We are way behind in terms of ammunition. Mrs van der Plas said that "pink, peanut" was sometimes said. Mr Boswijk has already said in another context that he should occasionally say "pang, pang." So we're just running out of ammo. Small ammo can be ordered quite easily and then used. If you need larger, heavier ammo, you will have a waiting period of two years before it is delivered. Then the real estate. We have a lot of real estate. This is scattered and it is in very bad condition. All this needs to be looked at. You need to see what needs to be disposed of, what can be renewed and where new construction and concentration must take place. I think you might be talking about an investment of 5 billion or 6 billion over a period of twenty years. You can't just spend that money all at once. You need to ensure that this can be spent responsibly in a given time span that should be as short as possible. To begin with, you need to look at what we have as the Defense Department, what can be disposed of and what might contribute to the landmark and nature development ambition we have. If we look at how what is left is divided, shouldn't we move a little more towards the Randstad? That kind of thing needs to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u41	But the fact remains the same: we do not reach the 2% standard. I understand very well that there is a delay, because there are certain lead times on certain orders. You have to wait a long time for big orders, of course. At least that is not the case with a possible wage increase for the military. I think that raise is widely supported by everyone. It can be introduced immediately. But if you have the commitment of the money that was so far never there is at least a plan to be made. It hasn't started yet. However, I would urge you to make that money available in the formation so that, depending on how long it takes, you can make a plan and you can just sort it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u42	I agree with what Mr Van Haga is calling for, namely to make the money available, so that plans can be made to spend that money as soon as possible, in particular to start with staff remuneration. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the increase in defence expenditure with the economy. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u43	Excuse me. I do not want Mr Jansen. He was also ready for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u44	I had a question that actually ties in with this. In any case, I appreciate the sentiment I heard in the Minister's words and the willingness to actually settle that money in the formation. But what if that money comes and the minister gets his 4 billion, which would be very nice, how much per cent increase can soldiers expect? How much is that going to be concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u45	We compare the wages of the military with those of similar functions. This is not easy, because soldiers play a special role in society. Special allowances also apply: if you have been sent out or if you have to travel back and forth. There are therefore a number of special allowances. But apart from that: the basic wage. If you look at the whole thing, I think that's not wrong for major and above, compared to the market, but that underneath, up to and including captain, there's a deficit in relation to the market. We need to catch up on that delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u46	So that would be filled out differently by grade. So it's not a general increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u47	You've got to do it in a targeted manner. You shouldn't go where it's not necessary, take money and bring it to places where it's necessary, too little. We're gonna find out very precisely. We are creating a new wage building, in which it has been justified and developed in a responsible manner. That will certainly be shared with the Chamber, so that Mr Jansen can check it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden spoke about giving up defence expenditure with the economy. I think that is best done, and I think that is what he means by using the NATO standard, the agreement we have made, as a guideline. I think that's how we should do it. But for a good defense organization, as I would very much like it to be, we need suitable personnel who will probably be employed by us. We also need equipment. It must be invested in the long term. The equipment we have sometimes last 20, 30 years, but I also know examples that it lasts almost 50 years. We must all make long-term commitments. For the Defense Department, it's important not to swing, but the economy can swing. It is most responsible to have long-term security, but as a guideline we can use the agreement we made in NATO. I think that is also the intention of Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked for a ranking of the GDP rates of NATO countries to be included in the budget every year. We did, but apparently that wasn't enough. We would like to discuss again with him and the Chamber exactly how this should be done and how it could be done better. On page 11 of the draft budget, Figure 3 shows the development of the European NATO average. On page 12 in Figure 4, the development of the gross domestic product percentage and the ranking of the European NATO counterparts is shown. We thought it was so good, but if we can do better, we'd be happy to. Mrs Piri, Mr Ceder and Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about the growing importance of the cyber domain in relation to the extra money that I believe Defence needs. I think that's quite right. I have already said that I have been working on this every day for the past six or seven weeks. There is the very special situation that we in the Netherlands are complying with laws. We adhere to privacy provisions and monitor the intelligence and security services. Those are all kinds of limitations. On the other hand, there are countries where privacy does not play any role, where ethics does not play a role and where a supervisor is not involved, and who only attack us to push things further. I'm really worried about the difference between those attacks and the defense. That's not right. We really need to get the leg back on track to get this right. I wonder if it is not necessary, as we have deterrents in our nuclear capabilities and in our regular defence capabilities, to create something of deterrent in that cyber domain. We should not just wait and see what comes to us and try to defend ourselves as best we can. We must also be able to attack if we wish, in such a way that others see it as a threat. This will also make it easier for us to keep them away from us than is the case at the moment. So I think that defence should invest, not only in the current but also in the future threats, and that is absolutely part of the investment in cyber and space. We're not doing nothing about it. STIVD is a growing organisation, as the number of employees grows by 10% every year. I think it's an organization that's doing very well. However, this organisation has great limitations and I would like that to be looked at critically. Furthermore, we have Defense Cyber Command. I understand that Mr Van Wijngaarden and others have been there. I think that these are very important organisations for us in the cyber field in the years to come to do what is also in the interest of the 17,5 million Dutch people in this area. 41.000 Dutch soldiers are working every day for this. Mrs Piri and Mr Boswijk also asked about the results of investments in recent years. I just said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u48	Excuse me, Minister. Mr Boswijk has a question on the previous point. Go ahead, Mr. Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u49	I'd like to touch on the point the minister made about cyber. I think he's right to say it's a huge challenge for the future. I reached signals that people are very keen to train in that cyber domain. Training is easier when it comes to shooting exercises, because we just have a physical environment where we can. But there is also a great need for a virtual environment in which you can practice hacks and simulate things, without getting into the normal world and dealing with the GDPR. Is there anything built where you can simulate that to train cyber-reservists and cyber-military?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u50	I will look into this in the light of Mr Boswijk's comment and I will be returning to the Chamber in some time. Right now, the STIVD and the Defense Cyber Commando, because they have attached good people to them, are very capable of doing those things that will allow us to do more about our cyber defense than is possible at the moment. I've already indicated what the restrictions are. In my view, it is very important that we ensure effective supervision of the security services, the STVD and AIVD, but we should also allow them to do what is important for the Dutch people within that effective supervision, namely to ensure that there is a real defence against such attacks. But I would like to take up Mr Boswijk's point. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u51	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u52	Mr Boswijk and Mrs Piri asked about the results of the investments in recent years. I've already said something about that. With the money we have to spend, 100 projects have been launched, mainly projects aimed at improving that material readiness. I have already said that this has been important. It's been a good first step. We have managed to achieve, among other things, that the investment quota, which is very important for a military force, is currently in the Netherlands above 24%. This is very important for a military force, because it allows you to invest enough in new equipment and in possibilities to use that equipment. That percentage is very good, because the NATO directive is 20%. So we are doing just fine in that area. Mr Van Dijk asked what would happen if Defense didn't get that 4 billion. He has also raised this in an interruption and I have already replied to it. Mr Van Haga asked if I would be willing to embrace the Defence Vision. That is the vision of the present cabinet and therefore my vision. As Mr Van Haga himself pointed out, it shows transparently what you need as a defence organisation in a changing world in the longer term, namely until 2035. If you do everything that's in there and do everything that's needed in the long run, you'll need an extra 13 to 17 billion a year. It is fully substantiated that that is the reality. If we get an increase in the defence budget of 4 or 5 billion in the next cabinet period, I think that we will take important steps in the right direction and also achieve a very important improvement in both human and material readiness and perseverance. Then the priorities and profile of the organization. Let me first say something about what I believe should be the priorities in the next cabinet period. I'll give you three. First of all, our people and the organization. I have already said that people deserve a good reward and a modern staff policy, good housing, good and available equipment, practicability, good support. That's what we've got to do. That's my first priority. The second priority is the readiness, except for the people also the material readiness. The ammunition we need, the spare parts, the other supplies, and then not just to practice and do something in the short term. We have to defend the territory. This may take weeks or months or longer in circumstances. Then we must also have the supplies that are needed for this. That's what we need to invest in. That's gotta be for each other, too. It's part of the job. It's not just good to be trained. If you have to use them, you must also have the means to do so. There must also be investment, I say immediately when it comes to material readiness, in IT and in connections. All these weapons systems that we have and which have to work with other countries must all be interconnected via IT, and that still requires a lot of investment. The third thing I have just talked about is the cyber battle force and what happens in space, how we can defend the interests we have in space like the Netherlands. Those are my three priorities. If I sum it up, we need well-educated people with excellent equipment, who need to be ready to be used when and where necessary, effectively and responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u53	Before you continue, Mrs Piri has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yeah, I have a question. In the documents we received from the Ministry, a memorandum to the budget, you can read on page 14 about the staff: "In order to improve the staff readiness, the Defence Department pushes its focus from the quantitative filling of posts to the qualitative realization and securing of the personnel readiness with sufficiently suitable and available people." I don't get it, but maybe the Minister can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u55	Yes. It's about priorities. Of course, we need more people. That's really important. I have already said that we currently have 3,600 vacancies that are not filled. I told you, there are 1,600 vacant places we don't have the money for. This is first and foremost necessary, a quantitative improvement. But just as much is needed what you focus on especially in the initial phase, where we don't have enough people. This concerns specific functions relating to technology, which are the support for broadcasting. Where we miss the most people with certain qualities, priority will have to be given to how we can implement them. We're very busy doing that, too. I am afraid to explain this to Mrs Piri, because she knows that better than I do: quantitatively, you look at the numbers and quality that you look at the specific qualities, and we want them in the places where we miss them the most. That's where we want them to be. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Fritsma asked about the relationship between the three main tasks. I think that I have already responded sufficiently to this in response to what has emerged in the event of interruptions. Mr Fritsma referred to Article 90 of the Constitution. This was about the international legal order, without mentioning the armed forces. But Mr Van Wijngaarden called in Article 97, and that is where the armed forces stand. That's what the armed forces are asked to do. I have also indicated that we want to continue to carry out all three main tasks. As long as government and parliament have not said that we can stop one thing or another, all this must happen. We have simply entered into these NATO commitments in the interests of our security, so we are keeping them up as well. Mr Van Dijk asked if the 2010 Reconnaissances should be updated with a current profile for the armed forces. He said it in just a few other words. The Defense Vision 2035 is that update. So that indicates the vision of the present cabinet, but I think that the next cabinet will hold on to it again. That's the update on those scoutings. That's the profile for the future. But we have to work it out by cabinet period. This will be done with the Defence Note, which can be drawn up after the cabinet formation. I come to the stakes of our people. Ms Belhaj asked for a response to a request for clear frameworks on the responsibility of the Dutch State vis-à-vis local staff in future missions. She did the same because of what we experienced in Afghanistan. I believe that general frameworks are difficult to identify and of limited value, because conditions vary widely. Mrs Belhaj, of course, wants us to take responsibility for local staff in all circumstances. I also think that is absolutely necessary. We have also learned this from the situation in Afghanistan. We need to improve our staff administration of local staff working for us. That's what we're gonna do. I think we'll share that with the Chamber, too. Mrs Belhaj will then be able to see, among other things, whether she sees this as a framework which, in all circumstances, gives her the confidence that this will receive the attention it needs. Then about Afghanistan. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u56	Before you continue, Mrs Van der Plas has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u57	Actually, I'd like to go back to staff for a little while. It went a little too fast for me that we're already at the next block, the b-word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u58	I never use the word "block."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u59	That's a word the Minister doesn't like to use either. Prefer using words as a theme or subject. Give the animal a name, but not a "block."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u60	I don't like "block" and I don't like "coughing up," by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u61	Very good. I'm gonna be a bigger and bigger fan of yours. Let's get back to the staff. I had another question about the selection criteria. What if you're actually just not good enough, I mentioned the beep test as an example, but can be made well enough? The selection criteria could perhaps be taken a little more broadly. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u62	This is a debate involving communication. That means I'm allowed to transmit, but I have to receive as well. I've just told Mr. Boswijk that he has a subject that I need to look into a little more closely. I will also look into what Mrs Van der Plas is asking here, and I will share conclusions with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u63	Thank you. I am also curious about something I did not mention in my speech. But now that we are talking about this, I would like to ask how the Minister actually sees the future of defence. Look, back in the day... Back in the day? Grandma's telling me. In the past, of course, the fathers were still in service. I think there is now another generation where the father has been enlisted and in the army. But of course there's a new generation coming where the kids don't get to hear from father how much fun it was in military service. And we also have a generation that is being raised very wok.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u64	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u65	Yeah, sorry. There are gender-neutral army dolls and children no longer get toy soldiers or a toy tank. So they're not raised with that anymore either. It may be a strange question, but how does the Minister see the rise in the army in the future, apart from all the technical things we want to introduce? How do we really get young people back to the army? How can we make them just love it again to... yes, to become a soldier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u66	I'm optimistic about that. How are young people looking at the Defence Organization? 60% are considering going to see if there's anything for them at the DOD. And 40% is really going to try to do something with the DOD. So there's really a lot of interest among young people for the Defence Organization, for the military. Furthermore, we in the armed forces are actually using only half of the labour supply. We have 11% women and 89% men. And yes, I can't do that anymore. It is not good, but it is not wise; I will come back to that later. I think there is also much to gain if we use this whole workforce, that whole labour supply better. I think the work at the Department of Defense is very interesting. There are also nasty things, for example that you don't have the good stuff, that the reward is not good in part, that there are not always activities to do that you find interesting at that time. But I think that Defence is quite capable of improving that and that people's interest in working for the Defence Organization, for the military, will only increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u68	Afghanistan. Mrs Belhaj spoke about this. I shall do so as briefly as possible because, of course, the Chamber has already talked a lot about Afghanistan. I myself have had the opportunity to have a debate with the Chamber on this, together with my colleague from the Foreign Office. Evaluations are being made. They are also discussed with the Chamber. So I'll be brief about it. It is true that we feel very obliged to get those who are in the picture and about whom we have communicated with the Chamber from Afghanistan to the Netherlands. The Foreign and Defence Ministers are constantly working to find out what the possibilities are and to make use of them. For the defence sector in particular, there is no end date for the interpretation system, so that we can continue to do what is necessary. It's very difficult because of the new situation in Afghanistan. It is very difficult, because it is very difficult, and often not, to issue exit papers. So we have to do it in a different way, but what I said: we are constantly working on it and we feel obliged to do so. Mr Van Dijk asked about the effects of the broadcasts. I've already gone into that. I'd insult him if I started repeating that. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the state of play regarding the Afghan evacuations. The Chamber planned a committee debate on this subject on 25 November. I think it is a good thing that I inform the Chamber in advance of the current state of affairs, so that Mr Van Dijk and the other members of the Chamber can work on this. Then Mr. Van Dijk asked about the battle for Chora. He asked questions about that. Those questions need to be answered. I want to do that by the end of this month. In recent times, I have given priority to the crisis situation in Afghanistan and then to myself and to making sure that everything around the budget is in order. Meanwhile, I've been working on the cyber situation. But these questions will be answered by the end of this month. Then Mr Van Dijk asked about Hawija. I think it's necessary to talk to the Chamber about that. The Chamber knows very well how things went in Hawija. There was information that there was a bomb factory on an industrial site in Hawija. It was intended to take out that bomb factory, but then it turned out that there were much larger and much more explosions than expected, due to the bombs released at the bomb factory. Turns out that bomb factory of terrorists stored large amounts of explosive material that they were trying to kill people with. That all exploded there, so the damage to Hawija was very considerable. At least it was of a very different order of magnitude than we expected when we decided to take out an ISIS bomb factory on an industrial site. We feel obliged to do so, and I think we are, too, to help rebuild that community. We've done that in two ways. We have made available to the IOM the organisation is known to the Dutch MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................ I said "euro," but I meant "dollar." We have made available to the UNDP a sum of USD 1.8 million. The first project of the IOM started in May this year. This runs until October 2022. The second project, that of the UNDP, started shortly after July this year. That will run until August 2022. I will keep the Chamber informed of the progress of both projects in accordance with the arrangements made with the Chamber. Mr Boswijk asked how we could make the work of Defence in the Netherlands even more visible. I think that is, in part, good and also better possible, but in part it is not. You know, I say through you, Madam President, to Mr Boswijk, we always have 3,000 soldiers standing by on 24-hour notice. If civil authorities in the Netherlands call on the armed forces, we can do so within 24 hours with a maximum of 3,000 people. It is something that is not visible, but which is of the utmost importance. What is also less visible is all that is done by the Royal Marechaussee in the field of surveillance and security. Special parts of the Army and the Navy are also involved. We're also working on building security. That happens more often. The Explosives Cleanup Service is of course also on the agenda. We are there if there is a fire to fight or if there are special interventions where the police need the support of the armed forces. There are all kinds of things we do in the Netherlands. I think Mr. Boswijk's incentive should be used to these things... That is what the Dutch people get back for the tax money they spend in the Defense Department. Then it is a matter of good and smart performance for your public relations to make it accessible and visible in a good way. I see that as a justified encouragement from Mr Boswijk. Mr Van Haga asked whether we could offer military ice beds in connection with the situation surrounding corona. We can't. We have no ic capacity in our military hospitals. But we can make general military doctors and general military nurses and medical staff available to those hospitals where the need is greatest. We have, and we are always willing to continue to do so. I could have just mentioned that, Mrs van der Plas, when I was talking about the 3,000 soldiers who are always available within 24 hours to support the civilian authorities, and I spoke about the farmers and their tractors who can do good things if it is completely wrong in the Netherlands because of natural disasters. I think it's very nice that they do, but the DOD has people and resources for that and is also very willing to use them at all times. Mr. Chairman. I think it might be good to say something about the reservists as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u69	But I have the impression that Mr Boswijk has a question on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u70	By the way, it does touch the role of the reservists a little bit. It was just about the visibility of Defense in society. I was not referring so much to the visibility or invisibility of the Marechaussee or anything else, I was referring more to the role that Defence has in, for example, re-education, just as flatly, of troubled young people, which is now happening on a smaller scale. The results are quite successful and there is a great need for them. It is also said in the Defence Department that we want to play a bigger role there and perhaps we can get those young people into the Defence Department after a certain period. Is the Minister prepared to extend this method further, because there is so much need for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u71	I'm very reluctant about that. Mr. Boswijk also said: See if you can pair veterans with young people who need attention. Not every veteran is by definition suitable for that, Mr. Boswijk understands. I think there is a lot to be done for young people in the Netherlands, but that is not primarily for the defence sector. This is a task for the ministry of VWS and the municipalities. We have no surplus of people; we have a shortage of people. We have heavy tasks to carry out and I think we should concentrate on them. Where initiatives have been taken so far: I am not the one who will stop them, but I am not the one who will expand them either. Should Mr Boswijk still consider it important to try to get a little further there with a ruler, he could also wait until this ruler has been replaced again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u72	That's an honest answer. Then we're gonna wait for that and then we're gonna come up with something beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u74	Then the reservists. Over the past four years, in the past cabinet period, we have done a lot with regard to the reserves, because they are of great importance to the Defence Organisation. I have already spoken about our 41,000 soldiers, but I also like to talk about the 6,500 reserves. This figure has grown by 25% in the past cabinet period. The number of hours reserved for Defense has increased to a similar extent, to be precise, by 23%. They currently have a wager level of 2.2 million hours per year. The reservists are therefore simply a very important factor for the armed forces. Mr Fritsma asked what Defense is doing against terrorism. I think he knows that. I have just said that we have done work as part of an international coalition in Afghanistan, aimed at Al-Qaeda. We've done work in Iraq, focusing on ISIS. And we'll do it in Mali. We do not do that directly, but we do contribute to the UN mission, which is aimed at stability and therefore does exactly the opposite of what terrorists are trying to achieve. In this way, we are active on this front. Then it's about specialization. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bromet raised this issue. There are two types of specialization. The first is that you agree with other countries who will offer which speciality and what support and who will not do so anymore. That's one. The second form of specialisation is on deployment scenarios. One could agree within NATO, for example, that Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, the Baltic States, Norway and Sweden are cooperating in the defence of the North-West European region. That's also a form of specialization. I think the purpose of specialisation is quadruple. Firstly, efficiency: the use of the money available as efficiently as possible, of the people who are there, and of the material that is there. Secondly, effectiveness: achieving the greatest possible goal. Thirdly, that is achieving a higher quality than you have without specialization; that is the intention. And finally, that's more perseverance. It is also of the utmost importance that you are able to maintain that which needs to be done, even if it is necessary. That's a long journey. That's where we need to grow. I see the importance of specialisation, namely to improve our protection in NATO as a Europe. For the time being, there are still a lot of major deficits in Europe, which can be looked at in the light of specialization. In Europe, for example, we have shortages of ammunition and strategic stocks. We don't have the supply and strategic air transport in order. We do not have the communication, information and intelligence facilities at the required level. Systems are insufficiently linked. We don't have enough long-range missiles and anti-missile missiles. We don't have enough reconnaissance planes. The radar supply needs to be improved. Space activities are insufficient. And I've said all I need to say about cyber. Those are all things that are part of the dependence of the United States of America. If something is to happen, Europe cannot do so without the United States making it possible in NATO. In the long term, specialization is one of the ways to do something about it. I would like to say to the Chamber that it must realise that there is another thing to this, namely the autonomy of a country. The Netherlands is increasingly cooperating with other countries. We are already doing this, for example with Germany. We are in the process of getting our army to work closely with Germany. This applies both to our Air Mobile Brigade and to the Mechanized Brigade as well as to the Medium Brigade of the Army. We are also working intensively with Belgium in relation to the Navy. And we work with groups of countries in the area of strategic air transport. This means that first of all I am thinking of cooperation with Germany, which means that it will no longer be possible to decide on commitment entirely autonomously. If you want to deploy the army, it is in cooperation with Germany. That is, I think, very positive, but it does have an effect on the autonomy of a country. It is good to work out the possible consequences of this and to exchange views with the Chamber on the way in which it is looked at. Specialization is fine. There's a lot to achieve. Collaboration is fine. There too, there is much to be achieved. But we also have to face the effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u75	It seems to me to be a useful discussion. It's a good thing we're gonna feed it sometime. The Minister mentions two ways of autonomy, namely autonomy to decide on the commitment if you work together and autonomy of a country. That's two different things. In the case of a country's autonomy, I also think of the possibilities of defending its own country. Is that what the Minister means by those two kinds of autonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u76	No, I did not put it correctly, as Mrs Bromet did not understand what I meant. I'm gonna try to put it better. About the stakes. Suppose at some point we decide that part of our army soldiers should participate in an operation in country X. If you've intertwined the army with Germany, you can't just pull something out of it. You have to decide that together with Germany. This means that such a decision must also be taken with Germany. We're not used to that and we're new to it. So we should share that with the Chamber and talk to her about it. Let us now turn to our own country. We are already unable to defend our own country. This must be done in cooperation with NATO. I will say something about cooperation within the European Union right after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u77	I was hoping the Minister would give that last answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u78	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Union. The European Union is ambitious and is working on the Strategic Compass. I understood that Mrs Belhaj was somewhat critical of this and that she felt that the Netherlands had not played such a positive role in the defence cooperation that is being developed by the European Union. We are one of the pioneers of the Strategic Compass. We think it is very good that this Strategic Compass looks at what is possible in the long term in terms of specialisation and under what conditions it is possible. We have included many so-called non-papers in the discussion on the Strategic Compass, which means that the subject of specialisation has been brought by us into that discussion, so we are actively working on it. I do not think that EU cooperation is yet crystallised. This is because the analysis of all EU countries is not the same. The countries of Eastern Europe are much less interested in EU cooperation, because they think they should have it mainly from the United States of America. In the south of Europe there is a different view of this than in the north-west of Europe. This analysis is not exactly the same in the European Union, to start with. Furthermore, the situation is also quite complicated by Britain's exit. England was a major military factor in the European Union, but it is gone. If we are to work better together in the European Union, we must ensure that this is also a strengthening of NATO. And we need to make sure that it is not double-crossed, that we do things, and that we do things both to the European Union and to NATO, which should logically be done together. All this needs to be further developed, and this needs to become even more crystallised. At the moment, the European Union is at a low level in terms of actual military cooperation. There's one headquarters where 40 people work. That's not much, take it from me. There are two so-called battle groups, Battlegroups, which contain about 3,000 people, but which have never been deployed. Under the leadership of Borrell, the European Union is in the process of turning this into rapid deployment forces, which would involve about 5,000 people. It's all steps in the right direction, but I don't feel like it's already crystallized. I wanted to share that with Mrs Belhaj among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u79	I'm very happy about this. The Minister immediately shared it with everyone. I did indeed mention this in my speech as if it were at a decent ball where France and Germany moved to the room, while the Netherlands stared at the tips of his shoes in a corner somewhere. In my opinion, the Minister states here that I may have thought so all the time, but that the Netherlands in a room next to it is just partying hard and doing all kinds of positive things. In fact, I am very reassured that the Netherlands has a very active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u80	Yes. I will continue to do so on Monday when I go to Brussels to talk about this, together with the Foreign Minister. Mr. Chairman. We've had all the necessary exchanges on staff. Important improvements are needed, as I have already said, but a lot has already been done. We call that the square meters per military as far as alloy is concerned. Mr. Jansen said some very critical things about that. During the past cabinet period, a billion euros have been released to improve the barracks and the alloy. Wi-Fi is available everywhere; everyone has a mobile phone. We've done a lot of equipment for the individual military. The security of the military has improved. We have set up a management board and an inspection. In all areas where attention should be paid, they are working on this. Those are very necessary things. If you, as a large organization, think that something needs attention, you should organize it as well. That's what we did with the board and the inspection. Working conditions and allowances have improved. Training claims have been awarded and improvements in pensions have been made. There has been a 6.3% increase in salary and a full end-of-year allowance has been achieved. I believe that the figure of 2% per year has been increased to almost 9% per year, which means that a full monthly amount can be paid at the end of the year. All the things that have been done have led to a 12% increase in salaries across the board and a structural investment of 150 million in training, pension systems and allowances in particular. But we're definitely not with that. I have already indicated this; I will not repeat that. What is needed is a new "wage building"; that is a good word for a better reward. What is also necessary is a modern staff policy. As I said, it must be aimed at giving people the individual attention they want and the right to develop. This is important for the organisation as a whole. Of course, this new staff model is not falling out of the sky. Mr. Stoffer and Mr. Boswijk asked about that. That is something that is introduced in steps. It is expected that we will be able to achieve this by 2025. So that's in the next cabinet period. It's a little easier to realize the payroll building. That's what we've been talking about. Mr Boswijk said that Defence wants to be a good employer, but that the staff are still out of a collective agreement. I think we should say a little more about this collective agreement. Like the police and the government officials of the cabinet, we are given what the wage room for a new year is. It has to be filled in. That's what we do with the unions. Together with the unions, we've been looking at what we can do with the wage space available to the Defense Department this year. It is agreed that a part is done structuralally in total 1.4% structurally and that a part is done once only. This amounts to €1,000, which will be paid this year. All in all, this has meant that the improvements made for defence personnel are between 2% and 4%. That is what has been achieved in terms of improvements. For example, the 1.4% and the one-off €1,000 are compared to the collective agreement of the municipalities, and it is said that that is 3.9%. Well, then we're really comparing apples to pears. The municipalities have concluded a two-year collective agreement. For the year 2021, they did not give the first increase until 1 December. For the people in the municipalities, therefore, there has been hardly any improvement in the current year. There has been that improvement in the defense department. The municipalities have anticipated this, but for the next year and, I hope, the following year, they will also conclude a new collective agreement with the unions. We'll see how far we can get with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u81	I have a question about that. I understood that the whole 1.4% as of 1 January and therefore the one-off payment of €1,000 are still part of negotiations. Should it be the case that Defence and the trade unions fail to reach agreement, will that €1,000 still be paid? Or is that part of a package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u82	I find that a difficult question. I can't answer it like this. If Mr. Jansen is okay with that, I'll come back to that in the second instance. I do not think that we can do that. I am referring to the €1,000 and the question of whether or not they will be paid out if we do not reach an agreement at the end of the day. It is not obvious to do something unilaterally. Then it is more likely to reopen the negotiations and see what you can do with each other. I would regret that, because we are already in the middle of November and I think it is really necessary to provide clarity for the current year. With the unions we have looked at exactly what space there is and how we can fill it out as best we can. So we've looked at the optimal, maximum fill-in of the space that there is. We have agreed on this with the unions on their own. The unions will submit this to their members, and we will hear how that will eventually be considered. I think it would be good if that were accepted, and that we could implement it for this year, which will be 1% from 1 January last and 0.4% from 1 January next and €1,000 from the month of December. I think it would be good if we finally agreed on this and then turned to the new collective agreement for 2022 and 2023. If I have said something wrong about that €1,000, I will come back to Mr Jansen in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u83	As far as I know, the unions have rejected the proposal, but they are now presenting it to their members. It was suggested here as if that would be different. The minister was just talking about that pay house again. How much money is it gonna take to get that pay house decent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u84	I wanted to say that, together with the unions, we have explored how we can best fill in the available space. We have explored this together with the unions, and we have established this together with the unions. The unions have not agreed to this, but they have submitted it to their members, and they will let us know what their position is in the end. I have tried to put it this way; I believe that is the same as what Mrs Piri says. As for the money that is needed, it depends on how you look at it. Mr Van Haga said: if we give everyone 10% extra, how much does it cost? Well, then we're talking about about about half a billion euros a year that should be added. The new wage building as I see it, with a very specific look at certain groups that are lagging behind and how that can be corrected... I don't know exactly what we're going to come up with, but I think that could be in that order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u85	Thanks for the answer. So it's about 500 million euros. Those are also the amounts I hear behind the scenes. Is it true, then, that through the President, I ask the Minister, that your commitment is that if the coalition comes up with an X amount in the near future, that EUR 500 million should be available for that new wage building, or are you going to take percentages depending on whether it is 4 billion, 1 billion or 2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u86	I don't have a plan B. My plan is to ensure and manage that we are no longer below the European average of NATO countries in the next cabinet period, and that we are close to that 2% of NATO in the next cabinet period. And if that is made possible, if that money becomes available, it will have to be deployed across a broad front, but the improvement of the wage building for our staff is a major priority for me. How exactly we are going to translate this into the next cabinet period will be worked out in the Defence Note, which will be drawn up immediately after the cabinet formation, and where the Chamber can see how that money will be distributed and at what rate it will be available to staff. Mrs Van der Plas asked me if I could justify morally that soldiers are under the minimum wage. And Mr Van Dijk proposed to bring the minimum wage to €14 per hour. The lowest amounts for military personnel are indeed below the minimum wage, but this has been compensated by the guarantee allowance. Moreover, the military receive other allowances which are not included in the basic salary, so in practice there is no situation that there is working below the minimum wage. That is not the case for anyone. But it's not a situation I'm saying can stay that way. I think there is a need for improvement. A minimum wage of €14 per hour comes from the collective agreement of the municipalities. I don't know what we're gonna come up with if we get extra money available and that's gonna be used for the payroll building. I don't know what's gonna be the end of it. I understand what Mr Van Dijk's idea is about this, but I would not like to anticipate it now. First we have that money, then we see how best to divide it. As I have already said, the current wage structure has an unbalanced distribution. I really think it's necessary to improve that. And I really think it is necessary to ensure that this improvement in the wage building is accompanied by a new HR policy, a new staff policy for the employees, especially the military staff of Defence. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Eppink. He inquired about the AOW-hole of former soldiers. He was talking about "striking cases." It's good to take a moment to think about what we're talking about. We are talking in particular about the military who retired between the 52nd and 58th. They assumed that they would receive an ABP pension at 65 years. They also assumed that they would receive AOW from that moment on. Later that AOW age was increased. This means that until the regular retirement age the military received their own benefit, the Benefits- orphaned military, the UGM. There was this Disability- orphaned military, but the AOW fell away because people thought, "I've been getting AOW since I was 65 years old." That was actually 66 years old. I'm assuming. So they missed one year of AOW. I say to Mr. Eppink, the defense has fully reimbursed for all the military involved. We've made an arrangement, the AOW-hole compensation scheme. That means that this AOW will be reimbursed with a specific benefit for all military personnel. I do not know if there have been any more poignant cases. I can't really think of that myself. But let's say it is. A separate committee has been set up for this. That can be recited to that committee. Then that committee will assess it. That will then end up with me. There's something special about that. This applies to the soldiers who retired early, between 52 and 58 years old. Although they do not receive an AOW from the age of 65, their ABP pension may take effect on that date. But there are a number of people in that group who say: but we prefer that our ABP pension should not go into our 65th, but that this benefit orphaned military workers will continue to go on until the new AOW age. And why do they want to do that? First of all, they can build up an additional pension in that year. Secondly, the ABP pension is higher if you allow it to start a year later. And third, the UGM, the benefit orphaned military, has been indexed and the ABP pension has not been for ten years. That is why the retired military say: we prefer it to go that way. But the intention is not to settle anything now other than what was originally assumed. Originally, the ABP pension was assumed to be at the age of 65. It's gonna stay that way. And it was assumed that they were getting AOW at the age of 65. That is what we are compensating for with the AOW-hole compensation scheme. So I think that we, as the Defence Department, have resolved this in a very neat way and that this has been done in all reasonable ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u87	The AOW-hole is a huge concern of countless former soldiers. We have received hundreds of e-mails about the implementation, as the Minister has just explained. A motion has been adopted by my predecessor, Mrs Karabulut, and Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party, to look very closely at these cases. There's a lot of pain in the people that fall under here, I'll tell the minister. I would therefore ask him to carry out this motion as well as possible. Maybe he can come back to that. But I'm asking him to really look at this with a lot of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u88	As far as the AOW hole is concerned, I don't think there can be any pain. If you compensate everyone for 100%, I don't understand where the pain is. I can imagine that they are reasoning: we would have thought that we would receive ABP pension for 65 years, but instead, if we were to go through that other benefit, the UGM, for a year, that would be even better. It may be even more beautiful, but that is not something they have taken into account and that they also had to take into account. If letters are written, they will receive individual attention. The committee set up to do so is responsible for this. I think that a very careful, good arrangement has been put in place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u89	We all get those hundreds of letters. I suppose they'll just end up in the Ministry, too. Then I wonder: why should we judge this individually? Has there been an estimate of the amount that is between what those soldiers want and what they're getting now? How much money is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u90	I don't make that assessment because I don't see the reasonableness of it. There were two problems: the AOW-hole and the problem of not letting the UGM benefit pass. From the AOW hole, I said it would be completely compensated. Not letting it go is something they knew from the beginning: at that moment my retirement begins. Then you can say, if I postpone the pension for a year, then I get a higher pension. You can also say: the UGM is indexed and the ABP pension is not. And you can say, in that year, UGM, I'm building up even more retirement. There's all kinds of things to think about, but there wasn't a chance of that in advance. That was not taken into account at the time. I don't think there's any reason to change that right now, so I'm not gonna make calculations and stuff. I think it's so good for each other. That committee was set up on the basis of a motion from the Chamber, and that committee will do its job. But I don't foresee any changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u91	This is about a group that thinks they're disadvantaged. They feel that they have not been given the opportunity to work even longer afterwards, for example. So they really fell a bit between shore and ship. So it seems to me to be only reasonable, given the fact that this motion has been adopted, to at least make that calculation. Then we know what we're talking about. When it comes to 10 billion, it becomes a different story than when it comes to 50 million. That motion has already been tabled, so it's just a matter of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u92	I've given the arguments why I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u93	I have two things. I just heard the Minister say that there is some sort of referendum among the staff on these wage negotiations. That is a bit more nuanced, because the unions have just negotiated for a very long time. Those unions finally dropped out because they didn't get a good offer. They've been loyal for a long time. During financial crises, they were on the zero line. In the end, the unions said we're just gonna stop negotiating. It has been said to Members: 'We do not want to accept this, but what do you think we should do? Will you then agree?" They put that question out among the members. I think that is something other than a referendum. It's kind of a cry from the unions that they really don't like to negotiate anymore. They ask the members: what do you want to do? And they say, "If you say yes, we may accept the wage offer." In fact, I would like to know from the Minister how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u94	Mrs van der Plas knows that I did not use the word "referendum." I have said that they have submitted it to Members. And what they have submitted to the members is the maximum possible interpretation of the remuneration for the year 2021. We have established this together with the trade unions and that has been submitted by the trade unions to the members. We will see how that will eventually be dealt with. With these unions, of course, much has been achieved over the years. We also want to achieve a lot with them in the coming years. I have indicated what improvements have been made over the past four years. We have now seen what we can do best when it comes to the improvement for this year. We as the Defence Department are very willing to talk to the trade unions again about 2022 and 2023 to see what is possible then, hopefully also in the light of additional money that will be available for the wage building. I also think it is necessary to make that money available. So I think there's a constructive relationship with the unions when it comes to this kind of thing. Defence will make a great effort to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u95	I think the union thinks otherwise. That's what I'm getting from the post on October 22nd. People have been loyal for so long. They're in a financial crisis on the zero line. There's been a lot of deletions. If, after so long of negotiations, they are suddenly confronted with a collective agreement for government officials who receive 2%, can the Minister imagine that the end for the unions is simply lost and that they may feel a little offended?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u96	The space available to the state officials in the police, the Empire and the Defense Department is equal. There are negotiations in the different sectors on exactly how to fill that out, on which dates structuralally or once. That's what we've been exploring with the unions. We have also set that maximum level together with the unions. I think we did that in a good way. I'm not satisfied with what's going to come out in the end, all in all, for the defense people. I believe that an improvement in the wage structure is needed. I think there should be a better staff policy. I also believe that efforts should be made to establish a good collective agreement for 2022 and 2023, including on the basis of the scope provided for in the new coalition agreement. That's what I'm trying to do. And more generally with regard to the unions, I think that the unions have a strong position in the defence sector, that they are involved in many matters, that they are constructive and that we have achieved a great deal together. I would like to maintain that and we will continue to do our best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u97	Then I had one other question. The minister was just talking about personnel policy. So what should this new staff policy look like? Is there anything the Minister can say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u98	I think it is particularly important that the automatics should be included in the new staff policy. If you now have an x number of years in a function, you go to another function. But it is quite conceivable that you are in a position and could actually be in a different function. You should go there, because you work much better there and can therefore earn more there. It is also quite conceivable that the opportunities for training can be better exploited. Because they are more individually targeted, people can grow harder individually than others. That can be honored by the Department of Defense. The main point of this new staff policy is that you do not equate everyone, but that you allow as many targeted people as possible to make the most of themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u100	Mr Eppink also spoke about the RVU levy. Mr Eppink says, as a defence officer, you have to pay 200 million fines a year. Why is that? Because it has been conceived, I think for good reason, that we in our country had to get rid of early retirement in general. Vulnerable schemes, people who stop before retirement age, should no longer be encouraged as a government. The government has said: we even have to fight that. We will. If such arrangements are made by an employer, a fine must be paid by that employer. For the DOD, that's not the issue at all anymore. That should not be the case either, because for very good reasons, the Defence people are retiring earlier with age dismissal. That was in the past so from 52 years and from 58 years old. At the moment, a link has been made to the retirement age and is deducted there for five years. This is because the military often have to do heavy physical work in dangerous circumstances and because soldiers are often away from home for a long time. To compensate for all this, there is traditionally functional age discharge. That's just a fact. This has nothing to do with new policies or with early retirement schemes. The DOD couldn't make any decisions about that either. All that was just legally laid down. So I think the fine we get is really wrong. That makes me as well as Mr Eppink apparently does. A committee has been set up by the end of 2020, the Committee on Research and Development on Early Entry Military. This has been done on the basis of a motion by Mr Van Wijngaarden's colleague, Mr Bosman. In June of this year, I presented that committee's report to the Chamber. It states that the special position of a military person justifies an age-related retirement scheme. That could be excluded from the fine system I just mentioned. I think that's clear. That also needs to be brought forward. So I am busy talking about this with the Social Affairs colleague, who is dealing with this arrangement, and with the Finance Member, where the money is being collected. I really think this has to be different. As a DOD, we'd rather not pay a fine to the IRS. We prefer to pay that money to the staff or other important goals we have and which have been discussed tonight. I have said things about quantity and quality in relation to questions that have been asked to me, including by Mrs Piri. I also addressed a question raised by Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u101	I have a question about the previous point. There's a bit of a cliff hanger created by the minister. He did a good job on his own. He said: I totally agree, I prefer not to pay a fine and I am talking about it with Finance and Social Affairs. I think it is to be commended that in the short time he has been here, the Minister has already looked into this and is working on it. I would like it very much if the Minister would be prepared here to lift a tip from the veil of how those talks are going to go or who is going to cross them, but I have such an idea that the Minister is not going to do so. I do have the question to the Minister how and when he will keep us informed about this, because that cliffhanger is very exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mr. Van Wijngaarden knows I've only been there for a short time. I sent a so-called blue letter to my colleagues, inviting them to a conversation. The interview is based on the report from that committee. In the conversation, I will stand up for the interests of the defence and say that it is not reasonable for us to have to pay that fine. I'll see how far I get and then the Chamber will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u104	Mrs van der Plas spoke about the reserves. I've gone into that. I said how many more reservists we have, 25%, how many more hours they make, namely 23%. The reservists make 2.2 million hours a year. Madam President, I would like to tell Mrs Van der Plas that the reserve budget has more than doubled since 2017. It first stood for 28 million in the Defence budget and in 2021 it stands for over 60 million in the Defence budget. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether the atypical part of the labour market, to which he attributed Defense Cyber Commando, should recruit, select and reward staff as a whole independent military unit itself. In the Defense Cyber Command, we are indeed dealing with a very specific group. It is, as a rule, civil servants who need to be recruited in a tight market. So you have to be able to put separate policies on that. That's what we're doing for those civilian employees. The same applies to the STUDY. This is different for the military, because soldiers always go from one job to another. The boss, the commander of the Defense Cyber Command, was still in charge of the Corps Command in Roosendaal a year ago. So these soldiers always go from one job to another. In the DOD, there's nothing else I can do. Defence has a lot of broadcasts and functions where you can have ideas about the heaviness and position on the labour market. If you're military, however, you're dealing with military arrangements. I can't make an exception for the DCC. Where there are reasonable opportunities in the sphere of promotions and the like, we also try to make the most of them. Furthermore, I have already said that we need to be flexible for civilian personnel. Then about diversity and inclusiveness. There are very different views in the Chamber. I have already indicated that a larger proportion of women in the armed forces is highly desirable, even for the simple reason that we cannot almost leave half the labour market out. We must have ambition for that, too. We'd like to wear those, too. We don't just want women in the organization for that reason. A mixed organisation, consisting not only of men and women, but also of people from minority groups, performs better than a one-sided organisation. So there are several reasons why we want to have more women in our organisation. We also want more members of minority groups to be included in our organisation of the armed forces in the slipstream. It's not gonna happen on its own. This has developed very slowly in recent years. As far as the number of women is concerned, there is an improvement of half a percent per year. Right now, we're in the armed forces at 11%. I really don't think that's enough. So we're gonna do two things. Firstly, we are going to set targets. Targets aren't just a thing for the DOD. These targets will be passed on to the commanders as something important for their functioning. Secondly, we would like to see that discussed within the armed forces. We want to encourage this by making it a part of the training. At the Department of Defense, people are constantly trained. All kinds of things are being discussed, but I think that this should also address the importance of diversity and inclusiveness for the organisation as a whole, but also for groups of soldiers. Everyone who is part of that group has an interest in that. It also fits into Dutch society. Defence must be a mirror of Dutch society. Defense can't afford to leave groups of people out of it. That is why we are trying to achieve important improvements in this area, with regard to diversity, inclusiveness and targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u105	I hear Mrs Belhaj of D66 shouting "chapeau." That already indicates the direction in which this minister is headed: in the D66 direction. Can the Minister really not imagine that many soldiers, many defence workers, have taken this story with surprise and anger? Military people are underpaid. It's been repeated over and over again and they're heavily understaffed. It really is a wrong signal by coming up with this 'diversity drama'. There's no way they're waiting for that. The minister says it's important to attract good people, but with this he's scaring away a lot of good people. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u106	I am very sorry that a Member of Parliament speaks of diversity here. I have explained why I think it is important, why I think it is appropriate in our society and how we are going to implement it. If Mr Fritsma sums it up as 'diversity drama', then we are a long way apart. We've already talked about military rewards. Military people have very interesting work to do. Military people have very important work to do. Military people experience everything in their careers in all kinds of places in the world. The important work they do must continue in the future, with good material and also with good payment. The military groups are composed in such a way that optimum results can be achieved. Women and members of minority groups are all part of this. This is very important for the future of the armed forces. The word "diversity drama" is totally out of place. It's misplaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u107	That's how a lot of military people experience it. You've been able to see and hear that lately. Those messages must have reached you, too. There's no need for this. I'm not the only one who says that. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau did some research on this matter not long ago and drew exactly the same conclusions. More than 80% of defence personnel do not want specific policies to attract women, to attract people with different ethnic backgrounds, or to attract more lhbti's. They just don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u108	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u109	A lot of soldiers have joined the Defense Department because they want to defend our freedoms and not to participate in some wok-and-woke wreath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u110	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u111	Don't bother them with this. My question is: does the Minister acknowledge that they do not want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u112	People didn't come to the DOD to keep women or members of minority groups away. That's not true. I understand that, if there are changes, some people are critical about that. I understand that, but that doesn't make it right. What we are going to do is to pay attention to this issue in the regular training courses, so that they talk about it. I also expect the leaders of military groups to talk about this. In this way they contribute to a climate within the armed forces and to motivation in the military, which makes them understand that this is a development that fits in with the new society. They must make a contribution to achieving this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u113	I have a similar question. I myself was very ambushed by the news that there would be a mandatory diversity course in Defense. I have spoken to a lot of soldiers who absolutely do not want to do this and who really do not want to do that. The implication of this whole idea is that Defense has some kind of deterrent effect on women and that they wouldn't want to work there because there's something about Defense that they don't want to. Also, the implication is that there would be no differences between men and women and that boys and girls want to become soldiers just as much. Usually that's just not the case. Usually it's just that guys like to be tough and want to shoot, and all that kind of stuff. There are girls who want to, but that is usually not the case. So there is also a reason why that reflection is not fiftyfifty. Aren't you afraid that if you want to create some kind of cultural change by giving these kinds of courses, you're going to scare away the people who do want to join the army?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u114	Society has changed completely. There are more girls than boys at Utrecht University, more women than men. Women's participation in the labour market is growing rapidly. You can see that in modern forms of society, double work is generally carried out and there is also a double responsibility for the household and the children. It's a very different society. You can see that women account for 11% of the armed forces, and over the years that has hardly changed. Defence does not reflect society and does not pay enough attention to half the labour market. I am responsible for that organisation right now and I think that something needs to be done about it. You and others talk about a mandatory course, but it's about getting a military education in an organization like Defense. Part of that training is all that matters to you and the Defense Department, and this is one of those subjects. It will therefore have to be informed. That's gonna have to be discussed. That will have to be considered. Then there will also have to be such an attitude of the group and of the individual that we can achieve what I think needs to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u115	I hear the Minister say: we have to do this, because this is part of modern times. What if it's not? What if there are just differences between people? That wouldn't be a big deal either, because there's nothing bad about the fact that one person wants to do one thing and the other. Primary schools are full of women. Care is full of women. The army is full of men. There are differences between people. That's not a bad thing. That's not something really nasty or anything. What I'm afraid of is this. There's already a huge outflow and there's already a demotivation going on. I wonder if it is true, but I also read in the newspaper that there would be a plan for introducing a female quota, both in the adoption policy and in the flow policy. Maybe the Minister can confirm if this plan exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u116	What's your question, Mr. Jansen? I'd like a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u117	So this is my first question. My second question is whether this does not contribute to a culture in which the people who are attracted to Defence are going to pour out extra. I would also like to ask whether the Minister himself has discussed this with the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u118	I have spoken with very, very much more soldiers in my life than I think Mr Jansen will ever be able to speak. So he doesn't have to worry about that. A female quota? I said that we are going to work with targets in the Defence Organisation and that they are important, also because of the assignments that the commanders receive. Whether or not women are fit for a military force? Go see what's happening in Israel! Look at America and look at a country like China. Of course, there are women who are interested and who can. I think it is an undervalue and an indefenable situation that we in the Defence Department are focusing on half of the potential labour supply. The fact that we only have 11% women in our armed forces is undesirable because of the labour market situation, but also because of the quality of the work that needs to be done. We are convinced, and scientific research shows this, that mixed groups are so dynamic that their performance is better than that of one-sided groups. Those are the reasons for doing what we are about to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u119	Mr. Jansen, this is your last interruption. You just put three questions into one interruption. If I were faint, I'd have said "ready." So it's your last!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u120	That's efficient, but okay: one last question. You say I'd be talking about fitness, but that's absolutely not what I want to insinuate. Of course, there are suitable women and there are also huge numbers of suitable women working at the Department of Defense. But it does touch on an important question, because if we start selecting criteria other than suitability, aren't you afraid that something will be lost? This certainly applies to the defence sector, an organisation where fitness is the absolute essential criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u121	No, we think we have opportunities for every man who's fit to work in the Defense Department and wants to. We have a lot of vacancies. There are also some vacant places that are not yet vacant, but that is only because of the money. So we have a lot of places for men who want to work at Defense, but we also have the ambition to get a lot more women into our organization. One is not at the expense of the other. Both have to be done. We need more people in terms of quantity and quality. We need men, we need women and we want to do the recruitment throughout the labour market on a quality basis. We no longer want to leave out half the labour market, as we actually do. This is not a good thing for the Defence Department, for the two reasons I have just mentioned: quality and extent of the potential in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u122	I am looking at Mr Eppink and Mrs Belhaj. First Mrs. Belhaj? I don't know which one of you was first. I would ask you to make an interruption that does not lead to a repetition of what has just been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u123	No, I'm definitely not going to repeat myself. I understand the Minister wants to broaden the army's recruitment base. That in itself is very good. I welcome that. I've met female soldiers in America. I'd rather not have it with them. They are very suitable and highly appreciated. My question yesterday was whether you will teach the critical race theory in the courses you will then give. That was my question and I am waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u124	Perhaps Mr Eppink could take the trouble to explain to me the principle he has just expressed in a few sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u125	It is sometimes referred to in Dutch as the critical racial doctrine, in which everything is actually seen by the prism of race. One is a victim, the other is a possible perpetrator or should feel guilty. Those cases. The U.S. military is looking forward to teaching that, watching this through the prism of race. And I said, "I'm warning you about that." I wouldn't do that because it polarizes and drives people apart, when in an army you want to broaden, you have to bring people together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u126	I do believe that we want to broaden the army, broaden the military force, bring people together, bring all people together, whether they are men or women, members of a minority group or not. That is our intention, including the attention we want to give to this subject in the training programmes. In this respect, I agree with Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u127	It will be a very short question, but it will also be an interruption in which I would like to make a comment on the comments made by Mr Jansen and Mr Fritsma. Of course, the Minister answered it properly, but I think it is important to stress that I absolutely believe that women, people belonging to minority groups, children of migrant workers, children of former refugees, should all be able to work with the Dutch armed forces. Above all, if they want to, they should be able to do their work there in a happy way, without having to feel that they are being watched at the door, because that is incredibly sinful. So I do not agree with the theorem that was just posted here by the gentlemen. And I would like to ask the Minister if he accepts my compliments for his leadership on inclusion and diversity. Period. Question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u128	Clear. Period. Question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u129	That is kind of Mrs Belhaj, but my leadership should not be overrated. I started here six or seven weeks ago, and I'll be gone in six weeks, and you'll all forget about me soon. What I am putting forward here is also something that the defence organization, the military organisation, is motivated by. But thank you, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u130	Please continue. Material, by any chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u131	I have a brief answer to Mrs van der Plas on the reactivation of military service. Mrs van der Plas knows that when you send people, they cannot be conscripts. So if we re-enter the service, we will have an organisation where we have a lot of people who are not allowed to be sent out, which is one of the important tasks, according to the Constitution, of the armed forces. That's problem one. The second problem is that, of course, it costs a lot of money to bring another 200,000 18-year-olds to the Defense Department for a year. The first year costs extra money, because things have to be built up again. I think we will lose EUR 15 billion in the first year if we do that. In addition, the Department of Defense has a lot of work to do. The armed forces have their hands full with it. If you get distracted because you also have to spend a large part of the budget on a group of people who need a lot of attention, but who ultimately cannot be used in carrying out one of your constitutional tasks, then that is also problematic. It's not like military service in every country, in all circumstances, is completely wrong. Mrs van der Plas probably also knows what they're doing in Israel. For two years everything is being skimmed, including, for example, the people at the universities. They're looking at who's really good in IT and cyber. Those people will be deployed and trained for two years. Their knowledge is being taken advantage of. They're getting new knowledge. They then go to business with this knowledge of the defence organisation. You're starting to interact. So in Israel, that works out well. In the Dutch circumstances, it is as I have just outlined; it is really not a passable road. Mr Van Dijk asked about phasing out the use of chromium-6. Mr Van Dijk knows what is going on. In the period 1970-2015 insufficient attention was paid to the risks of chromium-6. An arrangement has been made, Arrangement chromium-6 Defense, to compensate as much as possible for the consequences of what happened at the time. From 2015, however, there is a targeted policy to prevent exposure to chromium-6, for example on a Hercules aircraft that has recently been painted completely again. No chromium-6-containing paint has been used for that. All kinds of measures are also being taken. In a situation where there is still a need to work with paint or equipment in which chromium-6 is contained, everything is being done to prevent any adverse effects on the people working on it. I think we can do that, too. And I think we are also able to go one step further, namely to work dust-free in the Defence Organisation at all. So when you're doing maintenance work, you shouldn't suffer from unhealthy substances. This involves not only chromium-6 containing ingredients, but also other substances that may be unhealthy for you. So this is something that has received a lot of attention in recent years. I think that the work on products containing chromium-6 is being carried out in a safe manner within the Defense Department right now. Mr. Chairman. Then, as I wanted to, I come to equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u132	Before you do that, Mr Van Wijngaarden would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u133	I will come back to the Minister's answer to my question about the Defence Cyber Command. In the meantime, I've been looking at worksbijdefensie.nl. You can see the military parts standing there neatly: Army, Air Force, Navy, Marechaussee. But anyone interested in working at the Defense Cyber Command does not find a separate point on that site. And why is that? The Cyber Command just doesn't have an independent entrance. It is assumed that you always have to work with one of those other parts of the Defense Department first. At the same time, we get daily reports of cyber attacks here and we hear how important the cyber command is. That is why I am asking the Minister whether we are not engaged in an institutional discussion in this way, in which we keep the cyber command unnecessarily small and also unnecessarily cut off from the labour market. Shouldn't we be giving that cyber command a channel of our own?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u134	I think that this should be a third point which I should take on board and which I should look into further, in the spirit in which Mr Van Wijngaarden asks. I'd be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u135	If I understand correctly, it doesn't go into blocks, but the staff part is actually over. I would like to ask another question on this subject, which I believe is still open. It is a question that has not only been asked by me, but also by Mr Boswijk. There has been a request for the governance model in Defence, and in particular for the position of the CDS, which is only executive, and has no policy responsibilities. That's a specific question. In concrete terms, I would like to ask whether the Minister also thinks that such a position for the CDS is not really desirable and should be adapted. Let's just put it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u136	Mr Stoffer knows that the function of Commander of the Armed Forces was introduced to the Defence Department in my previous period. The CDS is the crucial man or woman in the Department of Defense. If there are broadcasts, a separate recommendation is made by the CDS. If the CDS says it can't be done, it can't be done. If he says he can, then we'll see if we can all do it right in the political sphere. Over the years, after I left the Department of Defense in 2007, important elements have been added to the tasks of the CDS, for example the Defence Material Organisation. 4,500 people work there. They were brought under the CDS. Also the DOSCO is the command that controls support, which includes all kinds of components that add up to 9,200 employees. The policy is made by military and civil officials in the Defense Department. That's another special subject. You do that a lot in cooperation with the State Department. It's about communicating with the Chamber all the time. There is a policy force in the CDS, but the main policy force is the Director-General, who is responsible for policy. I'm guessing that's a quarter to a third of the military. I think that is a very balanced whole. Defence is made up of civilian personnel and military personnel. The most important person in the armed forces is the Commander of the Armed Forces. It has a very wide range of responsibilities and tasks. There is also a Director General of Policy. I think it is a beautiful, balanced organisation in the present scheme, which I would not like to affect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u137	The answer is clear. I take it that, in a single interruption tonight, we are not going to think differently, I am not going to think differently from my perspective and not from the Minister's perspective, I think. That answer is clip-and-ready. Then let me leave here the following. Then I've done my second interruption. We're not getting out of that tonight. That is only the case, but I think that, as far as I am concerned, with the successor of this minister, I should like to see this minister become a minister who would like to have an exchange of views on this matter. In itself, I understand that the CDS is struggling and so on, given the whole task package that lies ahead. I get that you're having a divorce, too. But I often have the impression that military and military are sometimes a little subordinate to policy. I myself come from another department, also from the execution. Maybe I have some allergy to it. Of course, I get some signals from the DOD. With me there really is a kind of deep-seated desire that I like, even at policy level, really more military intervention... Yes, I have to be brief, Mr. Chairman. To make a long story short, I would like to return to the new minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u138	Thank you. Material.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u139	Material. I have already said that there has been a lot of investment in equipment in the Defense Department in the past cabinet period. I have already said that the investment ratio has risen above 24%. I've said that extra money has become available, including for training ammunition. As a result, a number of things that have gone completely wrong in recent times can now really be corrected. New large-scale equipment projects have been launched. They will also lead to improvements. I listed it at the beginning of my input. I think there will still be a lot of work to be done in the future in the field of equipment, also because replacement is a constant issue for the defence industry. In that light, it is also good that I go into the replacement of the four submarines of the Walrus class. It is a subject of particular interest to Members of Parliament. The four submarines of the Walrus class we have are important for the defence of the European and Caribbean territory of the Netherlands. It is also important for the NATO Convention Area. We are convinced that we have an important niche capacity within NATO, that much knowledge is in the Dutch Navy and that we would like to hold on to it. You can roughly distinguish three types of submarines. You have the big, mostly nuclear-powered submarines. You have the little ones that are meant for the coastal waters. If they are deployed elsewhere, then a home port must go all the way, so that they can function from there. They are therefore mainly intended to operate off the coasts of territories. And you have an intermediate class. Those are the conventional, expeditionary submarines. That also belongs to the Dutch Walrus class. That's a limited category. You don't have a lot of submarines like that in the world. Of the NATO countries at the moment, except the Netherlands, only Canada actually has them. Canada has four. Those are second-hand English submarines that are mainly used there for the large coastline that the Canadians have. Spain is in the process of building capacity. But the Netherlands already has that capacity. That, as I said, is an important niche capacity within NATO. The Netherlands also had a self-creating submarine capacity until the 1990s. The Walrus class is the result of that. It was designed by RDM and Defense together and built by RDM. The construction of the Walrus class was commissioned in 1979. The last of the four Walrus submarines was delivered in 1994: fifteen years later. So 15 years after the order was given, the last one was delivered. I'll get back to you on that. Besides, the yard was bankrupt two years later. Then you had another submarine builder, Wilton-Fijenoord. But it hasn't produced submarines since the 1980s. You also had the Scheldt, which has merged into the Damen group. The Scheldt made the last submarine 81 years ago. So there is no self-creating submarine capacity in the Netherlands anymore in industry. There isn't one in the DOD either. We don't have that design capacity anymore. This means that we are dependent on foreign yards for the replacement of the Walrus class, and there are not even so many that are eligible for it. We have selected three and with one of those three we are going to do business. As a small country, you do so much more. Our fighter planes are also from another country. The helicopters are also from another country and this is also on the agenda. This does not mean that the Netherlands does not have a very interesting defence industry. If you look at our surface ships: they are almost all awarded to a Dutch shipyard without competition. That is often a very large amount of money. I believe that, over the past 10 to 15 years, some 10 have been delivered, outside of competition. At the moment there are about three more in order and there are a few more. So as far as surface ships are concerned, we have expertise. We also have great expertise at Thales in Hengelo. In the field of radar technology, that's really top of the bill. That's absolutely true. But as far as submarine technology is concerned, that is simply not the case. The only project that has been done this century in the field of submarines in the Netherlands is the conservation of the four Walrus boats. A need was made in 2008 and the four boats would be up-to-date by 2020. In 2008 the need: we are now 13 years ahead and two of the four submarines have had that update. If you look at what happened at that update, it turns out that it is mainly placing components of systems that are purchased abroad. Dutch companies have not been able to deliver this. It was bought abroad and then brought to the naval yard in Den Helder by a Dutch company in the submarines. That's what this century has been doing in the field of submarines. The amount available is a fraction of the amount involved in the construction of four completely new submarines. So we have three yards in mind for this, which have been brought into competition with each other. With these three we are now going to talk to see what can be a feasible demand package that is tailored to the Dutch needs and what that yard can deliver. That's what we have dialogue rounds for. We've had one. The second round of dialogue will take place from December and this will have to come out. That set of requirements will then form the basis for a tender application, again with those three. After receiving and assessing these offers, a choice can be made for a yard with which we can conclude a contract with. Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Boswijk and Mr Ceder had asked about the current planning to carry out this whole process of acquiring four new submarines. I have to say that the time schedule, although it contained a number of reservations, was too ambitious for that whole process. I have already said that the last time submarines were produced, it took fifteen years, and that the update after twelve years was half done. They're just complex, long-term processes. The planning for this project was too ambitious. In my opinion, it needs to be adjusted. Before we can adjust that planning, we must first know the causes of the delay that has occurred so far and what its implications are. We also need to look at what capacity is available inside and outside of Defense, knowledge and personnel capacity, and how that capacity can be used to the best of our ability to make that process work. That first, that delay, I have to examine internally; we are very capable of doing so. That second, the screening of the entire acquisition program to see what is going on with the knowledge to make that process work, let's do it externally. I would also like to have an internal look at the possibilities of continuing with the Walrus boats that we now have, if the process is delayed. I would also like to see what the implications of the longer journey are, also financially. It will therefore be necessary, for example, to look at the length of life, the employability and the number of boats that will then be able to continue. But those are all things that need to be sorted out. That's what we're gonna find out. Once that is known, a new planning can be made, which can then be shared with the Chamber. A great deal of good work will therefore have to be done in order to be able to keep up with this planning. Questions have been asked about a possible adaptation of the chosen dialogue approach, including by Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mr. Ceder has argued to continue with one yard. And Mrs. Belhaj had asked about the C-phase in the trial. We have now moved throughout the process of the B phase, the information gathering, to the D phase, in which a choice will eventually have to be made. Mrs Belhaj wanted to know whether the C-phase, between the B-phase and D-phase, was rightly skipped. In response to the question of the VVD I would first like to indicate the following. Before we can assess what is going on with this dialogue approach and get on with it, we need to wait and see what we can do. We need to involve them in this. The purpose of the dialogue is to move forward in talks with the yards in order to reach a final set of requirements. You have to imagine: these three yards can all make a model submarine, a standard model, but that is not in line with what emerged from the B phase of the Netherlands. The standard model will need adjustments. What changes these are, in what form and what they are going to cost, are all things that need to be discussed with the yards during the dialogue phase. That's what's gonna happen. The first phase of dialogue has not produced the necessary depth. Moreover, I also think that the demands made by the Defence Department to the shipyards were too broad as to what had to be done in and on those boats. It is not only necessary for the yards to go deeper in terms of information, but also for the Defence Department to indicate more specifically what is required of the yards. This can be discussed with the yards in the second phase of the dialogue. I hope that at the end of the day we will be able to get what they can deliver at their best, at the best price. It is also about other things that I am going to deal with in this way. I hope that we will then be able to reach a decision on this basis and on the basis of an invitation to tender for all three. If it turns out that all this is not possible, so that we cannot move forward with any yard within the framework of the requirements package, then we need to take a step back. Then we'll have to go through that C phase again. But I don't think that's gonna come to that. We must be able to move forward in dialogue with these three yards and ultimately make a responsible choice after a tender has been submitted by all three yards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u140	I already thank the Minister for the partial answer on D66's concerns when it comes to, in ordinary human terms, "do you buy a submarine off the shelf or let it develop all over again?'. In the latter phase C is very important. It can be checked and checked to what extent the specifications for such a new design are in good balance with the estimated financial costs and the associated risks. The Minister states that it remains unnecessary to do the C phase: it is a submarine off the shelf, with some adjustments. The C phase is intended to allow the Chamber to take a good look at it if you are going to design a lot. I actually want to hear from the Minister that there really is no need for the C-phase to enter and that there is really tight steering on 'a submarine off the shelf is a submarine off the shelf'. If you don't want to design it, then that's fine, but you have to say it in front. This means a significantly higher budget that is needed to do so, plus that you need significantly more time to realize it. I think it is important to have that honesty now, instead of having a parliamentary survey on how things could have gone wrong in ten years' time. That is not to be cynical, but I would like to hear from the Minister that there is certainly no question of a kind of Volvo car being turned into a Ferrari car. A Volvo is nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u141	I believe that the transition from the B phase to the D phase, in which we have put three yards into competition, has changed with the Chamber. It's in progress. With my statement that we believe that this can lead to a good outcome, I think that we are also committed to continuing that process. The boats cannot be bought off the shelf at the French, Swedish and German yards. However, they do have models that are very useful for this purpose in order to produce a boat that is not completely clean, but with a number of adjustments. I think that the process we are going through now is the right process, that it is a promising process and that we should try to bring it to an end. On going back to the C-phase and redesigning, I indicated to Mrs Belhaj and the Chamber as a whole that in the Netherlands the capacity to design a submarine is no longer present. Last time it was co-designed by the Defense Department, along with the RDM, but it is no longer there. I therefore believe that what we are doing now is more likely than the project described by Mrs Belhaj as a possible alternative. I think we should try to ensure that what we have put in place leads to a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u142	That's a clear answer. In reply to previously asked questions, the Minister states that the audit questions from the review framework help to make a careful assessment, taking into account action options, costs and risks. Can the Minister explain again in ordinary human language what this implies?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u143	Let me try. I'm going to tell you how we're doing it now and then Mrs Belhaj can see if there's any uncertainty on this point. We intended this dialogue to gradually gain a better understanding of the feasibility of the demand package. Defense is looking for the right balance between the requirements associated with the best boat; the best price, ensuring national security and strategic autonomy, risk management and time. Those are the demands we are discussing with the shipyards. If the continuation of the dialogue would show that it is not feasible at all, then we should look again, as I said to Mrs Belhaj, but that is not what I expect or what we should be working towards. Mr Ceder said that it would be better to decide at this stage that one of these yards is to be commissioned, single source, and that there is further exclusive consultation. I don't think that would be good because of the price. It may not be good either because of the quality, because it is only at the end of this dialogue that the quality of the offers from various yards can be assessed. It doesn't make sense either in terms of time. It doesn't necessarily save time. Certain parts of that very long process just take time. Last time it lasted fifteen years, with twelve years for half of the update, as I just described. The needs need to be shaped into a feasible and affordable set of requirements, which we have just discussed. You have to make demands on essential security. You have to draw up supply and conservation contracts and a MoU with the country where the yard is located, because that must also be involved and commit to it. Then prepare and test the final design, guide the construction and trials when the boats have been completed. Those are all things that have to be done. I think there is little profit to be gained in time, if you choose one of the yards now, in violation of the procedure that we have initiated, regardless of whether it is legally possible at all. I don't think that's the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u144	We asked in writing whether there was any political pressure in this direction. I thought the answer was a little unclear. It said: not at the moment. I just wanted to make myself clear, also because this is a long journey. Can the Minister indicate whether there has been any political pressure from outside at other times? We have to make sure that we really guarantee the care of the journey. The answer in the written consultation gave some room. I hope to clear that up, which is why I am asking you to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u145	Instead of talking about political pressure, I'd talk about pressure. There's always a lot of pressure on this process. Other ministries in the Netherlands are involved: Economic Affairs and Climate, Finance. So there's a certain amount of pressure there too. At the Chamber I also experience a certain amount of pressure. The yards, with their lobbyists, are also doing their job. Countries where these yards are located also want to talk to the Dutch minister about what is going on there, probably again at the request of their parliaments and their industry. That kind of thing happens in such a whole process. However, it is also the responsibility of the Dutch Minister of Defence to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Boswijk, Mr Eppink, Mrs Belhaj, Mr Ceder and Mr Stoffer have asked questions about the Dutch involvement, in particular about the extent to which Dutch companies can be involved. This is closely related to the questions about building and maintaining submarines as much as possible independently or even entirely independently in the Netherlands. I have already indicated that that is not possible. Those submarines are gonna come from overseas. This also means that the conservation situation is different than it is today. We must therefore be realistic about the involvement of Dutch companies in the construction of the new submarines. They are built abroad and the installations, the critical systems, come all or for the vast majority of foreign suppliers. Participation of Dutch companies in the construction and maintenance of the new submarines can be achieved in two ways. Firstly, on the basis of the essential national safety interest, the government lays down requirements for the supply of submarines. Meeting these requirements means bonus points for the candidate yards. If a candidate yard is able to involve Dutch companies in the construction or can ensure that the Dutch Defence Organisation can direct the conservation of Dutch submarines, including the possibilities of involvement of Dutch companies, and that can offer, then all these are advantages for that yard. Secondly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is developing an industrial cooperation agreement in parallel with the three candidates. This involves direct involvement and indirect involvement of Dutch industry in maintenance and construction, but it may also be that Dutch industry is involved in other defence projects. In short, the candidate yards will be questioned about how they will involve Dutch companies. That was also the point raised by Mr Stoffer. Mr Boswijk spoke about the implementation of the Bruins Slot motion. Mrs. Bruins Slot is a predecessor of his and a female former officer in the armed forces that I have good memories of. In the B-letter we explained that the request made in the Bruins Slot motion was made in the design of the current D-phase. I have indicated how the essential national security interest and strategic autonomy on the one hand and industrial cooperation on the other hand can lead to the involvement of Dutch companies and knowledge institutions. The extent to which this leads to effective involvement becomes apparent during the procurement process, during the dialogue phase. This will then have to take shape in the construction and maintenance of the entire lifecycle. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to bring up about the submarines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u146	There are questions about this particular section. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u147	The Minister has explained very carefully, and that is also quite right to say how complex the whole selection process is, why it takes so long and why it lasted so long the last time. But at the same time something bothers me, because we also hear that part of the complexity is in the chosen process itself. And then you come to the question of how long you can keep talking with three parties at the same time. If you ask three submarine builders, so to speak, how deep it can be, then the chances are that all three of them will say: deep, but that is so secret that we are not going to share it with you at this stage. I am not saying that this has happened so precisely, but I am trying to outline the complexity of the process itself. I would therefore ask the Minister to reflect on that once again, because I actually heard him say it a little bit, so to speak of 'we have not been very specific about what we really want'. What lessons does the Minister see at the moment, so before the task force gets to work? What lessons can he possibly already see, I say for the process itself in order to make pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u148	I don't want to wrong those three foreign yards. It is true that this first phase of dialogue did not produce what we wanted, what we had hoped for. And I think that is partly up to the yards and partly to ourselves. So we will both have to do better, and for that the second phase of dialogue is the opportunity, and it will begin in December. It is, as Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly says, a very complex process, and it is also a different process than we used to be. We designed and built them in the Netherlands, and now they are designed and built abroad. What we can do from the Defence Department, with the support of Dutch knowledge institutions, Dutch companies and external experts, is to assess those offers that we get as best as possible. I think we're quite capable of that, but that's about it. And in this whole process we have to look at how we can involve this Dutch defence industry, which is very strong in terms of surface ships, which is very strong in terms of radar but which is not strong in this, as much as possible. And that needs to be discussed in dialogue with these yards. Look, if a yard doesn't want to talk to us, he's got to let us know; then it's okay. But I think all three of them are very hungry to talk to us. Well, then we want to discuss with them what we think is important: the national security interest; strategic interests; the involvement of Dutch business. That is what we are all going to say in the next phase of dialogue. And the intention of us, of Defense and of EZK, is to move to the Netherlands within the frameworks that exist, and those are the five great demands I have just mentioned, everything you can reasonably do, within those requirements. I believe that this is important both for construction and for conservation. That is why I have just said that an important point will be that the Dutch Defence Organisation can get the lead on the maintenance, and is therefore able to involve Dutch companies as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u149	That's good to hear. I only ask the cabinet that when it appears that there is a need for additional capacity to weigh and assess, for example, that large amount of information, no good weather is being played, and that it is simply said that those project teams that do so should be expanded. I would say: can I trust that this will be extended and that we will hear of it as soon as possible? For the importance of speed in ensuring that NATO's niche capacity can continue to be reliably filled, I have actually heard little so far in the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u150	Yeah, that's right. It is an interest of NATO to have this niche capacity permanently filled in by the Netherlands. In fact, we're the only ones who can do that right now. So it is important for NATO, and therefore for the alliance and therefore for the Netherlands, that this important task that the submarines have carried out over the last ten years should continue to be carried out over the next decades. Look, it's not like if Sweden decides tomorrow to produce expeditionary conventional submarines, they can do that. You have to build that skill all the way into your own organization. We already have this skill, that knowledge and that experience in the Netherlands, and it is in the interests of NATO that it should continue to use it. So that's what we're working on. As far as information to the Chamber is concerned, this is also a major project, and that means that it is very important that we provide the right information, as the Chamber wishes. And Mr. Van Wijngaarden gave a special provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u151	Mr Stoffer, and then Mrs Van der Plas. I'd like some short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u152	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman, but this one won't be easy. First of all, a compliment to the Minister. I have not seen it often that things are being put down so factually and clearly, especially on such a complicated dossier. It is also good that the Minister is doing some sales. He has also been Minister of EZK, of course, with Thales and also the Dutch industry. But from my point of view, I want to put down one thing, and that is that the minister is failing a company. And when you talk about those three yards, I get that we're there... Or at least the minister and the one who sat there before, but the minister is the minister, and also the secretary of state at the time; we didn't quite get out of that. But I just have here a quote from the CEO Vice President of Saab, who says: "As equal partners, we have found each other. When designing the replacement of the Walrus class, Saab takes the lead, in the production Damen is that." I have also mentioned them many times: do them not wrong. Damen has explicitly... They can't do it alone, but together, as far as I'm concerned, they have a very specific position. I think we should recognize that. That is not a question but a statement, but I would like to make it quite clear here. I have another question. The Minister answered the question about the Dutch maritime industry. But I would like to speak for them here, and I would like to have the Minister's reflection on that. Why am I pleading for this? Well, not because I just want to make sure this gets to Saab-Damen, because I'm not an advocate of Saab-Damen. If those other combinations can, as far as I'm concerned, that's okay. But it is essential for our Dutch maritime industry that our companies are deployed to the maximum. We still have a lot of knowledge in that regard and we can do a lot. If that doesn't happen now, it's gonna go down. And then I look at those young people, those young engineers, those young mathematicians...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u153	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u154	...and those young people on the MBOs. They have to have perspective. In my opinion, this very high-quality technological knowledge must be maintained in the Netherlands. That must therefore also be an absolute priority. I would very much like to hear from the Minister that he recognizes this as much as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u155	As for Saab-Damen, the combination. All this will have to be taken into account in the next phase of dialogue. What can they do? What do they want? I appreciate the company Damen. We've been doing a lot of business with that for a long time. That has already received billions of orders from the Dutch government. But I find that the shipyards from which Damen was formed have not built a submarine for 81 years. I also note that we asked them if they wanted to be involved in that update of the four current Walrus submarines. They weren't interested in that. So it may well be that they are interested in producing the submarine designed by Saab in the Netherlands, but I think there will be a lot to talk about in the dialogue phase and there will still be a lot to explain. Regarding the importance of the Dutch defence industry. We have a very strong defence industry in the Netherlands, especially with regard to surface ships and radar, but also with regard to a number of other activities. They're getting mixed up in it. I also very much intend to continue to help that Dutch defence industry from Defence, to maintain it, and not only to maintain it, but also to make the most of it as Defence. We must be realistic about the young engineers and the young technical mbo'ers and so on. I can assure you that there is a very good market for this in the Netherlands, if only to build those surface ships or to build radar. Those people are being pulled very hard, too. This kind of people is being attracted to a wide range of people throughout society. I therefore believe that the Dutch involvement in the submarine project, both in construction and maintenance, is an important issue. But we have to look at it realistically. That's what I've been trying to do in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u156	There is another question on this subject by Mrs van der Plas. That's her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u157	Yes, my question to the Minister is to respond to the following. We are in contact with a person who is close to us. I'm sorry to read it off my phone, but it took me too long to write it over, so I'm gonna do it this way. The person will let us know: "The capacity to build is there. We can build ships and submarines in the Netherlands. We're dealing with specific submarine designs. We can't do that entirely in the Netherlands, but there is also that knowledge. Capacity to design, engineer and run a complex military naval project is there in the Netherlands. Before that, we have a Navy building that can do it very well. With these new submarines, this Dutch sector can also be fully integrated, both in designing, involving competent Dutch suppliers, project management, maintenance and modernisation, autonomously and nationally: triple profit." Finally. "We strengthen knowledge already present for the future in the Netherlands. This allows us to maintain and deploy our submarines ourselves. We also remain relevant and really meaningful, in cooperation with, for example, European countries."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u158	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u159	"If we have to, let's get in there strongly and not become dependent. The tax money thus pays back through more security, and a better position in the Netherlands and in international cooperation."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u160	Mrs. Van der Plas!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u161	Mr President, I would just like to read it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u162	I understand, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u163	Mr Stoffer also made a very long speech. So I find it rather annoying that there is a selective response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u164	No. That's very...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u165	This is a relevant app. I'd just like to read that message. I said that's how I feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u166	I am also very sorry that you take the word'selective' in your mouth, because I have the feeling that I am really trying to be very reasonable about this. I also said to Mr Stoffer that he should be shorter. If I had kept a clock on it, this interruption would have lasted a lot longer. So I'm giving you your e-mail now. And now you're asking the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u167	It is true that you said that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u168	I'm also looking at the clock a little bit. It's 10:15. The Minister still has four parts to go and then there will be a second term. So I'm trying to keep it together a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u169	I get that. You're doing the right thing, but I'm just annoying...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u170	But?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u171	This is what I'm talking about. I'm trying to finish my sentence. That's what I was trying to do. You just let Mr Stoffer speak his mind and then you rebuked him. With me, you talk through it, while I read a text relevant to the Minister from a directly concerned person. I have the impression now that the Minister may not have heard it all. But if he doesn't, I'll send him that text with all my love.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u172	There are a lot of people directly involved. They are organized to a very large extent in the armed forces, in the Defence Organization. They're all working on that subject. Eventually, all that information comes to me. I'm trying to convey it to you as best I can. What I am conveying to you is that there is currently no submarine capacity in the Netherlands, either in terms of design or in terms of construction. I would also like to point out to you that there is no longer any design capacity in the Defence Organisation that has existed in the past. That is why we do not order a Dutch shipyard to build a submarine. We can't do that in the Netherlands. That is why we have brought three different yards into competition with each other. And we will see how Dutch companies can still play a good role in the construction and maintenance of these submarines. I must point out that at the beginning of the text you read, there was talk of ships and submarines for which the expertise would be present in the Netherlands. As far as ships and radar are concerned, that is certainly the case. As far as submarines are concerned, this is only to a very limited extent, and certainly not enough for what is now necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u173	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u174	Then I come to the F-35 and with that to Mr Fritsma. Mr Fritsma had questions about the reliability and cost of the F-35. Firstly, I would like to say something about reliability. Mr Fritsma said that a lot of shortcomings had been identified, and that, according to him, indicated that it was not a good plane. Let me tell you that we have found that it is a very good plane. The pilots are very pleased with it. It has also been found in other countries that are already flying this plane. But it is a very critical, technical product that must operate under the most difficult conditions in the highest spectrum of violence. That means you have to be very focused on everything that needs to be discussed. That is therefore noted as a shortcoming. And then it's considered whether it's necessary to change that. And if so, what can we do about it and when? That's something we're always working on in this kind of capacity. I can tell you that at the F-16, which is about to be phased out, we still have lists of shortcomings. That's just how it works. Deficiencies are the outcome of the critical look at that plane. It's always gonna be that way. Deficiencies will come and go again. But in the end, it's about assessing whether we have a good plane here that can do what it has to do. The answer to that is that this is a good plane. Those who have the most sense of it, the pilots, are also very satisfied with it. But of course, a plane is never without risk. There must always be a sharp focus on those risks. What we do is to report on this transparently. We have TNO make a progress report, which also shows the starting position we had for the F-35. So we're looking at what's going on right now compared to what we originally thought. These results are shared with the Chamber through the progress report. These shortcomings also lead to continuous updates over the lifetime of decades, just like they do with smartphones and electric cars. During use there are things that can and should be done better. You'll get updates and then they'll be implemented. That's the way it is with those planes. Again, the demands are sky high, the risk is always present and a sharp focus is needed. And that is the case. But the conclusion remains: it is a good plane that the pilots are satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u175	That is too optimistic a story; let me put it mildly. Let me give you one example. The F-35 hasn't even been able to fly in a thunderstorm for over a year. That's just at this stage of a plane that embarrasses me. That's one shortcoming, one of the 875. I have a very specific question. How many shortcomings does the cabinet consider acceptable at this stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u176	I don't think a flaw in itself is a problem. I think that's evidence of serious risk assessment. I think that this should always be done very critically, that everything that is just a question should be written down and that attention should then be paid to it. That's right. It'll last decades. That's also what the F-16 showed. And the F-35 is a very good plane. And then things happen... I don't know exactly what's going on with those thunderstorms. I'm sure there's a little more to be said about that than you can do now in a question you're asking me. In general, I can tell you that I see shortcomings mainly as evidence of good critical follow-up. Should these deficiencies call into question the quality of the aircraft, this will certainly emerge from TNO's progress report and we will share it with the Chamber. I have no indication that that is the case. On the contrary, I think it is a good aircraft that we have very well purchased as successor to the F-16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u177	This is your last interruption, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u178	I know. I use it now, because that doubt about the F-35 may not yet be with the cabinet, but there is indeed abroad. In America, too, there is a very big discussion about this. There is also talk that there may be fewer F-35s to be used than planned. This would also have a huge effect on the costs for the Netherlands. I would like to ask you about this in concrete terms. How's that cost? A new memorandum of understanding talks about a Dutch contribution of 1.4 billion. That was more like 600 million. So there are not only major problems with the shortcomings, but also with the costs. Can the Minister comment on this cost aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u179	On the previous point, I have come to the conclusion that it is a good aircraft and that these deficiencies fit in with the process and are evidence of critical monitoring of what is happening there with that aircraft. Now the cost. I have already said that the F-35 must participate in the highest spectrum of violence for decades. Potential counterparties are developing. That also means you have to develop that plane. The entire life of the F-35 will have to be developed to function responsibly and successfully in the highest spectrum of violence. Those adjustments, these developments, cost money. These are amounts which Mr Fritsma rightly says are recorded in a MoU. The original MoU was released in 2006 and is now recorded in a new version in 2021. The Netherlands saw that coming before. We update our estimates every year by TNO. We process cost increases as quickly as possible. This means that cost increases that have occurred as a result of further development to date have already been taken into account in the progress report 2020. So they've already been shared with the Chamber. Mr President, this is the F-35.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u180	May I ask how far we are with the equipment component? I'm just asking this to make an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u181	If I weren't disturbed... or not questioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u182	"Insane"... finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u183	If I were not questioned, it should be possible in a minute or four, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u184	Look. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u185	Mr Fritsma also asked whether those nine additional F-35s we bought could be cancelled. I have already indicated that we are not going to do so, because those nine additional F-35s are a significant reinforcement of the armed forces. It's been decided. They've been ordered. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna leave it at that. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about unmanned weapons systems. Mr Van Dijk also mentioned this. In particular, it was a question of whether human control would remain in the picture. That human control certainly remains in the picture, because according to international law, this type of weapon is always fully and meaningfully under human control. The Netherlands uses this as a framework. If we work with weapons systems we have recently ordered four Reapers and the first one has been delivered and will soon be used..................................................................................................................................................... The Netherlands is also committed to making international agreements and frameworks for the use of such weapons. We also asked for advice from the International Affairs Advisory Council. So we will be constantly working on this subject, from the background that we believe that meaningful human control is a prerequisite for this type of unmanned weapon systems. Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga spoke about supplies in the defence sector. I have already indicated that there are major deficits there. The first step in the right direction has been taken with the sum of 300 million, which has become available with the Hermans motion. This has enabled us to take steps. I have already said that we want to raise the ammunition supply as quickly as possible. I have also indicated that major additional investments are needed in order to achieve operational support and deployment stocks in such a way that the readiness and employability of the armed forces will reach the level where we want them to be able to fulfil our mission in NATO. Mr Van Wijngaarden spoke on the handling of export licences and on access to financial services. He did so in the light of the criticism of the defence industry. The concerns about this are known to me. In this respect, I do not want to anticipate questions that I have received from the CDA on the potential impact of European regulation and on access to financial services. With the Defence Industry Strategy in 2018, the Cabinet identified the knowledge, technology and capabilities of the Dutch industry and knowledge institutions needed to protect the essential interests and national security of the Netherlands at all times. It also established what is needed as a basic defence technology industry in the Netherlands. I am convinced that the importance of this robust Dutch defence technology industrial base is unabated and that it is very important to maintain it. We, as Defence, are constantly looking to make the most of the opportunities we see for doing so. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the real estate. Mr. Jansen had been to a barracks and he described what it looked like there. He was very critical about that. Defense has a huge backlog in real estate, real estate. Mr Jansen has rightly pointed this out. During the past cabinet period, we have allocated more than EUR 1 billion for this purpose. That money is invested in the improvement of barracks and in the improvement of the alloy. That's what's needed. The start has already been made and will be continued with this amount. It's not nearly enough. If you look at it over a longer period of about 20 years, I think we don't need a billion, but an amount in the order of 5 billion or 6 billion to catch up. I also think we should look at this more broadly. We need to see what kind of real estate Defense has, what kind of real estate needs to be maintained, what kind of real estate can be upgraded and what new needs to be realized. If we do that, we also need to consider how possible a shift of locations towards the Randstad can take place, because most of the new forces we get come from the Randstad. It is important to take that into account. To put it more broadly, I think it's important that we focus on defense locations. If you have many scattered locations across the country, and you constantly move soldiers from one position to another, this means they have to move and their partner loses the job. That is not a desirable situation. If you concentrate the locations, if you bring them together, then a military can do its job in an environment for much longer and also perform different functions. This is for her or him, but also for her or his partner. That's what we're doing when it comes to real estate. I have already said that I think that the real estate to be divested can be of great importance for the housing inventory that exists in the Netherlands, as well as for nature restoration and nitrogen control. Ms Belhaj addressed the issue of sustainability. She asked the Department of Defense to report annually on fuel and energy consumption. We have set targets for this in the defence sector. The target for reducing dependence on fossil fuels is that it was reduced by 20% by 2030 and 70% by 2050. That's very ambitious. We also go a long way in that, for example by mixing biofuel with fossil fuel. If you are going to refuel with your car, as far as it is not an electric car, there is a maximum of 10% biofuel in the petrol. At DOD, we've brought that to 20%. In this way we are also taking steps in the right direction. We report on this every year. Since 2019, we have reported in the annual report on energy consumption, fuel types, gas consumption, electricity consumption and CO emissions. We intend to continue to do so in the years to come. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked about the challenges facing Defence in the field of biodiversity, and it wants to report on them. I think it is important to come up with the information that GroenLinks is asking for. I suggest that we do that in two stages. The first is that we ask the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf to give an overview of what has been monitored so far and what the results are. We will then produce this overview every year at Accountability Day. Then we will see what is not yet being monitored and what is not yet being investigated. We will then try to estimate how much time it takes to get that picture. I will use both tracks to provide the information that Mrs Bromet asked for. Mrs Bromet also spoke about the airport decisions. I think she is referring in particular to De Peel Air Base and Gilze-Rijen Air Base. As far as flight base De Peel is concerned, we think that with the F-35s we bought, the nine that come with it, we can go out with the sound room of Leeuwarden and Volkel. They look at De Peel because there can be arguments and add extra space. There's a sound room on De Peel. We'll see what the responsible possibilities are there. We will, of course, talk about this with the surrounding area. A process will also be followed to bring this to a conclusion. But we should not anticipate that now. We must go through the process set in motion to see what is possible in a responsible way and talk to the Chamber about it by the time we want to draw conclusions from it. She also talked about the problem of nitrogen around De Peel, which is also evidently present. There are too high emission and deposition values in that area. That is certainly a risk for the possible reactivation of De Peel Air Force Base. That is why we are working on an application under the Nature Protection Act to see what is or is not possible there. If nitrogen emissions are too high there, then there is a toolbox in the law to deal with them. This can be done by internal or external netting, but these are complex and also expensive processes. But let's see what's going on there and what solutions there are possible. Then I come to another subject that is of great interest to the Chamber: the radar stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u186	Mrs. Bromet, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u187	Yeah, I know. I have a question about those airport decisions and about the flying. My colleague, Tom van der Lee, has been here with a number of colleagues to the Baltic States. He has heard what the situation is like there and he wonders if it is possible to make those flight hours there. The people who live there are very happy with the presence of aircraft. Instead of nuisance, as is often experienced here, it is perceived as a safe feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u188	That is certainly the case. We do such activities in Lithuania. As Mrs Bromet says, this is also seen as support by that country and by the people of that country, who are under pressure from Russia. Lithuania would like NATO troops. Defence supplies a third of NATO troops in Lithuania, and there is a decision by the Cabinet, which was shared with the Chamber in a letter, to continue for a number of years. We have been in Lithuania for five years and we intend to stay there for three more years. There are also exercises taking place there. We also flew in that area with the F-16 back then. We practice a lot in America and we also do our training there. Furthermore, we do as many flights as possible over the North Sea and possibly in other countries. But it is necessary that we have our own planes where the people live and where the maintenance takes place. So there is a flight from Leeuwarden and Volkel. What has to be done there is still within the sound room. But for enlargement, we have the Peel in the picture and the procedure is under way. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the radar stations, a subject that interests us all very much, I think. It is also a good thing that we are dealing with this, because it concerns the security of Dutch airspace. The Dutch airspace lies above the Netherlands and above a part of the North Sea. It is part of the entire airspace of the NATO area. We are obliged to monitor the part of us well with radar. We have a very big problem right now. We have an old radar station in New Milligen. That station is vulnerable and, for example, it has been out for five days in the month of October. We have a new radar station in Wier, but there are problems with sound production. As a result, that radar doesn't run at night and on the weekends. For example, in the month of October we had days that both Nieuw-Miligen didn't function and that didn't turn Wier on the weekend. Then there was absolutely no surveillance by the Netherlands of the Dutch airspace. That is an unacceptable situation. We need two good radars, one in Wier and one more in the middle of the country. Previously, Herwijnen was in the picture as a location. It was also not very long ago, in February 2020, that an RCR procedure, a state coordination scheme, was launched. There's been frequent talk with the Chamber about that radar. The Chamber has also made statements on this matter. Then we went to see if there could be alternatives. To find those alternatives, we have first enlarged the search area. We did that by raising that radar. We now assume a radar with a height of 34 meters instead of 24 meters. That means you can search a larger area for alternative locations. That's the investigation we did, and the report's almost done. Which locations in it come up, we already have in mind. What we are about to do is to talk to the provinces of the provinces of the region, which are three municipalities, and to the municipalities where they are located, to talk about what the possibilities are. I'll see what comes out of it. Only when that's clear can I see where a radar can be placed soon enough. Before it's clear where that can be done, I'm not going to decide to rule out a location or to stop a state coordination procedure. That would be irresponsible. We received reactions from the people from Herwijnen, but of course we also get reactions from people in other places. If it becomes the situation that we have to come to the conclusion every time that we do not want a particular location, then the end of the song is that we cannot meet our obligation to monitor airspace. And guarding that airspace isn't bullshit. If a plane has been hijacked and that plane enters our country, it must be detected. Then we need to be able to take action and that is why we always have two F-16s in the air. If there is to be an enemy plane, then there must be a response to it. If there's a drone coming, we need to respond to that. So we just need that radar and this is a very sensitive matter. I think it is right to wait for the broadest possible research, to wait for the talks with provinces and municipalities, then to draw a conclusion for the whole and not to anticipate it. That's what the radar stations are about. Madam President. Then I come to a question from Mr Stoffer, who asked about the need and increase of air transport capacity and the financial consequences. As the Netherlands, we have three types of air capacity. We have three C-17s in Hungary with a number of countries, very large cargo vehicles. We have the right to use one of those C-17s for 500 hours a year. We have bought nine transport and tank aircraft from Airbus with a number of countries. Four of these transport and tank planes are stationed in Germany and five are stationed in Eindhoven. We have also bought a lot of availability for these devices. Furthermore, we have four Herculesses. Those are the four that are going to be replaced and we hope that we will be able to get that replacement by 2026. Then that is also an important air transport capacity. But the whole of what the Netherlands has is measured by the need within Europe and the need within NATO, not much. This is really at least what we need and we will have to continue to seek and consult with other countries, including within NATO and within the European Union, on how we can achieve together the need for this expensive transport capacity as efficiently as possible. Mr Boswijk asked about the surveillance and security of the windmills at sea and the data cables. This is an important issue, which we are discussing with all the countries around the North Sea. Economic Affairs is also involved, because these windmills are one of the supporting elements of future electricity production in the Netherlands. It is therefore also necessary to find out what is needed to protect it. From both a civil and a military point of view, we are talking about this with a number of countries and I think it is important that Mr Boswijk already indicated that we are doing what is necessary here. The North Sea used to be the sea, which was for the Navy. At first all these cables went from America to the Netherlands via the North Sea. Then we and other countries fill the North Sea with windmills, which means that there is a whole new situation to be dealt with by the Defence Department. Ms Bromet asked for more openness about the budgets of the Defense Cyber Command and of the STUDY. Mr Van Wijngaarden also spoke about rules of engagement for the retaliation of cyber attacks. I have already indicated that cyber attacks are a major concern for us in the Netherlands. We see these cyber attacks coming at us every day. They are intended to steal information from Dutch companies, knowledge institutions and governments. They are meant to disrupt and to make sure that the case here, at a time when someone else wants it, turns into the soup. It is therefore a great concern for us to adequately defend ourselves against this. At the moment, this is not enough and we are therefore working hard to see how we can get this right. Those rules of engagement certainly come into the picture. Mrs Bromet wanted more information on this. The Defense Cyber Command is a relatively small component and has one specific task aimed at carrying out cyber operations. If you make that budget completely public, it gives important information to potential opponents, enemies, to visualize our digital impact, and we don't want that. We are in the process of building that command, and I think we should do so in the interests of the Netherlands and not make the enemy wiser than it already is. Then I come to the insight into the STUDY budgets. We will. But we do so to the committee for the intelligence and security services of the House of Representatives. He's responsible for the control of the STUDY. In view of the repeated request made by the Chamber today, I will see what I can do in the 2023 budget to give more insight, as much insight as possible into the entire budget of the STUDY. I do this with due regard for national security. It has been discussed before and Mrs Bromet has now brought it up again. Mr Jansen spoke about the BRIK II satellite. He wants us to be the frontrunner in space. I think it is very good that he expresses that ambition. I have also told him that in space, as a result of what other countries are doing there, there are very serious problems that need an answer. I'm almost at the end. Then I come to the uniforms at demonstrations, which Mr Boswijk asked about. The question concerns the maintenance of the ban on the wearing of uniforms by citizens. Look, wearing a uniform is part of the pride of the military. If you're wearing a uniform, you're available for something, you're committed to society as a whole, you've had training, you've got skills and then you can be broadcast. So a uniform is something a soldier wears with pride. This means that people who have no right to wear uniforms and do so must be dealt with. That has to be done by the police. I think we should keep doing that. I will see to what extent that is done to a sufficient extent. My idea is that this is not so bad and that these are incidents. These people also often wear part of a uniform. But it's something we need to keep an eye on permanently. Then there is the issue of military uniform participation in demonstrations. That's okay when it comes to working conditions. Other demonstrations are deemed not to be in uniform. That's also in the Military Disciplinary Law Act. And we will maintain that, because it is good to do so. Mr. Chairman. I think I've come a long way. If the Chamber wishes any additions, I am happy to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u189	I think you've come a long way. I will look at the members in this first term. Have there been any unanswered questions? That is not the case. Then we shall continue with the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all the answers he has given. Afghanistan was clearly at the centre of defence this year. The bitter reality in that country has caught up with naive creative thinking, and has proved that the effectiveness of foreign missions is often completely lacking. The PVV believes that we should not use our armed forces for this anymore. We need that force to defend our own territory. And we have heard once again that at the moment, the Defense Department is not even capable of doing that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop using our armed forces for foreign missions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u191	The second motion concerns diversity policy and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to immediately and fully eradicate the diversity policy in the Defense Department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u192	Mr. Chairman. Of course, choices must always be made about the best use of taxpayers' money. The F-35 is certainly not that as far as the PVV Group is concerned. There are more pressing needs. Hence the third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to order nine additional F-35 units free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've discovered a new secret weapon here. That's Minister Kamp. He's played everybody out. Thank you so much for providing us with so much information and for being available on such short notice. I think that's worth a thank you. In any case, I have one question to which the answer is still a little unclear for me. I don't need an answer to that today, but I'd like to get a memo about it later. It's about how many vacancies we actually have right now. In June 2020, the then Secretary of State Visser indicated that there were 9,000 vacancies. July 1, 2021, it was reported that we had 87% filling on 67,000 people. Then you get to about 8,700. We just heard that it's about 3,600. It would be nice if we could get some kind of clear specification of those facts. Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 40% of our energy from wind farms will be in the North Sea in the future;]] [[noting that many of the wind farms and Internet cables are outside the 12 mile zone;]] [[noting that many Russian ships with unknown reasons are already in these waters;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the possibilities of jointly developing a strategy for protecting our crucial infrastructure located in the North Sea together with NATO, and in particular countries located in the North Sea such as Norway, Germany, Denmark, Great Britain, France and Belgium, and to report to the Chamber on this before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Stoffer, Mr Belhaj, Mr Piri and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u194	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during several anticorona demonstrations demonstrators wear military uniforms and abuse the Red Cross emblem on helmets, clothing and flags;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Articles 196 and 435c of the Code of Criminal Law, the wearing of military uniforms by citizens is not permitted;]] [[Whereas Article 435c of the Code of Criminal Law prohibits the use of the Red Cross emblem by persons not entitled to do so;]] [[Whereas it is prohibited for military personnel to wear their uniforms if they take part in a demonstration, unless it takes place in the Netherlands and is exclusively subject to the conditions of employment applicable to the military, and the wearing of the uniform discredits the armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government to enforce more strictly the above-mentioned articles of law and the prohibition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Piri, Mr Stoffer, Mr Ceder, Mr Belhaj and Mr Van Wijngaarden.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u195	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much. I listened to him with great respect. He said, "Defense is there to defend what generations have built for us." I would add that Defence is also there to preserve and protect the things we have built for generations after us. This means that we are already thinking about threats and already making investments, including in the submarines. That's what the next two motions are about. I'm going fast, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in accordance with the EZ manufacturing industry letter of 30 October 2020 and the Defence Industry Strategy 2018, the Cabinet aims at minimum dependence on (businesses in) third countries in ensuring essential national security interests;]] [[Whereas, when awarding the best boat for the best price for risk management and the development of national security interests and strategic autonomy, the "best boat" criterion is not a purely technical comparison, but also includes the possibility of strategically autonomous and independent use of the weapon system throughout the lifetime;]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure this strategic autonomy and maximum employability of the boat, it is desirable and necessary for Defence, Dutch companies and knowledge institutes to be able to maintain and upgrade the boat as independently as possible throughout the life phase;]] [[Whereas, in order to be involved in the whole life stage, an essential role in production is highly desirable;]] [[Whereas this strategic autonomy should be ensured in the award criteria of the boat;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ensure internal security of the essential national security interest and strategic autonomy, including the involvement of the Golden Triangle, at the entire life stage of the submarine;]] [[to formulate primary and secondary requirements in the tender application and, if necessary, to inform the Chamber in confidence about the balance between primary and secondary requirements in the assessment framework and implications for strategic autonomy resulting from the choices made;]] [[inform the Chamber of the consequences of this on the lifetime costs of the submarines in relation to the return on investment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Defence Cyber Command belongs to an "atypical" part of the labour market and that the military has an urgent mission, given the increasing threat in the cyber domain;]] [[Whereas, for this reason, the Cyber Commando is already able to recruit and select reservists in a different way, as well as to recruit civilian personnel;]] [[Whereas the Defence Cyber Command for the influx or transit of military personnel is still fully dependent on operational commands such as the Army;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Defence Cyber Commando its own appointment mandate after completion of the HR transition, so that it can appoint and transfer military forces in a similar manner to the current operational commands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Wijngaarden, Stoffer, Boswijk, Ceder, Van Haga and Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-24]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Haga, Mr Bromet, Mr Belhaj and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Impressive how the minister stands right in front of the military and holds a long monologue. At some point there is no way through; I admit that, certainly not at this time. But there's gonna be a new moment. Mr. Chairman. I have one question and three motions. The question is: do you want to talk to those involved about the AOW-hole? They're very concerned. It concerns the mandate of the Van Zwol Committee. They want a broader mandate. I'll wait for the answer. Mr President, three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Defence budget 2022 states: "If there is no additional investment, however, far-reaching choices will have to be made and the organisation will have to shrink structurally';]] [[having noted that strategic reconnaissances were carried out in 2008, which led to multiple scenarios for an effective Dutch military force;]] [[considers that an update of the explorations is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a contemporary defence policy based on updated explorations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that progress in the development of the replacement submarine capacity has been delayed;]] [[Considering that a debate on the tasks of the armed forces is necessary due to the need for financial and operational priority;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the project on the renewal of submarines until further notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Air Force shares in the use of US nuclear weapons (nuclear sharing), while also practicing the use of nuclear weapons procedures in order to be able to effectively use the nuclear weapon stored in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that some of the new JSF devices are equipped with a modernised nuclear weapon;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to refrain from the nuclear sharing policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-27]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u197	Mr. Chairman. I think I've been through six budgets. I always think it's a party. Everyone gets the room to give their own vision and there is already a thick book with all kinds of choices that are being made, whereby of course we are all going to try to get our own right, get a confirmation or change something. This year is a bit special because there is a outgoing cabinet. So there's no coalition agreement. People who are in opposition cannot say: yes, but you wrote this down and it didn't happen. People from the coalition parties cannot say: yes, we wrote it down, but it did not happen. In that respect, it is a bit of a special budget debate. When I look around, I see a lot of enthusiasm and energy for us discussing this with each other tonight. Since it is a bit of a special budget, I have decided to tell the story of how it has been with the Defense Department in the past few decades and what lessons can be drawn from it. That's always a bit ugly, because who am I to say: oh, now I understand what went wrong for 60 years; we're all going to do it differently. However, I thought it was important to tell you that, because I think it is good to be aware of the momentum that we are now in and in which many former parliamentarians have been in. Maybe it's up to us to do things differently and better. At least that's always my attitude. I hope that, with this budget, the Defence Department will be happy to look forward to the coming year. Who knows what will happen in the meantime in all kinds of negotiations. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the official organisation for answering all the questions we have asked in good time. I have one more motion, entitled 'framework local staff future international missions'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas regular coordination consultations between the Ministries of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security on local staff working for Dutch military missions have been held since 2014 and official agreements have been reached on the so-called interpretation arrangements;]] [[Whereas, in the chaotic final phase of the Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan, there has nevertheless been considerable uncertainty as to the responsibilities of the Dutch State vis-à-vis many of the local staff working or working for the Dutch mission;]] [[noting that this situation was caused by a lack of policy on local employees of international military missions and the responsibilities the Dutch State has vis-à-vis this group;]] [[calls on the Government to establish frameworks for the deployment of local employees, both under contract of employment and freelance, in future military missions and at Dutch embassies and consulates, and to define the responsibilities the Dutch State has or does not have with regard to these personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Belhaj, Mr Boswijk, Mr Ceder, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Stoffer, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u198	A further oral explanation, and I have already said this: whatever you do, make a choice. If you say you don't like to give these people some kind of guarantee to come to the Netherlands, then from day one you have to be honest with people and tell them that. I myself am in favour of making an assessment at the front or you think there are people who have helped you. Then people at the front must know that they can then count on the Dutch State to take that responsibility. But I don't think doing nothing is an option. I have also formulated the motion as openly as possible so that three ministries, perhaps even four, can think together about how we want to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u199	Mrs. Piri has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u200	Thanks to Mrs Belhaj. I thought it was a nice motion, which is why my name is underneath it. Mrs Belhaj is also one of those who have been very hard on interpretation in the Chamber in the past. I have another question about what exactly is the intention of the motion. There is an arrangement for the interpreters, thanks to you. There is an arrangement for other defence personnel, well, to the extent that they are assessed individually. In general, it makes sure that almost no one gets a positive decision, but there is one. With the previous Belhaj motion, you also wanted something to come not only for the people who worked for Defence, but for a wider group, on the Dutch mission. What would be the practical outcome, or what do you hope will be the result of this motion being carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u201	That's a very good question. The motion for a resolution on the interpretation system simply remains. That is an arrangement that is being implemented and that does not change. Two: I did indeed try, earlier, to table a motion in 2016 to settle it, which the PvdA did not support at the time, and you know I regret that. I note that there is no majority in the Chamber to table another motion of this kind, to say that you must wish to do so more broadly. Then I thought, "Okay, what's wisdom?" Submit a motion like that that won't make it? It makes me feel like a huge hero, but in the end, I didn't do anything. I can imagine that many ministries are slightly frustrated about how to implement the Belhaj motion, which is widely supported by all of us. I'd like to give them a chance to sketch out a framework of their own, if you have a mission, how you want to deal with your guards, with people who work on a compound? How far do you want to go in there? If these people say that they want to work for you, then you have to be fair as the Netherlands and say: you can work for me, but if there are problems, know that you have no contract and no right to a residence permit in the Netherlands. I myself would like us to do so, like many other countries, but there is no majority in the Chamber for that. But don't do anything, make people work for you and then when things go wrong, say, "yes, sorry, we didn't have a contract with you, that's a bit of a shame, good luck with hiding out," at least that's what I never want to see again. I really think that's the summum of cowardice you can show me. This is a way to challenge ministries to think for themselves about how they can guarantee, by mission, how people can work for us safely and feel safe when they've worked for us and escalate it. That's the hope. And then I have ten seconds left, and your hope is that I'll finish. That is what I have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u202	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I call Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Belhaj inspired me to see next time whether there is a majority in the Chamber for this broader arrangement. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have two motions. The first is that despite the fact that billions more have been spent over the past four years, during the past cabinet period, we do not see how this has contributed to the recovery of the armed forces. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the impact of many hundreds of millions more on reducing deficits in the past cabinet period is referred to as "limited";]] [[noting that the additional investments did not lead to the set-up of personnel and material readiness;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate in future how and when investments in equipment, real estate, ammunition, spare parts, etc. contribute to the operational employability and effective management of the armed forces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Bromet and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u204	The second motion is about staff. You won't be surprised. That was what my six interruptions were about, because the staff is getting off rather lightly, also in the budget for next year. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for years, defence has had difficulties in recruiting and, above all, maintaining staff and the prospects are not good;]] [[noting that the increase in the Defence budget has not improved and that the introduction of a new human resources model is not possible in a reasonable time;]] [[noting that the new wage building should have been in place by 1 June 2020, in accordance with the terms of employment agreement;]] [[considers that priority should be given to (maintaining) staff;]] [[calls on the Government to deploy the newly added structural financial resources added to the Defence budget for the early introduction of the new human resources model,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u205	Mr. Chairman. This was my first budget handling of the Defense Department. I am particularly looking forward to the number of motions from the opposition's ruling chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Piri. Mrs Bromet has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u207	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this debate, I went to the Minister and said to him: you do not have to give very long answers. Then he said, "Well, I need at least three hours." So that has become a reality. Thank you for all the answers. I would also like to thank you for the commitment that there will be more transparency about the STIB budget. I had a motion on that, but I'm not going to file it now. I still have a motion on the airport decisions. The Peel has been mentioned. As spokesman for nitrogen, I am closely involved in the problems with De Peel. The solutions mentioned by the Minister are really not as simple as he thinks. We in GroenLinks believe that governance is forward-looking and that consideration should therefore be given to the situation in which no permission is granted to fly above De Peel. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Defence has been preparing airport decisions to expand military activities at Woensdrecht, De Peel and Gilze-Rijen;]] [[noting that the success of the airport decisions due to severe criticism by residents and very limited nitrogen space in Brabant is extremely uncertain;]] [[Whereas alternatives to providing for the need of Defence to carry out more flights are conceivable, such as the conduct of training flights at the NATO presence in Lithuania, where military activity is precisely appreciated for deterrent effect;]] [[calls on the Government to identify policy alternatives to the situation that one or more airport decisions currently in preparation cannot take place as such and to inform the Chamber of these alternatives by spring paper at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer. We have put our name under a number of motions from colleagues. I don't have any motions of my own. I may have tabled a motion on the radar in Herwijnen, but I will await the conclusions of the investigation. Given the interests, I understand that, too. At the same time, however, there is an explanation of vote. That is why I want to continue to follow this from my control task in order to check whether the situation is being done right. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u209	Thank you. I call Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u210	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[heard the broad desire in the Chamber to better reward the military;]] [[Considering that Defence proposes to grant military a one-off payment of €1,000 per person as of 1 December 2021;]] [[Whereas this proposal is part of a package which includes the 1.4% increase as of 1 January 2022;]] [[Whereas the whole package is still part of negotiations between the trade unions and the defence sector;]] [[Whereas the payment of this one-off benefit should not depend on the acceptance or non-acceptance of the package;]] [[calls on the government to pay the one-off payment of €1,000 per person on 1 December 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u211	Mr. Chairman. It's late, and my time is short, so I'll start with the three motions I've got here in front of me right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas adequate helicopters and transport aircraft are essential for the effectiveness of the armed forces, both for the transport of military and equipment and for the execution of evacuations during crisis situations;]] [[Whereas at present, defence does not have sufficient air transport equipment to meet the needs of crisis situations or the demands of politics and society;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to increase the capacity for tactical and strategic air transport, and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk, Mr Eppink, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u212	The next one reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas training, training and discipline is one of the skills of many (ex-) military personnel;]] [[Whereas there may be a need for such skills in schools and youth centres, in particular in relation to the handling of young people who have criminal or otherwise problematic behaviour, and that Defence, Youth and Education can complement and reinforce each other in this respect;]] [[calls on the government to give veterans the opportunity to engage in disciplination, work leadership and rehabilitation of young people at risk of slipping into crime, and to release the necessary resources to this end and to seek coordination with Youth Care Netherlands, the VO Council, the MO Council and the VNG, and to inform the Chamber further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Piri, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u213	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in view of global geopolitical threats, rapid replacement of submarine capacity is directly in the national security interest;]] [[Whereas the Chamber via the Bruins-Movement Slot c.s. (31125, No. 96), the Van Helvert/Stoffer motion (35570-X, No. 63) and the Stoffer motion c.s. (35570-X, No. 30) has requested, inter alia, that the best use be made of a self-creative Dutch naval cluster;]] [[invites the Government to ask the participating shipyards to demonstrate whether and how they will involve the Dutch maritime industry as much as possible and at a high-quality strategic technological level in the design, development, construction and maintenance of the submarines, to explicitly involve their results in the continuation of the acquisition process as soon as possible, and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink, Mr Piri, Mr Ceder and Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u214	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u215	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. Mrs van der Plas, BBB, has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u216	Thank you. Thanks also to the Minister, of course, for the answer. And of course I always like to hear someone talk in the Twente for three and a half hours; then I feel completely at home here. Anyway, I still have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that military personnel have been scaled below the minimum wage;]] [[noting that there are reports from society that the financial situation of many military forces is acute;]] [[calls on the Minister to carry out an investigation into the financial situation of Defence personnel and to create a picture of the number of soldiers living in poverty or unable to make ends meet and to identify the reasons for doing so;]] [[calls on the Minister to share this investigation with the Chamber;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the defence sector is understaffed in thousands;]] [[Whereas excessive selection criteria may be a barrier for new staff;]] [[Whereas "net unfit" persons may be able to heal their incapacity during their training and training;]] [[Calls on the Minister to investigate which selection criteria could reasonably be made more flexible and to take into account the possibilities of eliminating these shortcomings within the structure of Defence;]] [[calls on the Minister to share this investigation with the Chamber;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Plas, Jasper van Dijk, Stoffer and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u217	I'll finish with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u218	Thank you to Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a disciplined debate, with military precision chaired by our President, but unfortunately the times are not coming. That's a bit of a setback for a defense debate. Yesterday I was a little admonishingly addressed by colleague Stoffer, who had his veteran pin on. I didn't, so I thought I'd make that up to you today. I thought we'd both be wearing it by now, but Mr. Stoffer forgot about it. That is, of course, inconceivable for a soldier. So I'm wearing it. For a veteran pin you don't have to be a veteran, I say for all the other people in the room. You can also sympathize with veterans. By the way, this pin belongs to my father. He's a veteran of New Guinea and the Congo. But Mr. Stoffer is getting up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u220	He feels called to say something to you or to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u221	Here it is avenged that I have been approved, but because of the delay I received I was not allowed to serve in military service. Then you can see that discipline is a bit lacking after all. Compliment for Mr Van Haga!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u222	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u223	I have a few more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the current Defence budget is well below the level to enable the military to function;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is still far behind the NATO standard of 2% GDP;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is at the bottom of the list of the European average in terms of defence expenditure;]] [[Whereas the complex contemporary threats demand a substantial investment in our armed forces;]] [[Whereas the Commander of the Armed Forces and the commanders of the Royal Navy, the Royal Army, the Royal Air Force and the Royal Marechaussee have sounded the alarm clock about the survival of the armed forces;]] [[Whereas the Defence Department itself has adopted a Defence Vision for 2035 with a financial transfer;]] [[calls on the Government to specifically embrace the Defence Vision 2035 and to legally define and decouple the implementation plan and growth path resulting from it as a National Security Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u224	I am going to go a little over my time, but my colleague Mr Ephraim will only have to speak a little shorter in the next debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for a specific group of soldiers, who had already been granted a functional retirement age at the time of an increase in the AOW age, they had no possibility to continue working for longer, a financial disadvantage has arisen;]] [[noting that the scheme "100% compensation for the justified claim' does not fully offset the financial disadvantage for this particular group;]] [[calls on the government to calculate the exact financial disadvantage;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and, if so, how this group can still be financially compensated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u225	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that in the formation of the new cabinet, an ex-military is proposed as Minister of Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-X-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u226	This motion was also tabled by Mr Smolders, who, incidentally, spent his time in the liaison forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u227	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. 23 motions have been tabled. The Minister is going to look at this briefly. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u228	We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u229	Thank you, Madam President. I am afraid I must disappoint Mr Fritsma. His first motion, in part No. 19, in order to stop using the armed forces for foreign missions, I must advise against it, because it is contrary to constitutional tasks. The motion in part No. Mr Fritsma's 20th report deals with the elimination of diversity policy. I have explained why I think it is right not to banish it. On the contrary. I'm not prepared to order the F-35s either. So that means that I also have the motion in part No. 21 detachment. So that means I'm deceiving the first three motions. The motion in part No. 22 by Mr Boswijk and others on what should be done in the light of developments in the North Sea. I think it's wise to check that out. I shall therefore leave the vote on the motion in respect of item No. 22 to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 23 also belongs to Mr Boswijk and a number of colleagues. This motion concerns the stricter enforcement of articles of law and a ban on wearing uniforms and demonstrating in uniform. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Chamber must realize that I am only dealing with matters that fall under the responsibility of the Secretary of Defense. Several ministers are involved in this. But I intend to do so and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 24 by Mr Van Wijngaarden is about the submarines. I have a problem with the consideration that there must be a domestic guarantee of the essential national security interest and strategic autonomy. I can't get out of my way with that. He asks for this to be ensured internally in a situation where there is no building and design capacity in the Netherlands in the industry and no design capacity in the Defence Organisation. So that's not a formulation I can get out of my way with. If he wanted to put it in such a way that a national balance would have to be struck in order to ensure a vital national security interest and strategic autonomy, if he wanted to change the motion with that wording, I could leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u230	I am looking at Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u231	No one is held to the impossible, neither is the cabinet. If that's what the cabinet can do, we'll adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u232	The motion in part No. 24 is amended as proposed and then is judged Chamber. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u233	It is not always considered chic when you ask questions about motions from others, even when they have a majority. I'm gonna do it anyway. I am, however, concerned about the question that is being asked here, especially that the primary demands should be reflected in the first part of the motion. I'm just gonna say it in plain human language. I don't want you getting kicked out of that tender procedure if you don't meet the primary requirements. That could mean that it could be hugely expensive, because then you may only have one consortium that is still eligible for it. In fact, I would like to ask whether the Minister is sure that this motion does not mean that it will be more expensive than necessary, because we are not just letting the market do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u234	I think that Mr Van Wijngaarden and others have rightly called for attention to be paid to the best possible involvement of the Dutch defence industry, and I have indicated that this is only possible to a limited extent, for reasons that have been sufficiently discussed. With what is stated in the first bullet in the request made to the government in the motion, I cannot ignore it, but Mr Van Wijngaard has accepted the wording 'a national balance to ensure a substantial national security interest and strategic autonomy'. I think that's a good wording. It allows us to focus on this important aspect of the whole process. I leave the verdict to the Chamber with that modified wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u235	That was the motion in part No. 24. Then the motion to part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u236	The motion in part No. 25 also belongs to Mr Van Wijngaarden. He's talking about Defense Cyber Command. On what he finally submits to the Chamber, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Jasper van Dijk wishes to take part in the motion on item No. 26 develop a contemporary defence policy based on up-to-date explorations. I've been talking about the reconnaissance. I've also indicated what the Defence Vision means. I've been talking about the Defence Note. I think that's what we should do. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 26 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. In the motion in part No. 27 asks Mr Jasper van Dijk to postpone the project on the renewal of submarines until further notice. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. In the motion in part No. 28 asks Mr Jasper van Dijk to ask the Dutch Government to refrain from a nuclear sharing policy. He'll be able to imagine that I'm also deposing this motion. I will not go into the arguments now. They're known to the Chamber. Then I have a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk about the AOW-hole. Others have also spoken about this. I have tried to explain as well as I can how that is and why I think that is good. I will speak with Mr Van Zwol next week on what the Chamber, and Mr Jasper van Dijk in particular, has asked for. That is the one who presides over the committee looking at the poignant cases. I'll talk to him about how he looks at the situation. I will then draw the conclusion as to how to follow up on this. First, I will have that conversation with Mr Van Zwol. The motion in part No. 29 is about frameworks for local employees. That is a motion by Mrs Belhaj. Mrs. Belhaj doesn't ask for a frame. She's asking for frameworks. It wants it to be properly recorded per mission and to receive the attention it wants. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u237	Before you continue, Mrs Van der Plas has a question. Is this about the motion in part No. 29?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u238	It is about Mrs Belhaj's motion, of which I am also a co-signator. I still have a question about the frameworks. This has been keeping me busy for several months. I was terrified at the time that we at the embassies didn't know who was working for us. This had to do with the lack of good IDs and passports. I've asked a question about that before. Do we even know who works at our embassies around the world? If you're gonna work here, you're gonna have to turn in a copy of your ID and the whole ram. My question is actually: can we look within these frameworks at the presence of a copy of the passport? I do not know if this is the right question to ask the Minister, but this still keeps me occupied with those frameworks. I was worried that people wouldn't be able to issue passports if they came to work for our public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u239	Mrs. Van der Plas talks about embassies. It seems to me that the embassies have the information Mrs van der Plas is referring to. I'll check it out. If that is not the case, I will inform your Chamber. Mrs Belhaj thinks more of the following. The Netherlands is on a mission somewhere. We then need local staff, such as interpreters and people for catering and security. They, you and the other signatories believe that the matter should be recorded on a mission basis, so that it is clear to those involved there and in the Netherlands. I think this is justified. If there is a framework for each mission, I think that it has added value and that we should do so. I replied to Mrs Van der Plas about the embassies. If it's any different, she'll hear it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u240	Let me be clear: I am also talking about local staff being hired there in some way to do something for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u241	At the embassy or on a mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u242	Yeah, well, of course on a mission, I suppose. I am concerned that we can guarantee the safety of our own people and that we know exactly who we charter there to do something for us. If these people don't have ID or can't issue passports, then we don't really know what their background is either. We can't check anything. That's actually my underlying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u243	You know, we are also in countries such as Mali, where 80% of the country's territory is completely absent. Apart from the fact that people there are illiterate, they don't have a government that gives them anything. It may well be that someone like that gets turned on somehow. I would therefore prefer to have each mission, per area, look at what is reasonably possible and necessary and then do so. I would like to see this motion as an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u244	That was the motion in part No. 29. Then we are now at the motion in part No. 30, by Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u245	The motion in part No. 30 belongs to Mrs. Piri. It states that the government must indicate how and when investments in equipment, real estate, ammunition, etc. contribute to operational employability. You are making it difficult for me there, Mrs Piri, because it is actually a cost-to-readine model. What are you doing? What do you spend on money? What are the effects of this on preparation? There is no such thing in the whole world. However, I think it is a fair question. We had realised that ourselves. We have now started to see if we can develop that ourselves. That is not exactly what you are asking for in the motion, because you are asking for it to be done. We are still, in our opinion, the first in the world to develop that. So you're running a little too fast with the motion. That's why I'm telling her off. But know that we are working on this because we consider it important to do so if possible. Then the motion to part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u246	Mrs. Belhaj. I was just looking at Mrs. Piri first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u247	That's usually very logical, but sometimes it doesn't. The Minister states: we find it interesting and we are developing it. It now says: 'calls on the government to declare in future'. It is simply: "Is the government asking for this to be developed"? If Mrs Piri wanted to do the same thing and asked for that to be put back together, wouldn't that be the same? I say this to Mrs Piri and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u248	I find it rather compelling. It's not possible to report it from now on, because we don't have the model. To develop it is really an assignment for us, while we are already working on it and see if that is possible. If Mrs Piri were to make it 'calls on the government to indicate the possibilities for... ', so that we should make it clear to the Chamber what the possibilities are for doing what she wants here, also because we have started and we consider it important, I could leave the opinion on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u249	I'll take a look at Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u250	An important part of the discussion we had here was that there was additional investment to increase operational employability. Four years later, the question arises as to whether this has indeed had the desired result. If the Minister says that he can at least take a first step with that change, then I am prepared to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u251	I would also like to be available to discuss this with Mrs Piri over the next few days, before Tuesday, to see how the exact text of the operative part should become.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u252	The motion in part No. 30 therefore, after amendment, receives the Chamber's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u253	Yes. And I'll discuss the exact date with Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u254	Then the motion to part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u255	In the motion in part No. 31 The government is asked to provide structural additional resources for the early introduction of the new human resources model. The resources we have received, the 300 million made available to the Hermans motion, have already been earmarked. The Chamber did that to itself. The Chamber has indicated to do that, that and that with the money. That is what we have worked on. In the meantime, we have informed the Chamber of what amounts are being paid. However, we naturally consider that there is a need for additional resources in this area, and we have talked enough about this, but the link that is being made here must lead me to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Bromet's 32 requests that policy alternatives be identified. It is then a question of several airport decisions. She also mentioned three of them. We've already looked at possible alternatives. We think we should conclude that these other options are not desirable in operational terms, that they impose too much burden on staff and that they are too expensive. We believe that what we now have in mind, what is to be decided and what we are going to do before taking a decision. I therefore advise against Mrs Bromet's motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 33 by Mr Jansen, in which he asks the government to pay €1,000 per person anyway. That €1,000 would be part of a total agreement we make with the unions. If, on the basis of the consultation of the employees, the unions come to the conclusion that this interpretation should be rejected for the year 2021, the parts will also lapse and then there will be a need to talk to the unions again, possibly linked to a discussion on the collective agreement 2022-2023. This motion by Mr Jansen and other signatories I advise against. Then I have the motion in part no. 34 by Mr Stoffer. He wants us to take steps towards the expansion of tactical and strategic air transport. I don't think that's realistic. A lot of things have to happen. What we're doing here is already a number of steps. We also take a next step with the replacement of the Hercules from 2026. I don't want to take another step on top of that. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 34. The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's 35th report deals with the disciplination, training and rehabilitation of young people at risk of slipping into crime. I don't want to do that, because that's not DOD's job. There are others in favour of interfering in that important task. I also think it could be a major burden on the defence industry, which could keep us from our actual work, which is already complex and complicated and demanding enough. That is why I have to make this motion by Mr Stoffer on point No. 35 dissuaded. The motion in part No. 36 by Mr Stoffer and a large number of co-signatories are concerned with the replacement of submarines. As he has put it in this motion, I can incorporate it into the way in which dialogue is currently taking place. He says 'as much as possible' and I would like to interpret that as 'where possible'. If he has no objection to that interpretation, I will leave this motion to the Chamber with the judgment. So interpret "as much as possible" as "wherever possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u256	Of course, you can always take that a little spacious and take it a little scary. If we understand each other in such a way that we are really being looked at very seriously, also in the vein of how we had the interrupting debate earlier, then we understand each other very well. I have made it clear how important it is for the maritime industry and for the people who are about to come up with it. I assume he is not going to say that, but if the Minister says 'we are looking at it a little lightly', then I am in favour of the firmer wording, say the wording as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u257	What Mr Stoffer has brought into the debate is of the utmost importance. I hope he will also find it important what I have brought to the debate on that point. I think we both think it is important that the Dutch defence industry, which is already doing a great deal for the defence industry, should be involved wherever possible. If the interpretation is 'where possible', then that is an interpretation that also requires a positive attitude on our part. I'd be happy to give it to you. In view of what Mr Stoffer has said, I think we can leave the motion with that interpretation to Chamber. The motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Van der Plas asks for an investigation into poverty in the military. That's something I can't do. Under the privacy rules, we should not interfere with such matters of our employees in the form stated by Mrs Van der Plas in her motion. Moreover, I think it is more important that I have indicated that I think it is important that there should be a new wage building and that there should be a better reward from the military. I think we should wait and see what comes out of the formation. Then we need to work on this in the Defence Paper and then Mrs van der Plas can assess whether she likes it. That leads me to make this motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Van der Plas. Mrs Van der Plas is asking for an investigation into the adjustment of selection criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u258	Wait a minute. Mrs van der Plas has another question to ask you about the motion on item No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u259	I wonder why you can't. After all, it does not need to be done by name and by name. I thought the Minister might be able to carry out an investigation together with the trade unions, so that we know exactly what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u260	I'm not shy about research. I know that the lower ranks in the Defense Department require repairs. I'm waiting for money to do that. It's all coming up soon, you know, because I understood that there's supposed to be a new cabinet by Christmas. We will then proceed with the Defence Note in January. Very soon afterwards, you can see what's out there for the staff. You also know what my intentions are. So I don't think we should investigate that again. We have enough research to do, and I think we should be selective in that. I don't want to launch that investigation, and that's why I'm making the motion in part No. 37 detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u261	I hadn't heard we had a new cabinet for Christmas. That's news to me, but maybe I missed something in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u262	Then the motion to part No. 38 by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u263	Mr President, I quoted the Agricultural Daily. So that's got to be good! The motion in part No. 38 calls for an examination of the adjustment of selection criteria. I do not disagree with Mrs van der Plas on this. It is not about lowering the criteria. She says: you have to change that; you have to deal with it in a different way. With the way she talked about it, I can get out of my way. I shall therefore leave the vote on the motion for a resolution to Item No. 38 to the Room. The motion in part No. 39 belongs to Mr Van Haga and wants us to define the Defence Vision as a national security plan. I'm not going to anticipate the responsibility of my successors. This cabinet has established a Defence vision. The next cabinet will continue to implement this. They will then be able to make that clear in a defence note, and I believe that every cabinet should have that freedom, also on the basis of the financial situation as it is at the time. The motion in part No. 39 by Mr Van Haga as it is before us, I therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. Mr Van Haga's 40 concerns the AOW age and compensation. I propose to Mr Van Haga to hold that motion. I have already said that I am going to talk to Mr Van Zwol next week to see how he looks at that situation, which I have also spoken about very specifically this evening. After that discussion with Mr Van Zwol, I will see what I will or will not do with it. I think that Mr Van Haga could wait and then perhaps make a motion. But right now, I'm recommending that he hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u264	Mr. Van Haga, are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u265	Yes, I am fine with that, but is it possible, perhaps, in that conversation with Mr Van Zwol, to clarify a little more about what the amount is, so that we also know what the damage is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u266	Yeah, but I'm pretty sure there's no such damage, so I can't make a commitment on an amount. Let me open this conversation with Mr Van Zwol and see what conclusions I can reach next. But at the moment I am not ready for an amount, because I do not think that is the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u267	Okay, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u268	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (35925-X, No. 40). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u269	Then the motion to part No. 41 by Mr Van Haga. It's not addressed to me. I think it's addressed to the Chamber. He's telling the Chamber what to do, so I won't judge it. Did I get the motions with that? I'll see if I left anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u270	I'll check to see if there are any outstanding questions. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u271	The Minister went through it in haste, so quickly that at some point at the motion in part No. 34 on expanding the capacity for air transport...My raggy political feeling told me that's something that costs money. What did the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u272	I didn't recommend that motion. We have already put a lot of effort into air transport capacity. In C-13's, for example, those big transport planes that are at the airport in Hungary. We bought 500 hours of that. We've invested in the tank and transport planes, five of which will be on Eindhoven. We're going to invest in the Hercules again. I don't think it's wise, given all the stuff we have, to say here now that more needs to come. That's why I'm deposing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u273	Let me get this straight. So the Minister says: I do not think that is necessary at the moment, but it would also require an additional investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u274	It's definitely gonna cost extra money. This means that you have to expand the existing capacity or attract new capacity. If you see the whole thing that we already have and what we need to have ready with staff and with conservation, then I'd rather not have this included. All right, Madam President. If there are no other things in the Chamber that have remained, then this could be the closure of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u275	Almost. Mr Stoffer has another question concerning his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u276	No. I have a motion I would like to make, the motion in part No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u277	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (35925-X, No. 35). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u278	What is the second amendment about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u279	About the Support Command. It is the amendment in part No. 18. I should also like to look at Mr Stoffer and Mr Piri. Is it true that that amendment was tabled? Yes, I see Mrs. Piri nodding now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u280	Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to do what you said. I will respond in writing to both amendments. I'll do that for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u281	Well, thank you so much for that. This brings us to the end of this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-11-tweedekamer-26.u282	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Wednesday. We have a bit of a different layout of the week next week. So we are voting not on Tuesday, but on Wednesday on the motions. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and his reply. I would like to thank my colleagues and all my colleagues for this evening.
