ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the report by the parliamentary interrogation committee on undesirable influence from non-free countries, also known as POCOB. Welcome to three heads of government: the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Legal Protection. I do not know what order they are going to speak in, but I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs will begin. We're gonna do the first term on the side of the Chamber first. Mrs Becker will be the first to speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Ah, Mr. Azarkan. You have another point of order, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to. This debate is about unwanted influence from non-free countries. Now I have here from one of the investigated parties a court ruling. It indicates that the committee also wanted to know what funding was from free countries. That is beyond the mandate of the committee. The committee did not mention any of this in its investigation report. The judge flagged back the committee and said, "You're asking too much." I know that the committee no longer exists, but I would like to know why the committee specifically asked for information from free countries in relation to at least one Islamic institution. Because that was not the problem and it was not within the mandate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	I understand your question. I'll deal with the next problem. This question is indeed a question for the committee, and we cannot deal with it in plenary at the moment. I think we could pass this on to the committee. I don't really know if it's been officially granted discharge. Often this happens only after the debate on a report has taken place, so I think that the committee is still in office in that sense. I suggest that we pass your question on to the committee and see what answer will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you for that. I will state in my contribution what questions I have to ask the committee. If they can be answered at a later date, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	Fine, then we'll make a deal. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps Mr Azarkan can also put these questions to his colleague from his own group who was a member of this committee. I believe that this committee has reported on behalf of all parties, with the exception of the PVV, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. Politics can sometimes be a struggle between political parties at the sharpest of the cuts. We all know this very well here in the Committee on Integration. Today we are discussing a topic where I really hope we will find each other. That we are not talking about political contradictions here, but about a joint mission for freedom. For years we have been saying from the left to the right that we do not want influence in Dutch mosques, at weekend schools or via the Internet by orthodox and unfree forces from countries like Kuwait, Saudi Arabia but also Turkey. That we want a firm approach to hate images and to the diaspora politics that some countries are pursuing here. Because we've seen what a poisoned soil can eventually lead to. Dislocation, lack of freedom and, unfortunately, sometimes the worst: terror. Not so long ago, we saw decapitations in France. In hiding teachers in the Netherlands because children can't stand a cartoon. School trips to radical preachers. Threats. Words about stoning women. Circumcision of young girls. Or the jihad in mosques, just here in The Hague, Dordrecht, Rotterdam, Geleen recommended. Mosques that often also receive money from abroad. This has finally got to stop. The VVD believes that we must defend our freedom to the fullest. And if anything makes that need clear, that is the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, which we are discussing here today. I would like to take this opportunity to start by thanking Members for their work. I also thank President Rog, who said goodbye this week with a royal award, for his leadership in it, because it was not always easy. We saw the footage of a disrespectful imam who interrupted the committee and didn't want to get up, and we saw a mosque that didn't want to share pieces. It's a good thing there's been a report and the work is done. I would also like to thank all those brave witnesses who appeared before the committee but who were then threatened. That shows once again how serious this problem is. Mr. Chairman. The Committee notes that in the Netherlands there is a often conscious financial strategy from non-free countries to enter the heads and hearts of our Muslim communities, with the risk of parallel societies. I deliberately say 'our Muslim communities', because it is often the benevolent Muslims in this country who suffer from this. The influence behind this is trying to stay invisible. In salafistic circles in the Netherlands sometimes a moderate form of salafism seems to be confessed, but the AIVD says that this is only façade politics. They may not show their true intentions, but behind closed doors there is an agenda of overthrowing our freedom. A stepping stone from political salafism to jihadist salafism, to the salafism of deeds, is lurking. And the effect of this kind of influence, of these kinds of developments, we see in practice: an alleged increase between 2014 and 2018 to 27 mosques with a salafistic signature in this country. That's 5% of the mosques. A young generation of orthodox Muslims took over power in the Al Houda mosque in Geleen and started a hotshot against the original mosque visitors. Visitors to the Al-Fourqaan mosque were at some point suspected of preparing terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am going to interrupt you for a moment, because Mr De Graaf would like to place an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	I thought it was a very nice introduction from Mrs Becker. Many of the Committee's observations are observations that we have made as PVV, and before that as the Wilders Group, since 2004. We have tabled dozens, perhaps more than 200, of motions on much more than all these observations. I brought a little pile. If I am going to count, then the VVD has always voted against some 70% to 80%, perhaps even 90%, of the motions we have tabled. They are about all these observations, which we have made here in the Chamber since 2004. In addition, over the past eight years, under Mrs Becker as MP and under the VVD in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet and in the last cabinet, 100,000 people from Islamic countries have come to the Netherlands. There are still around 400 to 500 asylum seekers a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	That is a huge stimulus from abroad, a financial incentive that costs us money and that is a great influence for our society, our culture and even for the personal identity of people. What is Mrs Becker going to do in the next period of government, and who is she going to do in order to solve this, to get a lot of those people out of there and to make sure no one else joins?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	Because then we take a lot of that influence away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	The PVV says that the VVD does not support our motions for this fight. But we don't need PVV moves for that. If you look at the PVV's agenda and the shocking election programme, in which the PVV argues for de-Islamicisation programmes in the Netherlands, then the PVV really does not work regularly. The PVV regularly removes entire population groups. The PVV is targeting people on their origins. That's not my Netherlands. I will not support any motions tabled with that intention. Moreover, the PVV also very often submits motions that are not legal, because we cannot stop all mosque funding from abroad tomorrow. It's been figured out, but it can't be. That is not constitutional, so we are with a lot of parties looking at what we can do to tackle problematic funding. I would like the PVV to join that realistic agenda instead of completely outplaying itself with these kind of absurd political ideas about the de-islamisation of the Netherlands, because then you are simply not taking it seriously anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Well, nice rehearsal. I thought GroenLinks was still there in the benches, but GroenLinks appears to be there as well. Mrs. Becker says we can't solve this tomorrow. But still: sixteen years of motions, all serious motions and some motions are not even legal according to the VVD. A lot of things can be tackled: the anbistatism of mosques, for example, or the closing of mosques where indeed violent preachers are invited. Never did the VVD support these motions. These are very practical, simple motions that can just be carried out tomorrow. Sixteen years the VVD has refused... we can talk about the report that has been released... but for the past eight years...One of the perpetrators of the influence, one of the facilitators of the influence that has increased, which stands right in front of me. Then how can Mrs. Becker jeremize about the fact that we want to deal with it? She helped make it worse herself with her support for the cabinet sitting there and her support for the cabinet sitting before it. So what are we talking about? Never supported, even facilitated, but the PVV did it because we are not constitutional. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	Bullshit! With the VVD there have been some steps taken in recent years. Perhaps it is precisely with the VVD, among other things in tackling hate images and in tackling extremist organizations, for which Minister Dekker has submitted a bill to enable organizations to dissolve more quickly, Article 220 of the Civil Code. In a moment I have a whole list of things that we are indeed satisfied with because good steps are being taken. That's how you get together in this country. Not by putting yourself out of business by discrimination against entire sections of the population here. I would like to call on the PVV to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	I remember that Mrs Becker wanted a compliment from the PVV in one of the recent debates; I do not think that is possible today. It's not gonna work today. She wanted to because she had managed to negotiate a harsh policy because she wanted to choke the kids in Moria. She said, "I did what you want me to do, didn't I? And now you're still critical." I see Mr De Graaf of the PVV nodding. Mrs Becker wonders why I don't get a compliment? I hear her defending the rule of law. She says to the PVV: what you are proposing is not legal. Well, what Mrs. Bente Becker suggests in the paper isn't legal either. She wipes her butt with the report. She says: even if the report says it can't be done, even if this cabinet doesn't want to deal with it, I still want it, and I'm going to look for a majority; I'm going to look for the tyranny of a majority and impose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mrs Becker, I say this through you, because you are not defending the rule of law at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	You...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	Well, Mr. Chairman, just a little bit longer. The draft election programme even says that you want to limit people going to court to get their rights through the ECHR. You're not under the rule of law. You're actually some sort of PVV, only it takes a few years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	Would you like to speak through the chairman? I give the floor to Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	I almost stopped listening after Mr Azarkan uttered his terrible lies at the beginning, namely that I would have advocated that there should be a harsh policy of suffocating children. I'd like to distance myself from that here. Because the VVD also thinks that we should never abandon people and children. However, we also believe that there should be a fair asylum policy, in which these vulnerable children are no longer put on boats because there is shelter in the region and because we can bring people to it in a safe way by invitation. That is a strict and fair asylum policy. I only spoke to the PVV at the time about the fact that, if they claim to be in favour of a strict and fair asylum policy, they should have been pleased with some of the adjustments that we agreed with each other at the time in order to make that asylum policy more stringent. That has nothing to do with the fact that I wouldn't be constitutional. Absolutely not, far from it. I just think that it is not sufficiently substantiated by the cabinet why, if there is a problem at a mosque and financing from abroad, we would not be able to limit funding in that case. Because, yes, there is constitutional freedom, but it does stop when you take advantage of it to affect other people's freedom. You can narrow it down. That is also what the Council of State says: if proportionate, if targeted. That's what I want to look for. I would like to call on Mr Azarkan to finish this long answer, so that we do not look all the time for gaps in the report, its preparation and proposals that we have seriously put forward to tackle this problem, while the DENK election programme does not mention this undesirable foreign influence, which is, in the end, very damaging to the Muslim community in the Netherlands. Why don't you help me defend that we're up against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	What is harmful to the Islamic community in the Netherlands are parties such as the VVD, which is developing more and more PVV-like proposals. That's harmful. Because do you know what this is all about? The Council of State has indicated three things that are problematic. You mentioned two. The Council of State has said: problematic behaviour is a relative term that you can discuss with each other. If the police are attacked in Urk night after night, people may find that problematic. When you go to Duindorp, on New Year's Eve, to celebrate with a DJ and then call it a demonstration, there are people in the care who find that problematic. It's a definition. The Council of State says it must be foreseeable. That's an important term. This means that you must be able to rely on it as a citizen: this is problematic, with which it is punishable or at least something I am not allowed to do. But mentioning the term and not working it out then offers room for selectivity. You know that, because you know that the Council of State has submitted that opinion to the Cabinet. The cabinet can't do anything with that. And then you say, as I read, I'll look with my friends from the Christian Union and then we'll hang out to find a majority. Then we get something like unsedated halal slaughter: then the First Chamber says that that affects the freedoms of Muslims. Don't come to me, I tell Mrs Becker, that you stand up for the rights of Muslims, because they don't interest you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	The latter is far from my point of view. I would really like Mr Azarkan to stand up for the freedoms of all the Muslims who are benevolent, and therefore want to fight against these kinds of influences. But I very much wonder whether Mr Azarkan has actually read the cabinet letter. Because the cabinet itself makes it very clear that a legal definition of problematic behaviour will be added to the definitions that we already have of extremism and terror. Because those two definitions are not enough to cover the whole grey area, which the committee also sketches, in which it already goes wrong, in which imams in the Netherlands think that they should be able to educate students with the idea that men and women should not shake hands with each other, that as a girl, you shouldn't go down the street without a mentor, that you wouldn't have all kinds of rights, that inequality is something to pursue, that participating in free Dutch society is not a good idea for you. That is not a fundamental right of Muslims that I want to defend here, and I hope that Mr Azarkan does not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	I almost memorized the cabinet response. I thought it was really amazing that it said: problematic behavior is behavior that does happen within the law. I think people in this country have the right to be orthodox. We have an SGP here that believes that women do not have the right to vote. There are 35 men on the list. You might find that problematic, but it's the law. The foreman of the SGP signed the Nashville Declaration. A lot of gay organisations in the Netherlands hate that. Somebody even filed a report. That's a valued partner of the VVD. It is a strange definition when you say: the behavior is within the law, but we're still going to see how we can handle it. Then you'll have to put it outside the law, so you'll have to criminalize it. For terrorism and so on, we already have an approach. The cabinet says that this is being continued and that it is very effective in some respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	Before I give Mrs Becker the floor, I suspect that Mr Bishop wants to make a personal statement. So I'm giving him a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	Whether it should be a point of order or a personal fact, I leave it to the President. Let me say that I do not think it is right for a colleague to speak at a time when you are not speaking, to address you, or in this case to address the SGP to use the SGP as a lightning rod for a point on which he himself is addressed or on which he addresses the speaker. I don't think that's fancy, and I think we should declare that out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	As chairman, I'm not going to declare anything out of order. I think that in a technical sense this is more of a personal fact than a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr President, I note that this is the case. There are 35 men on the list at the SGP. Mr. Van der Staaij signed the Nashville Declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	You've both made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	It's just a fact!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	I am now going to give Mrs Becker the floor to respond to your comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yeah, because we didn't just ask for this report with each other. That's not gonna fall out of the sky. That is not because there has been an incident somewhere once, but because there is a systematic influence from abroad to enter the minds and hearts of people in the Dutch Muslim communities. You've got to have the guts to name that. Does that mean that you're dealing with Muslim bashing or that you're only dealing with Muslims? No, because even if constitutional freedoms are being abused in another way, for example when schools ask for an anti-gay statement because they say 'that's Article 23', then we are here too. Then we say: no, there is indeed freedom of education, but it stops when there is discrimination. So this has nothing to do with dealing with one group. This has to do with defending freedom in a broad sense. It is a pity that DENK refuses to do so and that this problematic behavior is constantly being defended, because Mr Azarkan says: you can be orthodox in the Netherlands. I'm about to mention some of the things in the report. I hope he doesn't support all of that. I refer to the idea that anti-Western propaganda is being pumped into the heads of people who simply have to participate in society here in the Netherlands and the fact that some young children from 5 to 12 years of age receive 14 hours a week of Salafist education with all kinds of ideas which make them feel that the free Netherlands does not exist for them. I hope that Mr Azarkan will discuss this with us today. Or is his message: you can be orthodox; this report shouldn't have been there, because there is no problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	I will give you the floor one more time, but I would like to make one more point. In itself, it is important that we have a good debate here, but it will be very late tonight if we also challenge the interruptions from the seat of the speaker. I shall now be the last to speak on this point. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	That was a justified remark by Mrs Becker about influence and also about the extent to which this leads to radicalisation, to demonstrable offences and to the fact that there are also salafistic drivers who sometimes allow our young children to travel to IS. I've been up close. I even set up an organization to support parents. That's what I care about. So don't come to me with: Mr. Azarkan, you close your eyes. I don't close my eyes to anything; I see what's happening. What I also see is that RAND's research is a complicated investigation. It's a complicated theme. In fact, in 2013-2015 the cabinet indicated that this is such a complex theme that it is not easy to grab it. RAND has researched this and has concluded that it is not one-to-one to say that financing from abroad leads to unwanted influence and that that unwanted influence is also punishable. It is therefore a good thing that we take a clear look at where this is taking place and what measures should be taken within the democratic rule of law to resolve this problem. That's what I'm looking at. But with long hauls, quickly at home, as I read in the newspaper "Come on, we're just going to ban mosques funding" you grab 500 mosques and you say to all Muslims in the Netherlands: so, we fixed this; you're back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	We're threatening to get a little closer now, because that's not in the paper. The newspaper says that we want to be able to impose a targeted ban on mosques where this behaviour occurs and where this undermining of democratic order, the rule of law and human rights is taking place. I want to fight that. I agree immediately with Mr Azarkan that funding does not always mean that there is an influenceal purpose behind it. That's what the committee report says. However, the parliamentary committee of inquiry of all parties in this house, with the exception of the PVV, has found that in many cases it determines who pays. There's a whole chapter dedicated to that. I would advise Mr Azarkan to take that up again, because, in the end, tackling the sources of funding in that grey area can prevent the things that Mr Azarkan thinks we should not want from being made possible. That's not: long haul, quick home. This must be done carefully in legislation. But if there is an initial opinion from the Council of State, we should not say that we are not doing anything if we cannot. Then we have to see how it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	"We're getting closer" was said. I am thinking of the comments and the proposals which are not constitutional. Because the VVD wanted to take the ground from the As-Soennah mosque. He just wanted to confiscate the ground of a mosque. The VVD wanted to ban a mosque in Enschede. Rutte has said that the Islamic message is terrible jingle, but it is the fundamental right to call for prayer. Mrs Bente Becker says that the VVD also stands for the fundamental rights of Muslims, but it does not; yes, it does at the time when it comes to your words to some extent. After all, you also want to ban funding. You know as well as I do that there are all kinds of instruments at the moment. This does not require any additional legislation. At the time it's demonstrably about terrorism or about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yes. If it's about other things, it's possible. The additions you wish to make are purely for the stage. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	There are fundamental rights, but they are not absolute. That is actually my most important message here today. In the committee's report it is quite clear that the imam who appeared before the committee said at one point: we have the fundamental right of self-determination; that means that as a woman you do not have to shake hands with a man, so I recommend that girls should never shake hands with a boy. Then he was asked about the right to self-determination if a girl herself can decide who she marries. But no, I couldn't, because that's what the father was about. It's not an à la carte. If you want to make use of the freedoms here, this means that you must also respect the freedoms of others. There are many Muslims who do so, but unfortunately there is a hard core, whether or not influenced from abroad, that does not do so. We need to take action against that. I hope that we can take steps in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	Totally. We need to stop this unwanted influence. Mrs Becker and I have also worked well together, for example when it comes to monitoring weekend schools. Mortal influences from abroad must be stopped. The only question is how to do that legally as legally as possible. I shall then turn to Mr Azarkan. Is it not wise to say that we are against all unwanted influence from abroad, whether it comes from Saudi Arabia or from the United States? I don't care. If Nashville influences here at churches that homosexuals are inferior to heterosexuals or women to men, we both find that unacceptable. Shouldn't you just say stop funding religious organisations abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think we're pretty much on the same page. You can't say: just stop all funding from abroad from religious organizations. That has once been investigated in the previous cabinet period. It was not possible, because this is not directed enough to undermine the constitutional freedom of religion. If the Council of State says that it is very difficult to come up with a general ban on the funding of mosques from non-free countries, because that is not yet targeted enough, then I would like to see if there is no other route that starts at the mosque or at the social organisation. Because it could be another organization. That's what I'm trying to do. Minister Dekker has a bill requiring these organisations to be transparent about where the funds come from. At the same time, if we see that this problematic, undermining behavior is happening around an organisation, then we should actually have enforcement tools, no matter where that money comes from, in order to recover, forfeit that money or otherwise eliminate that flow of funding. So I think we're gonna find each other in that today, hopefully, to take steps in that and start investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	That could be very good. It does seem to me to be the most important thing that we take steps, rather than mosquitoing about details and then doing nothing. But then Mrs. Becker must be very precise. Is it no longer about the countries of origin, but about the organisations where problematic behaviour takes place? Can she explain that very precisely so that we can take steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	Yes, as far as I am concerned, that should be the basis: what happens to such an organisation and is this in line with problematic behaviour, such as the cabinet that will legally define it? However, I will come to that in my speech, but I do not want to completely abandon the idea that it may be relevant to check whether the source is also an unfree source. I have also read that the cabinet says: it is complicated to create an unfree country list. But I would imagine that you have a few factors to check whether this source is unfree and whether it has certain elements in it that could pose an additional risk to influence here. That might be relevant, I think, but we should have that figured out in order to get the foundation solid. The point is that it is really targeted and that there really is a legitimate presumption of unwanted influence. I don't need this one-on-one: if that law can do without this list or without such an indication, so can I. But such an index may also be useful in other areas. There has also been a whole debate here in this Chamber about anbistatus: about organisations with an undesirable agenda from abroad who received the anbistatus. At that time, many Members of Parliament said: let us not make them possible once they are gifts from non-free countries. At that time, however, the fact that we do not actually have indicators for what an unfree country is. So I would like to try again today to ask the cabinet to ensure that these indicators are put in place. But it's not a condition for me to get a law like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	In conclusion, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	It is precisely because of the fact that the definition of an "unfree country" is very difficult that it would be my idea simply not to finance from abroad to organisations in the Netherlands where problematic behavior can take place. Then I'll let it happen in the broadest sense. I see, for example, that the cabinet also excludes the whole of the European Union. I find that strange, because someone from Saudi Arabia can of course also transfer money to Romania. Then that money ends up here in the Netherlands. Isn't that what Mrs. Becker wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	But I do want to say, yes, I do not want to, of course, that we can prove that there is actually such behaviour. I hope I understand Mr Van Dijk correctly, but we should not go back to what we did in a previous cabinet period... Halbe Zijlstra and Emile Roemer have once tabled a motion together in this area: ban all funding from abroad from this type of organisation. We've been looking into that, but we can't. You really need to be able to demonstrate that there is problematic behavior in order to focus on the fact that there is a real problem, so that you can reduce that constitutional freedom to receive that money a little bit. For my part, I have heard the Council of State say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mrs Becker continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	I was telling about the effect that we see in practice of the unwanted foreign influence. I mentioned a number of examples, such as visitors to the Al-Fourqaan mosque, who were suspected of terrorist activity. But the report also talks about children who at some point are anxious not to follow Al Fitra's teachings. We read about intimidation of girls who go out without a chaperone when they shouldn't, like on a school trip or another outing. There they should be accompanied by a male companion. It is about women who feel encouraged and intimidated to go beyond the hidjab and even to wear a nikab. Then we have the 148 mosques of Diyanet. According to one of the professors who spoke during the interrogations, Diyanet is the multinational of Islam, a strong official organisation that tries to control the Muslim community with a Turkish background in the Netherlands. This organisation does not shy away from giving Dutch people a specific voting advice for Erdogan or to collect information about possible Gülensympathisers. The committee calls the image urgent, but I think that's another understatement. As a free, democratic society, we must dare to use democracy not only as a weapon of freedom, but also as a weapon of freedom, by taking bold steps through legislation and regulation. It is good that Minister Dekker wants mosques and other civil society organisations to be transparent about foreign donations, and that he has adapted Article 2:20 of the Civil Code so that extremist organisations can be dissolved more quickly. It is also a good thing that Minister Koolmees set up a task force to work with municipalities against problematic behavior, although we still have a few questions about whether this task force can go ahead at the moment. We are also pleased that Minister Blok wants to counter political influence and the purchase of loyalty for foreign elections with the 'no, unless' arrangement according to German example, but we are still curious when it can finally come to the Chamber, and how. Mr. Chairman. These are positive developments, but fair is fair: it is far from enough. We've been talking for so long. And unfortunately, the government's reaction to too many points is hesitant. In areas where real intervention is needed, such as at weekend schools, the possibility of banning mosque funding and tackling hate images and expressions on the Internet, the parliamentary committee outlines possible solutions, but explains to the Cabinet why constitutional freedoms would stand in the way of solutions. But I told you, we have to be prepared to restrict freedoms sometimes. Freedom of religion is not intended for an unfree and undermining agenda. The same applies to freedom of association or education. It is not there to teach children that democracy is nothing or that man and woman are unequal. If you take advantage of our freedoms, they no longer count for you. I am convinced that this can, legally speaking, be targeted and proportionate, provided that it is in the public interest. If it is in the public interest, it is our free and safe way of life. Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, I am making ten concrete proposals on behalf of the VVD for what we can and must do quickly. I hope that the cabinet is prepared to take over and that other parties will join us. First of all... We were just talking about it: come up with legislation quickly to focus mosque financing on limiting problematic behavior. Two cabinet periods ago this has already been investigated and we started. This cabinet period we discussed a different direction and looked at whether it could be more targeted, from non-free countries, if it could not be done in general. The result is still lean. Minister Koolmees has explored the arrangements. At the end of this cabinet period he came up with a letter explaining that legislation is difficult. But that can't and shouldn't be the last answer, can it? I do not understand why the Minister did not look at an alternative, such as a targeted ban, which could intervene in funding if we see undermining the rule of law, democratic values or human rights violations. As I said earlier, the VVD, together with the Christian Union, but also with other parties, will come up with own-initiative legislation if necessary. We are thinking of enforcement instruments that can freeze the receipt of financial resources, which can prevent organisations from receiving these funds or declaring them forfeit in the event of problematic behaviour. Is the cabinet prepared to make the legislation on the initiative that we are talking about unnecessary and soon to send legislation to the Chamber itself? Second. I would still like to call on the Cabinet to consider whether it is possible to create an unfree country index. If a list can't be made, can't we create an index? Not only Turkey, but also the Gulf States are currently being approached by the cabinet mainly through dialogue. This kind of country is asked to give us insight into payments to mosques or in teaching programs at a weekend school in our own country. We are actually dependent on Turkey's goodwill to tell us what is being told in Dutch weekend schools. The cabinet does not want to make an unfree list of countries, but it helps precisely if we can objectively establish that a particular country has an unfree agenda if we then want to do something about funding from such a country. Then you're focused and well-founded, as the Council of State demands. By taking into account the democratic score of a country from which influence comes, you can also say convincingly no to funding. But even before that, it can play a role in effective risk-based supervision and it offers the opportunity to intervene in other policy areas, for example in determining whether an anbi status is still justified. I am considering a motion to have such an unfree country index made, but of course I would like to receive a response first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u54	That's the term "unfree countries." It's a rather complicated task to create such an index. We have been given the example of the Freedom House in America that is paid by the American government. I believe that there is a President there right now who is setting up his own supporters against democracy. Whether that's the model of democracy, I don't know. My question is this. What is the definition of non-free countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u55	I have read well that the cabinet indicates that making a list of non-free countries is complicated, so a list you are going to put on: we are very rigid for the next three or four years which countries are not free and which countries are not. I would like some sort of index with criteria, so that if you see that there is influence from a particular country and there is problematic behaviour, you can score that country on the basis of those criteria and you can see that there may be a very wrong agenda behind it. I ask the Cabinet to draw up these criteria. This may have to do with reciprocity, for example if such a country does not allow it to finance a church there and it wants to finance a mosque here. It may be about freedom of the press or about scoring the democratic content. You can ask me what I think is an unfree country, but that's not how it works. I can mention a lot of them, but the point is that there are objective criteria in such an index. I would very much like to have it, so that we can get even more focused on saying: we have a case here where we see problematic behavior with a source of funding from a country that scores very high on certain non-free indicators. Then you have a very well-founded case to be able to restrict and therefore rightly say: we are not attacking the Constitution here, we have done it in a very targeted and well-founded way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u56	And that's what you want to do about mosques financing? That's what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u58	Look, we send the mayor of Rotterdam with a whole delegation of companies to such an unfree country and we ask such an unfree country to please invest a few hundred million in the port of Rotterdam. That's economics. Of that you could say: what exactly do we import? We're sending our royal house to visit us to spawn the royal house there. We sell hundreds of billions of euros of weapons to non-free countries where they then do things that are not right. I think it's a bit double-size when you say that if they deliver a few dimes so that here a mosque is paid from the zakat "that's the Islamic way to make a donation that you don't ask back for this is problematic, while we know that the Gulf states here in the Netherlands are buying billions of euros of real estate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u59	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u60	None of that's a problem, all those billions. We want them to come here, but when it comes to financing mosques, they're unfree and then we have to keep them away. I think that's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u61	No, because it certainly isn't about a few dimes, as the report shows. There are millions of people involved, and they are very clear: who pays, decides. To be honest, I think it is good that if the Netherlands is at trade talks in one of these countries, this will also open the door to discussing a possible non-free agenda and influence in the Netherlands. I also welcome the fact that the cabinet has written down: with regard to Saudi Arabia, we now have a very proactive agenda to engage in dialogue with that country. So that's absolutely not hypocritical. We have to do it this way, and at the same time we have to ensure that if we see problematic behaviour in the Netherlands and that it comes from a country with a lot of non-free elements, we can curb that behaviour. This applies not only to mosques but also to other organisations. And I just said it: even in the case of tax regulations, such as an anbi-status where you are treated fiscally favourably by the government when you are perhaps working on a very wrong agenda, we need to be able to deal with that. So very broad, step by step. I hope that Mr Azarkan will look at it in a more positive way, so that we can defend freedom together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u62	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u64	Your next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yes, my next point, point three. Make a serious counter-strategy on diaspora politics. With a broadly adopted motion, I called on Minister Koolmees to come up with a counter-strategy on Turkish diaspora policy more than a year ago. I believe that, with the exception of DENK, the entire Chamber has supported this motion. Unfortunately, the implementation does not go beyond appealing to the country if necessary. An ultra-nationalist organisation such as the Grey Wolves can go ahead for the time being, sometimes even receives indirect subsidies. And there are now nine Turkish weekend schools in our country, funded by Erdogan. Is the Minister prepared to strengthen that counter-strategy towards Turkey, to move quickly on my motion to see if an organisation like the Grey Wolves can be banned, and whether subsidies that hinder integration, whether through municipalities or not, can be stopped? I once tabled a motion, together with Mr Segers of the Christian Union, that Minister Koolmees should table with the VNG in order to ensure that municipalities no longer provide subsidies that actually hinder integration. Has that motion even been carried out? Is that what happened? Did that conversation with the VNG take place? Is this what they're gonna do? Is the Minister not prepared to have diaspora organisations come to the Ministry as an interlocutor anymore? And can we, for example, ask the Foreign Minister, expect legislation to subject the arrival of foreign politicians for campaigns here just before the elections to a no-unless principle? Here too, I have own-initiative legislation in preparation, but I do not think it is necessary because the cabinet itself is taking action. Point four. Take hate images seriously, because influence takes place not only through money, but also through unbearable imams. Sometimes even behind closed windows they tell their message to the listeners in mosques or weekend schools. This weekend, we saw that the judge destroyed the restraining order against Imam Fawaz Jneid. It would be terribly damaging, the VVD believes, if his toxic messages could now simply be spread again in the vulnerable neighbourhoods of The Hague. Does the cabinet appeal? I hope so. What about the execution of my motion that my party, together with the Labour Party, has ever filed in order to impose a digital ban on imams? And what about the implementation of Mr Yeşilgöz's motion to encourage Member States to refrain from issuing visas to hate preachers in the SIS II system? What does the cabinet do wider against the arrival of many imams from abroad? I know that the cabinet has been in consultation for years to get Dutch imam education off the ground in higher education, but you can actually see that there is not enough interest in that and that imams continue to come from abroad. I suspect that is also because we continue to grant employment permits for this. So the VVD would like the creation of a Dutch imam training programme to be accompanied by a reasonable transition period, after which we will no longer grant employment permits for the imams outside the EU, because there is sufficient supply within the EU. As far as the VVD is concerned, it would also be something to discuss with other EU Member States. I'd like a response. Five. Informal education must be supervised as far as the VVD is concerned, because undesirable influence is most serious if it is directed towards our children. On weekend and Koran schools, the AIVD says, children are threatened with indoctrination. Now the cabinet writes about the freedom of private education, but let us focus more on the freedom of the children, both by giving the inspection opportunities to assess educational material as well as by conducting risk-oriented supervision in the classroom and on teachers and administrators. I have held a motion with the PvdA on this, but the cabinet has actually shown the same reflex again, namely explaining why it could not be constitutionally. Even targeted and risk-oriented supervision, the cabinet doesn't want it. Has the cabinet asked the Council of State for advice on this, for example, on a number of constitutional lawyers? Because I really want to see a better foundation and then preferably how to make it possible. Again, we are prepared to take the initiative ourselves with the Labour Party, hopefully many other parties, perhaps D66, but it would be so much more powerful if Minister Koolmees could promise us that the cabinet will work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u66	I have also read those letters and those reactions, but we have, of course, now rewritten the World Health Organisation, which also rewritten its whole definition of child abuse in 1990. Basically, our entire international community says that if you do not emotionally prepare a child for a future that way, then there is child abuse. So shouldn't we get away from the idea that we should monitor it or that it violates fundamental rights? Do we not now have the Treaty obligation on ourselves to combat child abuse, which is de facto referred to here? So I am asking you very specifically: should we not get away from this discussion about supervision and whether it is all right and whether it is freedom of education and finally take action against this child abuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think this is a very interesting point of view, because I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg on the substance. If you're reading what those kids are going through, that's child abuse. I just think it becomes complicated to say in general terms that the fact that a child goes to an Islamic weekend school or a Koran school is already child abuse. I think we will have to prove that what is happening there is covered by that definition. Then you need supervision: insight into teaching material, insight into what is happening there. The explanation 'this is not the domain of the government, because private education is free', while we are saying exactly what Mrs Van Toorenburg is actually saying that in some cases there is child abuse... Let us also use that legal definition if that helps. We want to put an end to this. I honestly believe that this will not be possible without supervision, but if Mrs Van Toorenburg has a creative idea of restricting it without supervision, I am also open to it. I just hope that we can take a different step here than the cabinet is doing now, saying that it is all free now and that we cannot do so much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you for this positive response, because I do think we should finally tap out of another vessel. For too long we have been working on fundamental rights and the freedom and supervision of education, while in the Netherlands we simply have a supervisor on child abuse. We have all kinds of guesses, we have youth care. I think we should try to look at it from that side. If there are such signals from the AIVD and from the municipalities, when mayors sound the alarm, when teachers say that children come back with texts from such a weekend school that they really think "these children are not prepared for our society; in fact, they are destroyed before they can get started," we have to say: stop here. That's what we have to do. So it's child abuse. It is no longer the freedom of education or the freedom to share a religion with children. It's pure child abuse, and we have to act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u69	I have not heard so much a question, but, as I have said, I find this an interesting point of view to be included. I hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg does not mean that she wants to leave the whole path of supervision, because I think it can reinforce each other. Whether that should be an educational inspection or the municipalities or the Council for the Protection of Children, I would be happy to discuss this. If you only do this with some kind of beeping system when the AIVD thinks 'there's so much going on here', I ask Mrs Van Toorenburg who then has to raise his finger at some point and say that it is child abuse, if the private school has no duty to provide insight into teaching material or allow a supervisor to do so. I still think we'll both need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u70	We're really making a fundamental mistake here. We need to stop thinking that it needs to be supervised. The cabinet has rightly indicated that if you put a supervisory model on it, you actually set up some kind of structure that you partly agree with and that you look at it. We don't have to go down that road. It's not normal in a lot of schools. Of course it's fine when people learn the language. You don't hear the teachers complaining about that either. But if we see children being abused, we shouldn't sit back and see which supervisor we have for that. That's what we're talking about. I'm really afraid we'll paralyze ourselves longer if we put it past the supervisor's bar and informal education. We just have to say to each other: we see something else. That's what the World Health Organisation says. This is emotional child abuse because you do not prepare children for a future in a country. Once we've established that with each other, you're gonna have to put it past that bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u71	Yes, but my point was: when did we establish this with each other? It's been investigated. The Cabinet has asked Radar Advisor to investigate. They have conducted surveys and asked people if there is this undermining behavior. There has been very little reaction to this and little insight has been given. In fact, the report concluded that there is not enough insight to justify the structural problems involved. Exactly that "insufficient insight" I would like to break. I immediately endorse the idea that this could also be child abuse and that that would be a good route. Let me propose to Mrs Van Toorenburg that we both present our ideas to the cabinet and see if we can take steps together. Because our goal is the same: to stop this kind of indoctrination and freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u72	I can imagine Mrs Becker's thinking very well. I also think that it raises a fundamental problem, but the question is within what frameworks and at what point in time this monitoring should take place. Mrs Becker says that a beeping system is not clear enough and does not provide enough support. It must be more of a generic measure. But when it comes to the freedom of parenting, you have to be careful, because where does it end? And should that also be dealt with when anti-democratic and anti-judicial ideas are transferred within the family? I would like a reflection from the speaker on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you to Mr Bishop for this question. I am not suggesting that every child in the Netherlands should be placed under enhanced supervision. But I do think that you can no longer simply refer to freedom after the signal that came from the AIVD, and which we have also read in the report, that there is now a structure of mosque schools and Koran schools that are really worrying and where really such things happen. You have to earn that freedom. I think the signals here are so serious that it is justified to monitor. We have done this as politics before, for example around the mosque interiors, which was also not supervised. There arose a pedagogical climate that was concerned about. Then my colleague, Mr Azmani, together with Mrs Yücel of the Labour Party, tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter and a law was passed so that there was an opportunity to enter. As far as I am concerned, are we going to set up the same structure as the primary education inspection, with every school periodically requesting everything? No, I'd like to have risk-oriented surveillance based on signals. We now have a task force of Minister Koolmees, we have mayors and we have administrators who see where there are concerns. They then have a title to go in, to ask for teaching material and to intervene if necessary. I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u74	However, I assume that Mrs Becker's view will then have to be explicitly framed in the drafting of the matter where there is scope to prevent any undesirable, unnecessary, intervention on constitutional freedoms, fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes, as far as the VVD is concerned, that should be linked to the signals that something isn't right. I do not know if this is the intention behind Mr Bishop's question, but of course you can also hear the concern in the more severely reformed Christian circles in the Netherlands: if we go to weekend schools, we might also come to Bible schools. We don't want that. But I think we shouldn't be so afraid of that, because if you have nothing to hide and if you're not trying to undermine democracy, affect human rights or indoctrinate children with anti-Western ideas, why wouldn't you just want to give insight into your teaching material if someone asks or if someone wants to get into your school sometime? I also say to Mr Bishop that if things were to happen in a Bible school that went very much against, for example, the right to be gay in the Netherlands, I do not mind that the finger is placed on the sore spot there. Because all children in the Netherlands, regardless of their faith, deserve to grow up in freedom. I hope that Mr Bishop will have the courage to go along with the fight to monitor this informal education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u76	I have one final question, to reassure Mrs Becker. I am asking these questions from a constitutional point of view. This is not yet the same as the motivation to safeguard the importance of catechistic education in the reformed churches, the reformed municipalities, but it is a matter of state law. I understand very well that this is not the background to your comments either. But that listens very closely. When it comes to informal education, it is also about, for example, tutoring schools. Mrs Becker should therefore want to provide a framework for this. And then I'm really worried that you're gonna have to rig up a huge device, you want to get that all under control. I see the point, but I don't quite see the solution yet. In that respect, I am a little bit on the side of the cabinet, so: wait a minute, before we get into this; let's think about that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u77	I don't mean to rig up an entire device. But we do not have any legislation in this area at the moment. If there's something really serious going on, a driver can't do enough. I've seen classes from B and W then say to a city council asking questions about that, this isn't the territory of the government, so I can't do anything else here. I want to put an end to that. So I would like to create an opportunity to intervene, not necessarily some kind of moloch in which every tutoring school can be invaded at any time of the day by an educational inspection that is going to request everything. That's not my intention. But on the other hand I've also heard stories, for example in the Schilderswijk, where in a garage box there is suddenly supposed to be tutoring, but where people in the neighborhood are worried about what really happens there. Then I would like there to be a title to say: informal education is taking place here; as a director, I would like to understand what is going on there, for the sake of those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mrs Becker continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u79	Sixth. Take timely and effective action with organisations that behave badly. Then I am talking about the task force that actually focuses on that, the task force's unwanted foreign influence and problematic behaviour. In fact, we think that this task force should be set up much more firmly and should be able to act. Firstly, the task force is not known to many municipalities. Also, the task force has no legal basis, no legal powers to really go ahead when a municipality rings the bell. And I would like to ask whether it is true that there is currently no enforcement request, for example by the task force and/or a municipality, that can be submitted to the Public Prosecutor in order to launch a possible route. I would also like to ask whether the legal definition of problematic behaviour is really sufficient to allow more enforcement. Is the Minister prepared to make a firmer legal but also practical commitment that it will become a task force with teeth? Seventh. Take the online salafism. Because we read that salafistic drivers are getting better and better at finding social media to spread their harmful messages. A large part of the online expressions about Islam are now in line with the salafistic ideas. That's very worrying, isn't it? I've often asked questions about certain expressions. There was no question of intervention as far as the cabinet was concerned. I'd like to ask how that's possible. Because then it is said: if there is criminal behaviour, then a criminal route can be discussed. But who's gonna watch that? And is there such a thing as problematic behavior online? Is there a definition and an approach? Will the task force extend its scope to the online world? Finally, does the Cabinet have conversations with big tech about online salafism? In that context, I would like to raise the question of whether there is any possibility of extending the authority's childpornographic and terrorist content with a definition of problematic behavior, so that Internet companies can be forced to do something against harmful salafistic content. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u80	I have a question about putting that problematic behavior in legal terms. Does Mrs Becker agree with me that harassment and death threats are included?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u81	No, we can deal with that criminally at the moment. What is problematic behavior is precisely what this committee has also put its finger on, namely the area before it. At the moment, we cannot intervene with the Code of Criminal Law, while we see something happening here that ultimately undermines our society in the longer term, as the AIVD says. Then it's about spreading unfree messages. Then it's about saying under the guise of freedom of education that girls have less rights than boys, for example. The report also states that imams at weekend schools say: what you hear about freedom and equality throughout the week in school is not true. You cannot intervene in criminal matters at the moment, but it is very problematic behaviour that we want to be able to intervene on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u82	So you're actually saying that harassment and death threats are much worse; they're already in the criminal. In the peasant protests we have seen that Farmers Defence Force... I don't know why they have a foreign name. Yes, Mr. Koolmees, I don't think that's very Dutch. You just call yourself the Boers Liberation Movement or something. I like that better. That's really Dutch. Anyway, Farmers Defence Force looks up our politicians at night at a time when they don't want to. This week they did the same thing to a well-known singer. That's pure harassment. They're driving around saying, "My mission is Clover in a kissie." That is not only problematic, but it is intimidating. And yet they can simply join the Minister when it comes to nitrogen policy. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u83	I believe that Mr Azarkan had registered for 100 minutes today. I see that he is using my speech to stretch that a little bit by bringing up a different subject every time than what this debate is about. This debate is about unwanted foreign influence in Dutch Muslim communities. That's what we're trying to come up with solutions for. We are trying to develop an approach to this. DENK constantly comes to the microphone and says: "Yes, but this and this problem in society? For there are also farmers who intimidate." That's bad, too. That's terrible, too. If a door of a county house is smashed in, then something has to be said about it. It is not just something that needs to be said, but something that needs to be done about it. Politicians should not be intimidated at home. We have to take action against that, too. But I challenge Mr Azarkan to stop talking about all these other terrible developments in society. Perhaps as DENK you can add one sentence to your own election program to do something about unwanted foreign influence. That wouldn't be too little attention, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u84	This is exactly the problem. This problem is limited to mosques. I also heard Mrs Becker say: perhaps, if Christian things happen that cannot stand the light of day, then... Mr President, you can see that caution. What I am trying to point out to Mrs Becker, through the chairman, is that a lot of Muslims feel that they are being selective about problematic behavior. They feel that people with an original Dutch background can never really show problematic behavior.They are exempt from this and that the rest of the Netherlands should always jump through a hoop. Tamar de Waal, who has been promoted there, also says this. Why is problematic behavior in width only specifically linked to mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u85	There is no mention of the latter at all. I would like to appeal to Mr Azarkan on his own responsibility towards the Muslim community. He accuses MPs of the VVD, but also of other parties, of Muslim bashing. If we want to tackle the excesses of what Islam shows with its ugliest face to a small hard core in the Netherlands, he will tell his supporters that we are doing Muslim bashing. I really hope that people will pierce through it, because that is sedition in society, and that is to strengthen the feeling in people that they are here in politics while we are fighting for the right of everyone to oppose them. We're not against them. We are in favour of Muslims who want to live here in freedom being able to do so. That is the battle we are facing today. Then don't throw oil on the fire all the time and don't turn people against each other. That's such a shame. This is undermining a feeling that we could all have here, namely that we are going to stand for freedom. I made that call ten times today. I'm afraid there's no point in Mr Azarkan, but I'll keep trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u86	Point seven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got ten points and I've got three minutes. So I'm gonna talk fast. We are indeed at point eight, because I had already mentioned online-salafism. That's what I asked my questions about. Eighth: increase European cooperation. France recently announced a firm package of measures to ban extremist organisations, to prevent certain imams and to combat home education under the guise of faith. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Netherlands should step up with France, but also with other benevolent countries, in order to tackle this problem seriously and to prevent unwanted influences from entering the Netherlands via a shortcut through another Member State. The Prime Minister has called for European action. The Netherlands has asked the European Commission for concrete measures. I would like to ask the cabinet: when is the European Commission coming up with this package? Can you give me a tip of the veil yet? Ninth, to tackle the soil. After all, one must also be aware of a breeding ground that makes young people sensitive to conservative messages. I once organized a special procedure in the Chamber on radicalisation and on how radicalisation occurs among young people who do not have opportunities, feel discriminated against or even went on the criminal path first and then think to wash away their sins by becoming very orthodox and still achieving a goal in the salafistic world. Especially when the living world of the street and the living world at home is hugely different and parents no longer have control over their children, radicalisation can occur. And we need to ensure equality of opportunity. The cabinet does so with further integration into the labour market and with tackling labour market discrimination. But the Minister also announced that he would come forward with a resilience agenda by 2020. That was in the budget. But we haven't seen anything yet. What can we expect? Why isn't there a little more haste here to at least deliver what has been promised? In addition, municipalities receive reinforcement funds for the prevention of radicalisation. That is also Minister Koolmees' portfolio. But yes, that is sometimes spent on a play or well-meaning activities in a community center. It has to be more evidence-based, this Chamber has also said. We spoke here as Chamber Beatrice de Graaf, who said: you should really just put national direction on it, because countering that radicalisation really has to be scientifically substantiated. What is the situation with regard to the execution of the Chamber's motion on this subject? Finally. My tenth point is that I would like to call on ourselves, but also on the cabinet, to support as much as possible the professions that are also victims of intolerance, while they are the people who must go in front of us in order to stand up for freedom. Think of cartoonists, journalists, teachers, but also politicians. This can be done not only with legislation, such as strengthening the citizenship mandate or making it easier to make a declaration, but also by standardising, by defending freedom in word and deed. In that sense, I would like to ask Minister Koolmees whether the role he said in a newspaper last weekend 'in the light of the integration debate' is wise, especially when it comes to this issue. Because of course there has to be room for nuance. We must respond to discrimination and stigmatisation; I do so in this Chamber. But we must also dare to name what is not going well when our freedom is at risk. If we do not stand as politicians on these issues, how can we expect that from society, from journalists, teachers, cartoonists? I would therefore like to end with the question: what is the message of the cabinet today to these brave people, who, despite the unwelcome influence, the glorification of freedom and the threat and intimidation associated with it, are going to stand up for that freedom? Is Minister Koolmees, since he has not yet sent it to the Chamber, prepared to allow the cabinet's agenda of resistance to be dealt with in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u89	Do you see it, Mr. Chairman? I had one second left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u90	Very good. That is the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u91	Shall I leave that second to Mrs. Becker before I ask her a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u92	No, I don't think that's necessary at all. You're just gonna ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u93	But perhaps she could have some extra speaking time. I like the list that Mrs Becker is presenting here. Many of the points she raises will certainly also be supported by my party. My question concerns what she has drawn attention to in the debates and what she has been talking about for a relatively long time. It concerns the issue of legislation that can prohibit funding at the time when there is an undesirable influence; let me sum it up in this way. The question I have is whether the problem in Mrs Becker's view is the lack of legislative capacity. Because when you read the letter from the cabinet, it actually says: some things are already punishable; we may be able to stop or forfeit money flows. All this can be done, if I understand correctly, within the existing rules. So the question is actually: do we need new legislation, or should we use the existing legislative instruments that we have much better? The latter was quite frankly my impression when I read the reaction of the cabinet to the examination of the parliamentary interrogation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u94	This is a fair question. I have read the report in this way, so I understand what the Cabinet is saying: we could still look at a more targeted approach, because we have examined whether a general ban on mosque financing from non-free countries is possible and we are getting signals from the Council of State that it would limit constitutional freedom too much. But I haven't read that forfeiture of problematic behavior is already possible. I understand that the cabinet wants to see if it can do so in the future, but that is not possible now. I say and call today, hopefully with as many parties as possible: let us then legislate so that there is a legal basis. We have a task force. It can now turn around and has a three-track approach. It starts with a good conversation and ends with: maybe we can use the Bibob Act and start disturbing it or, as Mr Azarkan says, don't issue a permit. Because we see that there's a lot of things wrong, but we don't have a legal title to intervene on that source. As far as I am concerned, this legal title must be given, but I understand that it is not there now. If there is and we do not use it, I agree with Mr Van Ojik immediately: let us do so. Through you, President, therefore, the question to the cabinet that Mr Van Ojik asks: if it is possible, then it is not necessary. But my impression is that it's still... I see Mr Koolmees breathing relieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u95	I do not yet know exactly what the answer to the question is from Mr Koolmees' body anguage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u96	Holistic, says Mr Koolmees. Legislation is, of course, never an end in itself, but on the basis of what I have now seen of the file and the documents of the cabinet, I believe that it would be necessary to do something about these financial flows. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u97	It is indeed very good to hear from the cabinet what is already possible and what cannot be done. The background to my question is also that I have the impression that we are not yet there by saying: if we know that there is problematic behavior, then we have to do this or this or this. One of the most striking things, both from the investigation and from the reaction of the cabinet, is that it actually shows that we know relatively little. The response to, for example, the research conducted by the WODC is extremely low. I have the idea that the problem is more like: how can we get it right? The cabinet says that there will be a law on transparency. But that just means that if we're gonna ask someone, he's gonna show us information. You have to know which of those 350,000 organizations and those 500 mosques in the Netherlands are going to ask you something. In my opinion, there is something missing from Mrs Becker's list: how do we know when, in a given situation, there is or is not a problem behavior, regardless of what the precise definition of problematic behavior is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u98	I am glad that Mr Van Ojik is asking that question, because with one of my proposals, namely on the operation of the task force, I went through my text a little faster to save a little time. The task force is currently the body of the national government that sits down with local directors when there is a development that is concerned about, but is often dependent on goodwill, on "Would you like to give insight?" Exactly what Mr Van Ojik says about the WODC study: then there is actually little response. I would ask you to lay down a firm legal basis there to stop being dependent on goodwill, but ultimately to have a legal basis to say: now I want you to provide that information, now I want you to open the door to that weekend school, because we are concerned and even if you do not want to, we have a title here in the law to do so. The law is certainly not the end in itself, but I believe that the very question of how can we deal with it? It has been helped with legislation. In practice, in the physical environment but also on the internet, that is a big question for me. The committee and the cabinet see problematic behavior there. Are we even active there? The task force doesn't. Shouldn't we be doing that? And if we think we should do that, will we need a legal basis for the task force? It is always the means to achieve the common goal, to explore legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u99	We're sitting about a month before the Chamber closes because of the election recess; we're hoping for elections in March. Today, Mrs Becker comes forward with no less than ten proposals, ten amendments, ten amendments to the cabinet letter in response to the Committee of Inquiry. That's pretty heavy. In itself it can be done fine, but I also see it as a bit of a licence of inability for the cabinet from Mrs Becker. What does she think of the timing of her ten proposals, as the cabinet is about to leave? Do you really think the cabinet will say to you today, "We're going to execute all ten of them?" Or shouldn't we just do that as a room ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u100	It's not a plea for or a sign of a license of inability. In fact, I have started my speech on a number of issues which I welcome the government's approach to. I also congratulate the members of the Chamber who have sat in this committee, who have drawn it to the Chamber and have said that we too, as a Chamber, must take this issue seriously. Well, we got this report this summer and today we're debating it. This is the time to use the report as a political party to make proposals to strengthen the policy of the cabinet, and that is what I am doing today. Some of my proposals are in line with the approach taken by the cabinet, but they are just tightening up. I have good hope that the cabinet is prepared to do so. I think they'll be able to pick that up for sure in the coming period. But as far as I am concerned, this is also a debate today: it is a parliamentary inquiry on which we, as political parties, can express our opinion today: as far as we are concerned, we may also have some courageous political choices that we have to make in order not to talk alone, but to do something. If we don't realize that this month, hopefully in the next period. But the more we can come to an agreement now, the more likely we will finally succeed in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mrs Becker rightly refers to the Zijlstra/Roemer motion, which I think has already been tabled five or six years ago. The reaction agreement of this cabinet states that foreign funding will be dealt with. None of this has happened. Now we are in the wake of this cabinet, it is really only the question of how long they are still there, it could be over, and then Mrs Becker says: the cabinet must now get to work. They're way too late, aren't they? As listeners to your speech, there's nothing else we can say about that. In your own speech, you say: Cabinet, you have been sleeping and I, Mrs Becker, have to make ten proposals today to get to work. But you're way too late, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u102	No, because my speech today is to move faster on to something that had to be investigated first. You are pretending that what I am proposing today is the same as the Zijlstra/Roemer motion. That's not true. We've come a long way. We have tried to ban foreign financing in the general sense. That was not possible in the previous period. The previous Minister for Social Affairs has examined this and said that this cannot be done. In this cabinet period we said: let us then ban funding from non-free countries. That has been investigated by this cabinet and, yes, I am frustrated by the fact that it has lasted three years. I don't know if that couldn't have happened sooner, but as far as I'm concerned, it should have been quicker. Anyway, it's there now, and the cabinet says that's not possible. But it is not as if the cabinet has not done anything about this issue. We have a bill to make this funding transparent, we have had a bill to amend Article 2:20 of the Civil Code, there has been extra money for a financial centre of expertise, we see in the letter a lot of measures that the Cabinet does take. Is that enough? No, and that is why I am standing here today calling on the cabinet and all of us really after the words we have been talking about for a very long time and always taking a small step forward in what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u103	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u104	Then I'd like to make a final attempt at approximation. Because I agree with Mrs Becker that we need to see how we can stop problematic behavior, especially if it comes from financing from abroad. Still my question is why you should only ban it from non-free countries. Because if that funding comes from the United States and it leads to unwanted behaviour, to undermining our democracy, then we find it equally undesirable. Shouldn't we urge the Cabinet or the Chamber to get to work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u105	In short, I think that my request to the cabinet to look more closely at problematic behaviour in an organisation, because then you can tackle the source of funding, meets Mr Jasper van Dijk's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u106	I understand Mr Van Dijk's question. You were waving a pile of motions on the same subject an hour ago. But then there's another technical question. I have heard ten proposals which we may have to put under the heading 'better late than never'. But I'm also a little into the definition grinder. Because if you don't address the core, of course you're gonna deal with the distractions. But how is Mrs Becker going to do that financially? I have not yet heard paragraph 11, the financial paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u107	A whole part of the proposals I am making are about creating a legal basis and legal powers for organisations that are already there, which already have financial resources to actually get through and not just to keep up with conversation and to see how it can be bothered. I actually want to make sure that we can use the money we already have more effectively by using the law in our hands to intervene if necessary. I have also seen in the cabinet letter that extra money is added on a number of subjects. For example, I mentioned all the additional resources for the Financial Expertise Centre in order to be able to detect more on those sources. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u108	Okay, part of it might be covered, but a whole lot of it isn't. Of course, the largest part is still not covered and that is the influx of 400 to 500 VVD-asielmigranates per week who still enter the Netherlands, sponsored by the VVD. That's the biggest cost. They cost us billions a year. The COA is a VVD institute, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers. That's a VVD organ. That costs billions a year. That's the biggest cost. The solution is not yet fully covered, but the source is not covered at all. So where does the VVD get all that money? Or is it going to be a free SP solution again? Then I don't know where I stand at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u109	I do not think I have made a proposal which Mr De Graaf can now say lacks coverage. I didn't call the cabinet here on any subject of any kind for more money. The PVV is talking about the real solution here. I have read in the election programme what the PVV means by that: total de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands, sending all Syrians back at once, regardless of whether the Foreign Office says that country is really safe. Then you are so no longer serious in your own solutions that I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u110	That's good. You've already completed your contribution, so you can sit down again. There's gonna be a quick cleanup. In a moment Mr De Graaf will speak on behalf of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u111	Everything's spic and span again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I told you, we're getting a little into the definition grinder. Of course, we saw that in the interrupting debates we had just had. I myself have talked about the essence of the problem, and that is Islam itself, because the only anti-legal or unjust state that is being discussed in the Chamber today is Islam itself. Let me therefore begin my contribution with a small piece of history, with a number of motions. We are talking about the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on undesirable influence from so-called non-free countries. Are they unfree countries? What's the definition of that? Here we go: definition diarrhea. That's why there's a few motions that touch that. "Doesn't ask the government to allow halalbanken" from 2018: no support from others. "Asks the government to take more action against hawala banking and Islamic banking" "That's actually the same as what I just said in 2019: only Forum and the SGP supported it. "Asks the government not to allow universities to sponsor chairs by countries that are members of the organisation of Islamic co-operatives" from 2019: only support from Forum. "Requests the government to dismantle Diyanet." We've just seen in the report what kind of problem Diyanet is. "Requests the government to prohibit foreign funding of mosques' from 2013: SGP support only. "Asks the government to take away the anbistatus of mosques." It has been submitted several times, recently by my colleague Mulder. "Asks the government to investigate deeply the network, interests and influences of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands." At first I had 72 seats in support of that, but when the new cabinet took office, when I re-submitted the motion, it suddenly evaporated, except for the SGP, Forum and 50PLUS. Where were those seats all of a sudden for the same motion? "Asks the government to ward off radical preachers." We have tabled several motions on preachers, such as the state-dangering El-Alami Amaouch, but we found hardly any support here. "Asks the government to close the Al-Fourqaan mosque and the affiliated foundation Al-Waqf in Eindhoven." It's been a hundred times for that. "Asks the government to close salafistic mosques." "Asks the government to do deep research into the Muslim Brotherhood." I just said it's been filed several times. "Does the government ask travellers but never to allow the IS caliphate on Dutch soil again" because on return that is also an influence. "Asks the government to make de-Islamicisation a spearhead of policy." See our election program; we have no choice. "Asks the government to acknowledge Islam for what it is." This brings us to the heart of the problem, namely a violent totalitarian ideology full of Jew hatred, misogynistic hatred, lhbt hatred, hatred of anyone who is not Islamic, full of jihad and focused on the subject of non-Islamic societies. That motion was not supported by other parties. That was actually one big Nashville statement. "Asks the government to dissolve Turkish Islamist organisations and strictly control money flows from Turkey": no support. "Don't ask the government to allow asylum seekers from Islamic countries anymore." "Asks the government not to allow immigration from Islamic countries anymore." This therefore concerns asylum and immigration. If you are wondering why I am also talking about the impact of immigration and asylum, then the answer is quite logical. Because the drivers of Islamization in the Netherlands also apply, of course, as with marketing: mass is cash register. It is not pleasant if imam or driver, if you have finally managed to build a mosque with the help of all your left-wing local and national politicians, that no one will come on Friday. That thing will have to be full of course, so the herd will be brought here. I smell an interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u112	That's right. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u113	I can assume that Mr De Graaf of the PVV has just read the report properly and that he was stuck to the tube with all the experts or creeps; both categories came to the Rog Committee. He must therefore have heard that this constant exclusion, precisely the hammering on 'you are no good' and precisely that nasty tone of the PVV, can make young people feel more encouraged to actually sit in that corner where we do not want them. Hasn't the PVV at any time even thought for itself: hm... maybe we make the breeding ground much worse for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u114	Of course, we have had this debate a number of times over the last few years - actually over the last 14 years. It is, of course, a total reversal of business. There are books, such as the Koran, the Hadith, the Sira, and we have Sharia as Islamic legislation: that is the real breeding ground. If you get it imprinted from childhood because you're already a Muslim in a Muslim family when you're born, that's the breeding ground. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg can say with pinched eyes: you are the rulers. No, we're not. We are the names and the builders. That is what is happening in this debate. You can say: because it is said that your religion or ideology is not right... Yes, this is a free country and that can be said. In our Western culture, we provide thick skin, an elephant skin, and may say what we want to each other, as long as we do not call for violence. At least that's what I think. To say 'this is a breeding ground for radicalisation' or something like that, I find nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u115	Okay, that's the conclusion of the PVV. Because of course there were experts who have explained how such systems work. The committee has also written that very clearly, and the cabinet has joined: if you constantly bang young people and tell them that they are not good, why would they ever show themselves on their good side? But that call will indeed be true after 14 years: for 14 years we have still had this debate on very dry, dry land.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u116	Yes, that is Mrs Van Toorenburg's conclusion. I just explained how it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u117	I hear Mr De Graaf say at the beginning: we are protecting the rule of law, we are the party to freedom. I always miss behind that: the party for freedom, except for Muslims. That's what we saw in the election program. You want to deport hundreds of thousands of Muslims, you want to take away women's headscarf, you actually want to close those mosques a long time ago, and you want to force Korans out of homes. Let me show you how it works: knock, knock, aufmachen, open up and come on with that Qur'an! We've had that discussion here, too. These are all proposals that go against some of our constitutions. I have often been here with Mr De Graaf's colleague, Mr Markuszower. He constantly calls out that the Minister of Justice is in charge of people who rape children and that he protects them. We have seen what Mr Wilders here calls our Parliament "a fake parliament." That is the erosion of our rule of law. We've seen Wilders here say, "Our OM is corrupt. Our judges are no good. Our judges are not independent and should actually be replaced."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u118	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u119	The PVV is the model of the erosion of the rule of law. How can you blame others for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u120	I'm sorry. I fell asleep a little while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u121	Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u122	Because if you're going to come up with Nazi equations, then as a parliamentarians you're actually just finished and then you don't deserve an answer. Is that what I'm supposed to do? Is it proper to give an answer after all? Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u123	I repeat my question: why does the PVV hate the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u124	Well, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Azarkan, no follow-up question? Then I look at Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u126	I think it was quite right that Mr De Graaf was asked to take a look in the mirror when he mentions that whole list of motions. What would parties think about the motions you're filing? What's your endgame? You are quite clear about this in abstract terms: de-Islamicisation. Mr Azarkan has just given an interpretation of what that might be. Actually, I think it's kind of vague. You write terms in the programme and you write about voluntary matters, but my question is as follows. Suppose a 25-year-old Muslim has a Qur'an at home, occasionally goes to the mosque and works with the police, what does the PVV program mean for such a person? Can you explain that very precisely?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u127	The PVV programme means that we give the whole of the Netherlands and everyone who is legally in the Netherlands a future in freedom. If you give someone a future in freedom, you have to make sure that ideologies that are very hard at trying to destroy that freedom are not getting any breeding ground in the Netherlands. Then you do have to close mosques. I don't think anyone who wants to live in freedom needs a mosque at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u128	I'm just trying to ask what that really means to that person. This means that the mosque is closed, but that someone else is allowed to be Muslim, to organize meetings at home and to do anything else. You're just closing the mosque. Is that what you're saying? For there is a country that is also de-Islamicizing; you are about to call upon some great rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr. Paternotte doesn't know that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u130	China, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u131	China isn't in my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u132	No. Can you explain exactly what you're going to do, apart from closing mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u133	In that case, I also wonder whether Mr Paternotte has been asleep in recent years. We have tabled all these motions and all these proposals, indeed on tackling Diyanet, tackling madrassas, tackling weekend schools, Koran schools, Syrian schools, child abuse and the like. Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned this earlier, but she did not support our motions on this issue. We talked about closing mosques. All these things we have appointed and brought forward here. We have talked about combating terrorism, because we know that those who sow Islam will eventually reap Sharia and terror. You've got to stop that from happening. I am also thinking of those people who may consider themselves culturally Muslim, are not religious at all but do not dare to do so because they are trapped in a strict Muslim community. I have seen that literally happen on the street in the Schilderswijk; not physically enclosed, but more morally, mentally and ideologically enclosed by someone with a beard and a djellaba, who speaks to them in a punitive tone with "where were you last Friday?" I know a lot of people who don't want to do that at all, who don't want Sharia at all and who may want to be a cultural Muslim at home or who may want to roll out a rug and bend over, but I think you should get the soil out of there. So you have to say: yes, we are going to de-islamize the Netherlands, we are going to close the mosques and we are going to make sure that it is precisely because of this that everyone and especially all those women can live in freedom in the Netherlands. That seems to me to be a very nice, idealistic objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u135	I ask the question a few times, and in answer to that question, all I get is closing mosques. There are hundreds of thousands of Muslims in the Netherlands. Many of them work in healthcare, in supermarkets, in the police, even in vital sectors. Maybe they're even overrepresented, as we've seen in the past year. Then I ask, what are you going to do with these people? The only thing you're saying is closing mosques. Then my question is as follows. Suppose on a Friday those people sit together in a mosque and that the PVV is in power, what exactly happens at that time? What exactly are you going to do at the time? Be clear and honest about that, because that has nothing to do with freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u136	We have always been clear and honest on this point. We want the mosques closed, so that a large part of the ground is removed under an ideology that deprives others of their freedom, an ideology that is very clear about subjecting non-Islamic societies to Islam through the introduction of Sharia-like laws and ultimately the total Sharia. Read these books, I would say to Mr Paternotte, because it is time he looked into them. Sharia is only about non-Muslims and how to deal with non-Muslims. And that's not so good. That is precisely what we want to avoid. That is for the benefit of your wife, of my daughters and of all the women in the Netherlands, even more so, of many Muslim women, of all Muslim women. Those are our allies in there. We stand up for them. We do not want the Netherlands to become an unfree country, just to stay in the politically correct definitions, and then the mosques will have to be closed first. I've given the answer three times now. If Mr Paternotte doesn't understand it now, I don't know either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u137	Really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u138	I really can't get an answer. This country was born because there was a lack of religious freedom. We wanted to, but a foreign ruler wouldn't let us. Afterwards this became a country of Catholics, Protestants, Jews, Muslims, Hindus and nowadays mostly unbelievers. Suppose on Friday a number of people sit together with the Qur'an to organize a prayer service. What exactly is the PVV going to do at the time? You say all the time: closing mosques! But if people sit together with a book to confess their religion in freedom, what are you going to do with those people at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u139	It is nice, by the way, that Mr Paternotte, at his own discretion, is cutting off a few hundred years from history. That's kind of nice. The Netherlands was suddenly a country of Muslims. When? In 1600 or 1700? No, I don't think so. That's a whole different story. What I'm saying is, if the PVV is in power, the mosques will be shut down. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr De Graaf continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u141	Since 2004, the time of the Wilders Group and later the Party for Freedom, more than 100, perhaps 200, motions have been tabled by the PVV to counter the Islamisation of our country. Pim Fortuyn already described the process of Islamization in his book against the Islamization of the Netherlands. My own party leader Geert Wilders wrote Choose Freedom. He also wrote Marked for Death. These are two books that are essential in the fight against the Islamisation of our once beautiful country. But they were not and were not the only ones who warned. No one was as specific as Wilders and Fortuyn, but over the last century there were multiple voices to prevent the Netherlands from being too full of influence from outside our country. I call Jan Marijnissen, for example. He said: I am proud that we have put this problem far ahead of Bolkestein, really far ahead of Bolkestein, on the agenda, but we have left, when we should have continued. And he referred to the pamphlet Gastwerk and Capital. I'm also talking about Abraham Kuyper, not unknown in CDA circles. He talked about the conquering momentum of "the Islam" and saw that the introduction of many Arabs into Tunis, for example, where he was then, made sure that hardly any Christian remained; talking about foreign influence. The first D66 minister we ever had in the Netherlands, Hans Gruijters... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u143	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u144	History in the case of the Wilders Group indeed dates back to 2004. Mr De Graaf also spoke about Pim Fortuyn. But it was Geert Wilders who thought that Pim Fortuyn was actually talking about Islam in a very bad and incorrect way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u145	Isn't that nice, the development that's been going on? Beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr De Graaf, Mr Azarkan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u147	I'm still here for my answer. I thought I was supposed to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u148	He's been in the Chamber for so long, but he doesn't know the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u149	No, Mr. Azarkan dropped a short break...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u150	No, Mr. Azarkan asked a question. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u151	It's never about interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u152	... which meant that I thought I could answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u153	Presumptions are never good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u155	It's happening. I've looked at it again on camera. Geert Wilders says, because he thinks that Pim Fortuyn is far too short, and because he thinks that it is a match for all Muslims, to contradict him: beware, Islam is a respectable religion; it is about 1.6 billion adherents and, of course, as in any religion, there is a part that is orthodox, that is extreme and abuses religion, but that does not say anything about that 95% to 98% of the benevolent Muslims. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr Wilders left the VVD in 2004 for a reason. He's seen this much better than others. Maybe he was allowed to say less at that time because of group discipline, but I was not there myself. I wasn't there myself. But at least Mr Wilders has had a very positive development. This has led to the growth and flowering of the PVV and a very clear counter-sound against the Islamisation of the Netherlands. We should only be proud of that and be happy about it. At least I am; a lot of voters in the Netherlands are. Because thanks to that move, the eyes of a lot of people have opened and I even see a trend in the Chamber emerging into increasingly Islam criticism. So we're lucky to have that. That's a blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u157	I understand that your attitude towards Muslims, who I find rather fascist, is that people are being deported and my mother is no longer allowed to walk in the street with headscarf. She'll have to pay $1,000 for that first. That changes with the party, too. Korans are forbidden. Mosques have to close. Of course, there are people who seem to like that so much that they vote for the PVV. But the question is whether this really is what the PVV thinks. Or does the PVV ultimately increase the problem of political gain? Isn't it just pure populism? Aren't they lies the PVV is telling? You do not tell me that Mr Wilders, who has been in the Chamber for 30 years at least, has been in the Chamber for 22 years, but he has been there for 10 years to tell you that from the VVD. Mr Wilders is a sensible man who can weigh up what he thinks. Suddenly it's switched: all of a sudden the 1.6 billion are all wrong and that whole Islam can't be respected anymore. That is unbelievable, I say to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u158	It's starting to be cabaret. I answered the question. By the way: I haven't seen Islamic cabaret anywhere in the world or on TV before, so now we've met a new piece of culture. The question also took quite a long time, I must say. The most important point in the whole part of Mr Azarkan is that he says: I find that fascist. That is, of course, politically very useful when you come from a fascist culture, which is Islam. If you study the books and ideology well, then you can say nothing but that it is past Mussolini. Then, of course, it is useful to turn that around and mirror it by saying: the one who fights it is fascist. Look, that's the trick Mr. Azarkan is pulling. That's what he was trying to do, but that's what this is about. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the first D66 minister there ever was in this country. That was Hans Gruijters. He felt that the Netherlands could not be an immigration country. He wanted to stop the admission of asylum seekers, because the admission of asylum seekers to the full Netherlands would only exacerbate the problems. We come to Willem Drees, with the PvdA well known. He was against family reunification of migrant workers. He found that Joop den Uyl by statutory regulation of the residence of illegal migrant workers called it bed-bath bread, or beyond that the housing and employment were adversely affected. It's like today. Drees wiped the floor with Den Uyl, so we read in De Telegraaf of that time. Now we have a whole room full of Joop den Uyls. Drees thought 10 million inhabitants were enough. That's what he had Queen Juliana say in 1950. Look where we're standing: almost double. Then we come to Queen Juliana, our then queen. She said in her last speech to the throne, in 1979: "The Netherlands is full, and partly overcrowded. In Dutch society, the number of people of foreign language and culture is rapidly increasing." That's what she said from the throne. "Especially in the big cities, this creates problems." We had 14 million inhabitants back then. All these insights are about filling our country with people from other countries. In practice, that meant that we came under far-reaching influence of Islamic countries. And what the POCOB Committee was investigating is actually a factor that has been established for centuries within every country that is Islamising. The hidjra, the migration, is a conscious doctrine, and thus a conscious foreign interference in parts of the world that have not yet been Islamized. It is literally part of the doctrine: the hidjra, foreign influence. That's why I always get so pissed off when more and more people are admitted. Mr. Chairman. What did others think of this Islamic influence? I'm quoting Tony Blair. He said: "I fear that the problematic tension within Islam is not reserved for a handful of extremists. In essence, it has a view on religion and on the relationship between religion and politics that is incompatible with pluralistic, liberal, liberal society. I come to Spinoza, who said: it is clear that Muhammad was an impostor, because he has completely abolished freedom. I come to Winston Churchill, who said: the Muslim religion stirs up the fire of intolerance instead of tempering it, it was originally spread through the sword and since then its followers have been at the mercy of this form of insanity. Mr. Chairman. How many times has the Party for Freedom here in the Chamber, in different keys I have to admit that there is a danger in allowing too much Islam in a country? How often have we outlined the consequences of mass immigration, consequences for security, for our culture, for the values and standards at school, in the streets and in every place where people meet? How many times have we talked here as Brugman, shown facts, provided support and explained as half imams here in the Chamber what Islam actually means? As PVV, we showed the Chamber the manner and history of Islamic conquests. We explained the difference between Mecca and Medina as an era within Islam. Think of the abrogation theory, of taqqiya. Then I have to think of Femke Halsema, who couldn't even say the word but blew very high off the moral tower, from the moral plateau, where it is very cold by the way. She did think we should allow Islamization. She even filed a motion for that. Mr Wilders introduced here a certain concept on behalf of Islam... not on behalf of Islam, but on Islam, of course, I must say, but she could not even say that. That was kind of funny. We also talked about takfir, haram, fatwa, dhimmi, hadj, madrassa, dar al-harb, sharia, Hadith, Sunna, the role of an imam, submission and the diagonally opposing concept of justice in Islam towards the West. All these concepts we explained in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The most important of all are the consequences for the ordinary man and woman in the street, in the apartment buildings, in the neighbourhoods where more and more Islam can be seen, in the cities and in the villages. The working Dutch people saw their social environment slowly go to pieces. I have put forward a number of quotes that have already warned against that. They lost their physical and social security. They couldn't and can't understand their neighbors anymore. They saw the blood of the halal slaughtered sheep flowing over their balcony and porch. These people are now often the last Dutch in their porch or at their gallery. What makes it worse: they forced the elite of the Binnenhof to pay for their own misery, double paid. As PVV, we don't just explain what's going on. We're not just predicting how it's gonna go. No, we're naming the facts and getting thrown out by the political elite. We propose solutions that the political elite do not want, supported by the politically correct TV, radio, newspapers and censorship masters of big tech. Because the super diverse society is the elitist toy. It is their indulgence that gives them some good feeling about themselves after growing up boundless, without morality and without their own identity. The children of the smoking hippies like Freek de Jonge thought that everything of value should be thrown overboard. We live in the result of the 68's revolution. Everything could have been destroyed, everything had to be destroyed, and everything would have been destroyed. I can imagine that looking back on the smoking heaps of society that you've helped break down, there's nothing you can do but regret, but admitting it doesn't fit in such a head. That hurts. Significance is cheaper and simpler. But virtue is a kind of splash screen between your actions and recognizing its consequences. Suit is maximum cognitive dissonance. Whoever's good puts the monkey of his own failure on the shoulders of someone who sees and names your mistakes, and also wants to solve them. These people remained loyal to the politically correct parties and are responsible for the ruins of eight years of Purple, eight years of Balkenende and also the last eight years of Rutte, a quarter of a century of demolition bullet policy. The virtue of the elite is the cold echo at the eulogy, pronounced when ordering a once so beautiful society. A society with perhaps a few lesser sides in the past, but could it not be solved within the existing cohesion? And I say, of course, you could have. But not according to those left-wing hippies. After the fumes of Woodstock were lifted, the lack of self-esteem was bought off with mass immigration and Islamization; if I can't love myself but others, because what you're doing is good, or something like that. Culture Marxism became the whole thing. Differences were no longer allowed to be named. But those who do not possess their own personal identity cannot contribute to the preservation of a common culture. So the concept of "leading culture" was quickly put in the trash or thrown in the trash. It also does not fit within the equality constraint of cultural Marxism. Those who have no identity are like a doughnut: a fat body with a sugary edge but where the soul should be sitting, we see a hole. Then you would almost understand that you will see Islam as the new backbone of society and that you will sing: you are welcome in this country. And all I'm saying is, Lord, forgive what they're doing, because they don't know what they're doing. The philosopher Carl Jung already said: if you cannot find the reasoning behind an action, then look at the consequences, then the intention becomes clear. And the political elite here in the Chamber is talking about connection and inclusion in a naive attempt to achieve some coherence in this parallel, but they hate the people who have paid their fairy tales with money, with the loss of social cohesion and security and in more and more cases even with their lives. We stand up for those people. We as PVV appoint and build, but we and our constituents are discriminated against by the perpetrators of all this suffering. Inclusion and connection only apply to people from outside, to Black Lives Matter, to Islamic drivers, to Broadcast Black and to the followers of Marxist grant-jumpers. That's the wretched reality. So, Chairman, that was my long introduction; just a sip. We have often explained, predicted and put forward solutions, and we will continue to do so. My introduction was long because this story, this history of loss and fusion, was actually the prelude to the establishment of this parliamentary committee. Then we'll look at the report itself. Everything in this report was, of course, already known. I have just said a few things, and the interruptions have already made some sense. There is indeed a lot of money coming to the Netherlands from the Middle East and Turkey. That money creates more Islam in the Netherlands. Well, we already know that. The name of the report is also a bit strange: "Invisible influence" with those brackets, but the influence of Islam is visible every day in the Netherlands and Islam is becoming more and more visible; that is the problem. Invisible is what maintains politics, for example the role of the Muslim Brotherhood in our country. What also became very clear is the growing power of Islam and Islam organizations and its hatred towards the Netherlands. We've all been able to see it in the interviews. Take, for example, the alFirah mosque: two lawsuits and a declaration. But also the arrival of violent preachers and state-dangering imams; I have just mentioned Amaouch. Diyanet's lies also passed by. Take the question of the Ottoman war songs from the time of the Armenian genocide that was, I think, in the east of the country, in Almelo, sung by men in costumes from that time. And not just sung by men in costumes from that time, but at the commemoration of 100 years of Armenian genocide. Mr. Türkmen tried to lead the place around the Islamic garden but in the end it turned out that Diyanet had even organized it; at first he knew nothing about it. I wonder what the reaction would have been if something similar had happened during the commemoration of another recent genocide. Fill in the images, the songs and the sound itself. Then back to the committee. It writes in the preface: "The findings give us cause for concern" and "This can create parallel societies." Yeah duh, my daughter would say. What a cautious politically correct nonsense. The Netherlands has long been a parallel. On page 12 we read that salafism is a problem but so is the Muslim Brotherhood. Well, that's very new! My goodness, was it necessary to carry out an expensive parliamentary inquiry in order to find that they are both striving for the introduction of Sharia? What, then, has everyone here in the Chamber done in recent years in their political careers? Well, that's the thing: focus entirely on the PVV with blinders on, because we were evil. The party that's told all this so many times, it had to break. And you've all let your eyes be cast by Muslim brother Marcouch who when I threatened to get a majority for an investigation into his Muslim brotherhood suddenly flaunted a desert sand motion and got Mrs Tellegen from the VVD so crazy to lime her name underneath it as well. A motion to name Salafism as a problem and thus park the fraternity in the shadow of the debate. And I did. In this country, those kind of drivers of Islamization and Sharia become mayors of a medium-sized city. I'm going back to the report, page 13. It says: "Children from 4 to 14 years of age receive an average of five to six hours a week, with outliers to fourteen hours a week, as with alFirah. For example, children are taught that apostates deserve the death penalty, followers are advised not to go to the police if they have knowledge of a crime committed by a Muslim and the community at alFirah is advised to conclude Islamic marriages without prior civil marriage." Also regarding Koran schools and Islam internationaties, the PVV filed motions. We didn't get any support. Then to pages 85 and 86: "In relation to the situation in education, Mr Meijs, in his interview, states that he sees a parallel society emerging in more and more places in some schools in the major cities." "Let me make it even more concrete," he said. There is a "public primary school (...) There is not one non-Islamic child at that public primary school. We went to work on that. That is necessary, because we are raising children on that Islamic island, from toddler to 11-year-old in a fully parallel society: there is the Netherlands and this is us. We have parents there. They'll all be very good parents who have a lot of love for their children who have just as much distance from that society. If we want to organise meetings there to support and strengthen, we need to organise separate meetings for the fathers and separate meetings for the mothers. That's how far that parallel society is already emerging. I am shocked by that," says Mr Meijs. He continues, and I quote: "Whatever school you go into, if you go to the cafeteria of a high school or from a rock, there's colour in color, faith in faith. Integration? Maybe integrating into the Netherlands is as close to each other as possible. Learning together? Meaningful friendships, intercultural or interreligious? I don't know," he said. And he continued: "They are there, but it is not the normal situation. So I think that the distance to each other in society is much greater than we say out loud with each other." He then counted outside the PVV, which of course has been making this point for years. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to the committee's solutions. The Committee lists five categories of measures to combat unwanted influence from non-free countries. Monitoring, diplomacy, banning funding flows, informal mosque education and finally making Muslim communities more resilient. Apart from the funding ban, one measure is even more alien than the other. All obsolete eighty-year-old social academy-goat woollen socks solutions. The hippies still seem to be in power. Conclusion: The Committee of Inquiry was mainly a vagrant. There is only one working way, but it should not be mentioned to address this problem: stop Islamization and close the mosques. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of Islamic drivers before the committee. We've seen how they despise our country. And then these are just the blowers. But they do have a very important role to play. These are the imams, the drivers. The Islamic deception rolled as a fondant of their tongue and the committee turned it into policor fast food: expensive, you are quickly full, but soon there will be regret and it is not good for your health. Happily, there's also an exception. Against one person of the Taqqiya brigade was reported. So, what's the situation with this report anyway? Does the minister know that, or does he get an Akwasio release because of his origins? Condemnation by conjured witnesses, by the Islamic drivers, it was the common thread of the interrogations. They showed that the PVV has been right all along. What a pity that, except sometimes the SGP and the FvD, other parties have always been too busy, and still, fighting precisely the PVV. Looking away from them and their virtues have helped our country to the parallel fucking mess. But I'm seeing another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u159	Just for a second. Mr De Graaf of the PVV is now putting the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in which every party in this house has been working hard in the summer as a kind of weak thing. That work to get into the subject, to speak with experts, to question where witnesses have come, to which we have all done our best to do so. I have seen it with my own colleague, Aukje de Vries, put him away as something that has not given any answers that we did not already know. Then he says: for yes, the actual, real solution would be: close the mosques and stop Islam. But didn't the PVV know from the beginning that that could never be an outcome that would be widely challenged in this Chamber? You knew that from the beginning, didn't you? Then why did the PVV sit on that committee after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u160	I would like to thank the committee for its excellent work. I may have forgotten to say that at the beginning, so thank Mrs Becker for the heads-up. Is also the work of a committee that in the summer... I also work through in the summer. I think that's perfectly normal, so we don't have to compliment ourselves on that. I shall also go into the subjects on which I may speak in the Chamber. I'm always very happy about that. So I think this is no exception to give an extra compliment. Yes, Mr Mulder of our party has been on the committee, but he also got off in good time when these politically correct fucking conclusions came out on paper. That is allowed; it is all part of the parliamentary situation here in the House. Why shouldn't I be allowed to criticize? It can only be done in a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u161	When this committee was set up, it was very clear that it would be a parliamentary questioning. Of these, we have all agreed that there are never any recommendations. That's the first thing. So the PVV knew that in advance. The PVV was there all the time and said all the way at the end: we're getting out because they're fucked up conclusions. Now I hear Mr Machiel de Graaf say that's because it doesn't say that we're closing mosques in the Netherlands. But did you really expect that to be the widely shared conclusion of this Chamber? Or was there perhaps another reason to be able to say once more, with a lot of publicity and bombs,: look, the PVV is getting out? That does not really take the work of the committee seriously. I'm sorry about that. My specific question is therefore the following. Would you have stayed as PVV only if the report had said "close the mosques and stop Islam"? That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u162	That's a long introduction to a short question. I do not know whether I should go into the long introduction or the short question or both, but I will do my best. We have had another parliamentary committee, which was not allowed to draw any political conclusions, but did. That was the basis of the fact that Mr Mulder finally left the committee. Too few and too few sharp conclusions were drawn; that is the point. One of the examples is that you should not say that mosques should be closed. We can even see the consequences of this other parliamentary committee of inquiry or interrogation committee unfolding under our eyes today, because very clear political conclusions were drawn from the committee that dealt with the childcare allowance. We can already see the fatal consequences of this in the PvdA, for example. I don't give it to anyone, but it will. These conclusions could be drawn there and those conclusions could not be drawn from this committee, in which Mr Mulder was present. Then I think you have every right to say you don't agree with the conclusions and you get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u163	The PVV always makes it a hobby to call the VVD hypocritical, but what is the PVV doing here today? You are actually saying that it is a fucked-up report, but if it suits you, you are pointing out all kinds of very sharp statements contained in this report, which expose very much what is going on in society and also a number of solutions put forward by this committee to deal with it. Call it shit, call it limp to see if you can actually get a ban on mosque financing. Isn't that a little hypocritical? If you think it's a bullshit report, don't quote it to back up your own ideas. Then just stick to the PVV ideas that we've known or acknowledged for years just that you've been on that committee to get a media moment, so the PVV can say again that the rest of the Chamber is no good. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u164	What I find very unfortunate is Mrs Becker's somewhat totalitarian breast, who actually wants to write my contribution. Well, I guess I'll have to ask her if she's in the right party. I'm just calling it a GroenLinkswoman. Maybe that'll fit better. That's where the ex-communists are. They have a bit more totalitarian skills and a bit more totalitarian breast, so maybe that would fit better. I'd say go neighborhoods before the election, maybe you can still get on the list. I'll tell you through the chairman. Then you may have a very good asset. Yeah, you never know. I always like to bring people together. In that respect, I'm really off the hook. Writing my speech? No, I'll do it myself. I am talking about my own words and the PVV is talking about its own parliamentary action. It was a nice attempt to try to reverse the interruption I made at the beginning of the debate at the end of my speech, but that does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr De Graaf continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u166	Yeah, let's see. Where was I? The contempt by conjured witnesses, by the Islamic drivers, was the common thread of the interrogations. That's where I was. They showed that the PVV has been right all along. What a pity that the other parties, sometimes with the exception of the SGP and the Forum, were too busy pointing their arrows at us. That's how the country went to the parallel fucking mess. Finally, a few points. Islam is what it is. The committee has now made its acquaintance with it. But she didn't really offer any solutions. That's a waste of time and money. In an interrupting debate I said that there are Muslims in the Netherlands too, cultural Muslims, people who are not really religious and who dare not say that they are not really Muslims anymore, who want to get away from that corner under the yoke of the drivers and from the threatening sharia measures. They don't want sharia. I support them precisely because they want to build a future in freedom and they are often assimilated or very well integrated. They do set our law above Islamic law. I say to them: just vote for us! Then my next point. If we want the Netherlands to remain a free country, we will have to de-Islamicise. I say that apart from the restrictions on freedom surrounding corona, because that is another story and I want to stay away from it. We are talking about this subject now, and I want to relate it to that. Once again, I shall table a number of motions for resolutions in the second term, which must lead to this. This will help our children, our elders and ourselves, but also all Muslims who want to leave under the threat of Sharia. The good listener will have noticed that I have hardly actually asked questions to the ministers. It doesn't matter, because it's the end of their term, and that might come sooner than expected. The answers might make a little less difference. We will then continue with the debate in the next period. But I do want to know about one thing: the role of the Muslim Brotherhood. That point has emerged from the committee's investigation. We have often pointed this out ourselves. Is the Minister, especially the Minister of SZW, prepared to carry out an investigation, including from the government, into the interests, role and people of the Muslim Brotherhood in the administration in the Netherlands? Finally, my final remark. The only thing really anti-right-wing state in the Netherlands is Islam itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u167	Thank you for your speech. The next speaker will be Mr Van Dijk of the Socialist Party, but first the chair will be cleaned again. Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Chairman. In 2018, my colleague Sadet Karabulut, together with the SGP, asked for a parliamentary questioning about the foreign financing and influence of mosques. That is what the Rog Committee came out of. Their report we're discussing today. The investigation follows a number of astonishing revelations by NRC and Nieuwsuur. We see the Dutch mosques getting money from the Gulf States. We see imams making disgusting utterances about lashes, stoning and the death penalty for apostates. And we see that the government is withholding information on this. Three quarters of the municipalities were not informed by Social Affairs, despite the promise to do so. Was this another case of the Ruttedoctrine avant la lettre? I'd like a response. Many thanks to the committee for its work. Respect for the courageous speakers who have been questioned by the committee. That wasn't always easy because of possible reprisals. But thanks to them, we heard firsthand what happened in certain mosques. The results don't lie. Anti-democratic ideas are financed from abroad. This undermines our core values of equal treatment and equal rights............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's very worrying. The report states that children, for example in the alFirah Mosque, learn that apostates deserve the death penalty. Fathers give daughters away at marriages, and there's no reason to go to the police. It was particularly shocking to see how the committee has been countered from various sides. Some parties refused to cooperate. What's the status of the lawsuit on that? Moreover, it was remarkable how badly some institutions had their administration in order. In this way, too, the committee's investigation was made more difficult. The conclusions should encourage action. It is unacceptable for young people to be told that they should reject Dutch society because our standards and values would not be right. These young people deserve a place in our society. We really must prevent them from turning away from our society because of wrong influences. Just as worrying is the informal mosque education, also known as the weekend schools. There too, children are taught questionable things. Children there learn about the submissiveness of women or about rejecting gays. That is completely unacceptable. This should at least be monitored properly, in accordance with the motion of VVD and SP. How are we doing on this? In November, the cabinet came up with the reaction. It was insufficient as far as I was concerned, but some steps are being taken. The cabinet wants to gain insight into the money flows from abroad. As far as we are concerned, it would be good if mayors could intervene as soon as they come across a remarkable fact. What is the exact reason for this bill to look at organisations' ledgers? Please explain the steps that mayors, or the prosecution, can take. The government also wants to use diplomatic means to raise flows of money from states. But why would a country such as Turkey or a country in the Middle East go into this? What exactly is the government's intention to use? How do they prevent this from becoming a goddamn game? In addition, the Minister wants to identify through the AIVD which countries and other actors exert influence through the funding of organisations. What is known about this so far, I ask the government. Mr. Chairman. I do not need firm proposals to curb foreign funding. There is a legislative proposal, but that is really not enough, and that is what this debate has been going on for so long. Look at those revealing broadcasts and articles from Nieuwsuur and NRC in 2018. "At least 30 Islamic organizations in the Netherlands have applied for funding in recent years in (...) Gulf States or have actually received money from these countries. We are talking about millions of euros from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. This is demonstrated by information that the government has kept secret for years, but which NRC Handelsblad and Nieuwsuur managed to lay their hands on." Can the government respond to this? How is it possible that the government held back that information at the time? Was this about the Ruttedoctrine again, the doctrine of sharing information with the Chamber only when it suits the government? A scandalous doctrine, as we now see in the supplemental affair. And then there's the broken promise. Take a look at the 2017 coalition agreement: "It is important to prevent the purchase from abroad of undesirable influence through money flows to political, social and religious organisations." That's plain language. But little has come of it. Look at the bill, the transparency law, civil society organisations. The law "obligates civil society organisations to disclose the amount and country of origin of donations if these donations come from outside the EU." That is very nice, but that does not meet the long-cherished desire of the Chamber to put an end to this foreign financing. There must be transparency, but even that applies only to countries outside the EU. Why? Is there nothing wrong with large sums of money going to Dutch institutions from Italy or Hungary, Poland or Ireland? I mean, there's gotta be a way to see that, right? It's kind of half work this way. That is why I am calling today for a ban on foreign funding of religious institutions. We want to limit unwanted influence. It is unacceptable for foreign donors to poison our young people with reprehensible ideas, for example that women or gays are inferior. In addition, we use a separation between church and state in the Netherlands. That goes equally well for foreign states, of course. Countries such as Saudi Arabia, Turkey, but also the United States have nothing to do with Dutch religious institutions. We must prevent them from buying influence here, because who pays determines. It is a pity that the Chamber should now take action; the government should have done so itself for a long time. Despite good promises, little has come of it. That is why the Chamber itself must act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you very much for your speech. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mr Van Ojik, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can discuss the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee today, because undesirable influence, funded from abroad, can have far-reaching consequences for our democratic rule of law. My group believes that the parliamentary interrogation committee has done a good job. I would like to add my compliments to those of my colleagues. This also applies very explicitly to those who have been at risk by giving a sincere and honest testimony before the committee. Mr. Chairman. "There is no doubt that influence is taking place from non-free countries," the Committee concludes. "This goes through funding mosques and related foundations, through schools and broadcasting of imams, through the dissemination of teaching and recruitment material and, increasingly importantly, through social media messages. What exactly is undesirable about this influence and what needs to be done against it is up to the Cabinet and the Chamber," says the Committee. That is what this debate is about today. In order to be able to act effectively against what is undesirable, it can help to further increase our understanding of the extent of the influence. We now know better and better how unwanted influence occurs, but how big the problem actually is is still not so clear. Global estimates of NCTV speak of an increase in the number of mosques with salafistic signature from 13 to 27 between 2014 and 2018. From the interviews, if I understand correctly, some between 10 and 20 come forward. The 2017 WODC study comes to a number of 23. The WODC says this is about 5% of the total of the 500 mosques. Mr. Chairman. There was remarkably little response to the WODC study. Is it an idea to have such a study done again, so that we can better understand the nature and extent of possible foreign influence of religious institutions in the Netherlands? This could also make the extent and impact of social media influence more easily understandable. I'm curious to hear the government's response. Mr. Chairman. The government agreement calls influence or funding from non-free countries and organisations through social media, undesirable. Mr Jasper van Dijk also spoke about it a moment ago. The coalition agreement says: "The cabinet wants to prevent undesirable influence from being bought from abroad. To this end, the Cabinet sees two possibilities: to increase transparency and to limit the flow of money which is abusing our freedoms." As far as my group is concerned, that is a good text. My question is in line with Jasper van Dijk's question, namely: what exactly has been done in the past period to curb this unwanted influence? And, more importantly, what insight have we gained in the impact of the measures taken? To be honest, that is not so clear to me. The cabinet response to the parliamentary inquiry made a clear distinction between five possible measures: the approach of actors, the understanding of the intentions of actors, the prevention of unwanted funding, the enhancement of resilience and the reduction of unwanted social effects. I'll walk by the most important of them. I would like to make it clear how my group views the various possibilities. First, the approach of actors. The cabinet response begins with Turkish interference with the diaspora. That is the first point. "If this goes beyond the limits of the rule of law, or hinders the participation of Dutch people with a Turkish background, we intervene," says the cabinet. We all remember the arrival of a Turkish minister in 2017, just before the previous elections. I have the following question to the cabinet: have any agreements been made to prevent this from happening again? "The Cabinet announces that, for campaign activities by politicians from non-EU countries, "the non-EU countries are once again "a general approach." That's a quote. The source of inspiration is Germany, where no campaign should be conducted three months before the elections. If that's what we're gonna do, I'm gonna ask the cabinet. We are obviously inspired by Germany, but does this mean that we are going to do so? And if we are going to do that, why should we confine ourselves to non-EU countries? Why should politicians from Poland, Bulgaria or from where do I know be allowed to campaign for people of their nationality? Mr. Chairman. The second point mentioned by the cabinet is funding from the Gulf States. The agreement is that the Dutch government will always be informed when such funding takes place. Does the Minister have the impression that perhaps I should ask the Foreign Minister that this is happening now? What kind of image does that get? Further agreements run into the request for reciprocity and we cannot comply with that, the cabinet says. Can the Minister explain that? This reciprocity was also included in the coalition agreement. Another point from the cabinet response is the refusal of a visa to extremist speakers. That's a good idea. But the cabinet says there's a field of tension with freedom of speech. How does the government deal with this in practice? Does it often happen that we would actually want to refuse a visa but that this is not possible because there is a tension with freedom of expression? Perhaps more clarity can be obtained. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned the social media influence. My impression is that it is becoming more and more important. But we're only at the beginning of regulation. For the time being, Twitter and Facebook seem to determine who they allow and who they don't. Can the cabinet go into this again separately? Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about perhaps one of the most important parts of this debate: combating unwanted funding. GroenLinks supports the idea behind the Transparency Act for civil society organisations. The Council of State has advised against a mandatory annual donation statement. That would be too generic, and there are 350 000 civil society organisations, and not proportionate. Now we need a request for information first. If there is far-reaching or undesirable foreign influence, criminal action can be taken in the extreme. Those who do not cooperate can be dealt with. Then there is an economic crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have a question about the transparency of organisations; I saw a nice hook in it to deal with Mr Van Ojik's speech from GroenLinks. I've already mentioned the Muslim Brotherhood myself. For example, Mr Marcouch, the former PvdA chamber member who is now mayor in Arnhem, was very inspired by Yusuf Al-Qradawi, not the most fresh boy in his ideas, views and actions. But I have previously tabled a motion twice on research into the Muslim Brotherhood when it comes to transparency of organisations; that was in 2016 and also in 2017, I thought. I was just asking the Minister about that. It's about the interests of that organisation, the people involved, what they all do in the Netherlands and in which administrative bodies they've all been infiltrated. It would be nice if an investigation could be carried out, but GroenLinks voted against twice. Can Mr. Van Ojik explain why that happened at the time? He was sitting there at the time, I think... He was gone for a while during that period, but I think he was there in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u172	No, that happened in the period when I was not in the Chamber in the last decade, so what exactly at that time was the reason to vote against that motion, I cannot say to Mr De Graaf. But I can imagine you saying, "I'd like to have more insight." If I have listened carefully to Mr De Graaf, he just announced in his own term that he would ask the cabinet by motion to conduct an investigation. I can very well imagine, when we talk about unwanted influence, that we want to get as much information as possible about it. That's why I just said: do we know enough? That's what I started my contribution with. For example, I find the response that came from mosques, for example, to that WODC study very moderate, very small. So I could imagine that you would like to have more information on a number of points. That could also be about the Muslim Brotherhood. So I would say: I am curious to see how the cabinet will react and I await the proposal. But if Mr De Graaf asks me exactly why the GroenLinks Group voted against the PVV motion in 2016, he is asking me about it right now. I can't say that, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u173	Thank you to Mr Van Ojik for his clear and clear answer. It was exactly that time. I didn't look into whether or not you were there...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u174	I wasn't there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u175	You weren't there at the time, were you? When I looked at the committee, I also saw how Mr Van den Berge, who happened to have appeared to be quite a critic of the Muslim Brotherhood today. That was on behalf of the committee, but still. I really liked to see that. He asked very hard, very firm, very good. I think that is a good development, because we have to look at the unfree influences in our country, or the influences towards freedom, so that we have a good map of them. As it happens, we've known about the brotherhood for a long time... There is a journalist, Carel Brendel, who brings that very well into view, in this case via the Internet, in a very nice blog about it that he keeps track of and where we can get a lot of information from, but of course there are more sources than just this one. You know what? We are indeed waiting for the Minister's response. If necessary, I will come forward with a motion. And then I'll stop by Mr. Van Ojik's house and he doesn't have to sign it; all that doesn't necessarily have to be done to see if he could support the motion. I'd love that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u176	It would make this debate a historic debate in advance if Mr De Graaf tabled a motion on the Muslim Brotherhood, which GroenLinks is going to say: we can at least vote for it. I therefore await the motion with great interest. Mr. Chairman. In particular, I would like to talk in the remaining time, also in relation to the proposals made by Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD Group, about: how exactly are we going to deal with this undesirable funding? I understand the objections of the Council of State, but the approach chosen by the cabinet seems vulnerable to me, because that approach stands or falls at the moment when you are going to ask an organization, a mosque, a church or whatever for information. In fact, you only do that if you suspect that there is unwanted funding. You don't know what you don't know, do you? You don't know what you don't know. Just determining who you're gonna ask for extra information is gonna be an extremely bureaucratic process, I'm afraid. There are 350,000 civil society organisations in the Netherlands. There is a risk of arbitrary or stigmatisation by asking only a very specific type of organisation for additional information. Wouldn't it be better, I ask the cabinet, to work with a generic criterion that applies to everyone? That is perhaps a bit between Mrs Becker's proposal for a separate law and the cabinet's proposal for a law on transparency that may be very unworkable, so my fear is. Wouldn't it be better to work with a generic criterion which applies to everyone for each organisation, for example: any organisation receiving more than a certain amount from outside the Netherlands or any organisation that has support from outside the Netherlands that accounts for more than a percentage x of the budget must provide information; if you do not, you are punishable. Isn't that a much more logical way than what the cabinet is proposing? Mr President, I shall conclude. My group welcomes the extensive attention in the cabinet response to measures to increase the resilience of communities. Indeed, as the Cabinet recognises, discrimination in the labour market and in education, Islamophobia and social backwardness are a breeding ground for undesirable foreign influence and the problematic behaviour and radicalisation that can result from it. But the existence of a breeding ground is no excuse. This is apparent from the vast majority of Dutch Muslims who unfortunately face discrimination and disadvantage, but who fortunately never, but never, chooses for problematic behavior or radicalisation. I hope that we always bear that in mind in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you. Let me look at the time and the speaking time that has been notified. That's why I think it would be wise to suspend for lunch until 1.10 p.m. Then we'll continue the debate.
