ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	We shall now proceed with the debate on the final report of the informant. First of all, I would like to give Mrs Ouwehand the floor for an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Since this debate is on two subjects, in particular the question of who still has confidence, I would like to propose that Members who still have to speak should be able to ask that question and, therefore, to increase the number of interruptions you have identified earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would like to take a look at my fellow Members to see if there is any support for increasing the number of interruptions with an interruption, with every interruption in two. I would like to point out to Mrs Ouwehand that the interruptions are really short, without any extensive introductions. I've reported that a few times before. So with that condition in mind, I believe there is support for your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	Fine. And I can promise that my question is about trust. It can be short and anyone can expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	I'll hold you to that, Mrs. Ouwehand. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr President, we will soon be discussing confidence in Mrs Ouwehand in the CDA Group. So I can't say much about that right now. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink very much for his excellent work and his willingness to ship order in the chaos that has created this and that. As a CDA group, we broadly support the recommendations made by Mr Tjeenk Willink. As far as we are concerned, it is now time to work on defining the major problems and challenges that lie ahead and which a subsequent cabinet will then have to work on. We think it is a good thing that all parties will at least do so themselves, as Mr Tjeenk Willink has laid down. We hope that many will follow us, precisely because two months ago Dutch people went to the polls with an assignment for all of us. Of course, we have responsibility for our own voters, but in the end, representing the entire Dutch people together, we have responsibility for all of them. Mr. Chairman. My conviction was, and remains, that the people in the country consider the substantive challenge to be even more substantial than what we are discussing here about the relationship between them. What does our country need? To a fair economy, with everything that is going on in the Netherlands, Europe and the rest of the world. And the major structural challenges, whether they relate to housing, the labour market or all those adjacent areas. The Dutch need a safe society, with everything that is going on in the area of the rule of law and organised crime, which eats up society. The Dutch need a reliable government. As you know, we have put forward proposals for this in our electoral programme and also at various other times. All this must be done in a way that is just and sensible for these, but also for future generations, without having to pay them a heavy bill. Of course, I am thinking in particular of Mr Klaver when I say that this account and that future should be about, yes, also public finances, but also the climate, also security; all those things that are relevant to today's generations but also to future generations. Mr. Chairman. The formation process is "Let me put it this way" so far, not at the speed of light. But the winners of the elections are again on the move, and as far as I am concerned this is something of a second chance; perhaps you should say: a third chance. Over the past few weeks, it's been a lot about the board style. You know that the CDA has also made a large number of proposals for this in earlier stages in our election programme, but also in recent months and weeks. It is good to see that they are also increasingly being taken over, here in the plenary and occasionally also at Nieuwsuur. Mr. Chairman. We're eight weeks away. We have a responsibility to deal with the problems and not to focus on ourselves all the time. Finally, I have said it before, but I would like to repeat it: politicians should not want to promise too much. We, the representatives of the people, must show it above all. In that the National Ombudsman told us yesterday a mirror, some will say, but most of my relatives would say 'gave a kick in the ass'. Because trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. Therefore, let us all step by step, without pretensions, do our stinking best to do what we have all been chosen to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	The awareness of Mr Omtzigt is not entirely without risk. At some point, it's gonna hit your voice. I have a question for Mr Hoekstra about that trust. Is Mr Hoekstra sufficiently confident that he will be able to cooperate with Mr Rutte on the basis of what he has seen in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	As far as that voice is concerned, it has been my intention to yell less at the children. But at least I will not do that before a debate, because I immediately agree that the quality of the exchange of views with Mr Azarkan does not benefit. The CDA Group indicated for a reason that on 1 April there was every reason, as far as we are concerned, to support a motion of censure towards the foreman of the VVD. But it was not for nothing that we did not support a motion of censure. Mr Azarkan is well aware of the rule of trust. So if you don't support a motion of censure, then the trust is there. That's what our constitutional right is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr President, I am keeping this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	Well, I guess there's another lucky one for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hoekstra. Then we will clean up and give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. On Monday were the affected parents of the supplement scandal in the House of Representatives. They're still in trouble. I had hoped that the radical ideas presented would provide at least one concrete solution for these parents. But I didn't hear it. It's a lot about the governance culture. It was a lot of that, and that is what we are talking about today in the debate. I just said it: I find it not only a very ugly word in itself, but much more interesting: I think it is a very concealing term. "Culture," like it's not a political thing. "Culture" is, after all, something like the customs and habits that we develop together. As far as we're concerned, that's a wrong idea. This is politics in everything. The childcare allowance scandal is political in everything. The individualism driven by neoliberalism and the insane institutionalized distrust of the government in people are political in all respects. I therefore also believe that, on the eve of another new attempt at formation, we should not restrict the debate to just a debate on this so-called governance culture. The childcare allowance and any supplements as such are a neo-liberal project. Why do we have surcharges in the Netherlands? Because the rent, care and childcare are so expensive, and because a lot of working people earn so little that they need a supplement to make ends meet. The way in which child care is organized is crucial, isn't it? Why do we leave care of what we think is most important, namely our children, to the market? Why don't we organize and pay it together? The supplemental scandal is then about the child care facility of course shows much more of what is wrong with our system according to the SP. Think of the freaking individualization. You can't live together alone. But if you need the government these days, you'll soon be a potential fraud. We don't only see that when it comes to fees. For example, we also see this in healthcare. People who need care or work in care will recognize that. You have a life-long disability, but you still have to apply for an indication every year. Then you actually become that indication. That's what you get, instead of the person who needs the care. The same applies to caregivers. We don't give caregivers the confidence that they're doing the right thing from the point of view of their profession. No, they have to report what they're doing continuously in distrust. I also mention the... I was going to say morale, but perhaps I should say the absence of morality in our public institutions. At one of those IRSs, there's someone who comes up with "packing day." What that says about the morals of such an institution... That is significant and it is political in everything. Then there is the erosion of our democracy. We have seen in the surcharge scandal how wrong it can be if democracy does not work. Eventually it has come up, but of course we see that more widely. I remember when I was sitting here as a new MP, the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals closed. That's what we were trying to prevent, because we need these hospitals a lot. So we called the minister to the chamber: keep those hospitals open! It wasn't about it. It was up to the health insurance company. He pulled the plug. Then we stood here: the elected parliament and the minister. That's bad. If democracy, parliament and, therefore, society no longer has any say in what is ours in this case, which is the public sector, then that will lead to alienation. That's gonna make me feel less confident. That is why we believe it is important that this fundamental debate is now taking place on the eve of a new formation. As far as we are concerned, that should also be the task of a new cabinet, whoever will be part of it. That fundamental change must be made. Then, as far as we are concerned, is it possible to ask the people who have been responsible for that system in recent years and for those problems to resolve it? Finally, I would like to thank Mr Tjeenk Willink for his work. I want to ask him two things. Has Mr. Tjeenk Willink investigated a scenario without Mark Rutte? Did he get the impression in his talks that there are enough parties who could now make a spin and say 'we have that confidence again'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then we will quickly clean up and give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink for his work as an informant. It is a good practice, it seems, that as soon as chaos arises in politics in The Hague, he is called upon. That is never in vain, not even this time, for which I am very grateful. The election took place seven weeks ago today. Immediately after that election, I made clear the commitment of the Labour Party. As far as we are concerned, it was and is necessary to speak first of the information for a new cabinet about the major tasks that the Netherlands is facing, about the everyday concerns of all Dutch people. This would, of course, include the fact that we are expected to do so in response to these major problems and to formulate solutions to these concerns. Seven weeks later, we have to conclude that we have actually barely gotten there. The formation is degenerate into chaos and almost came to a standstill. Trust in the Prime Minister was abandoned by the entire opposition after his role in reconnaissance. The great waiting for the radical ideas of the VVD leader to do it differently, so far is quite... What shall I say... We have been waiting a long time. Meanwhile, the Dutch are waiting for us to really do something about these everyday problems, until there really are solutions to the problems caused by the corona crisis, which have been exposed and deepened by the corona crisis. The big workload in care. Every day we ask more of the employees in the care. The great sadness that has hit our country, now that so many people are confronted with serious illness or a great loss, when they have lost people. We have seen that cooperation in healthcare works better than market forces and competition. We see the concerns of entrepreneurs, of self-employed people, of the arts and culture sector, who are in the water's mouth. The inequality is growing, and that is what it should be about now. It should also be about Dutch people who are excluded by discrimination, by institutional racism, about people who are faced with a government that is opposed to them, rather than protecting them, such as the parents who were victims of the childcare allowance scandal and the people in Groningen, who are still waiting for recovery. Are we a government that is there for them and that protects them, instead of a government that turns against them? It must also address the major issues facing the Netherlands in the coming years when it comes to correcting the great inequality. The outgoing informant proposes to do so now and also makes a number of concrete proposals, such as, as I mentioned, the restoration after corona and the strengthening of the democratic rule of law. That can count on the support of the Labour Party. But there is also a need for other issues to be addressed. The security of work and income for all people in the Netherlands. It has to be possible to find an affordable house all over the country. All children must receive good education. Loving care must be available without the people in care constantly having to work overtime. We want a viable planet with protection for our nature and a clean energy supply, and a strong position of the Netherlands in Europe and in the world. And we do want to have a new governance culture, as it is called, but what I would just like to call: a fairer and better Netherlands, where, for example, all people have access to the law. We talked about that before. Mr. Chairman. It is time for the series to end, so that we can deal less with ourselves and especially with the Netherlands, with the problems of people. It is now up to a new informant to carry out and report on a substantive review. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	I would like to ask Mrs Ploumen what to reflect on this great issue of governance culture and power and opposition. What proposals do the Labour Party have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	If Mr Rutte had read our electoral programme, he could have read that we have many proposals for it. I'll do it in two parts. Look, we can talk fine here about the governance culture and about a coalition agreement being thinner, even thinner or thicker. I'm sure all of that will be fine if we intend to do so. But that doesn't solve people's problems. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Rutte in which I said: if people get ground up in those bureaucracies, if people never get another person on the phone when they call the UWV or the Tax Office, then you don't come up with a thin government agreement; then you have to do something about it. We have many proposals for this. I would like to mention, for example, that instead of what the VVD is doing, we are making savings on those implementing organisations, so that, for example, there are people at the UWV just to answer the phone again. We're strengthening justice. We ensure, for example, that such a terrible affair around the childcare allowance no longer needs to occur, because we believe that the minimum wage should be increased, that people should have a better income and that the childcare public should be financed by all of us. Mr. Chairman. I could go on for a while, but those are the proposals we have. We can talk here about dualism, a thinner coalition agreement and stop the coalition talks. All at your service, but that really only has meaning and relevance if it translates into sincere concerns about people's situation and a genuine desire to allow the government to be there to protect people rather than hunt them down. I think we're all responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	My question is about that sincerity. We had instructed the informant to investigate whether and, if so, whether sufficient trust exists or may arise between the parties. So my question is whether the Labour Party has sufficient confidence, or sees that arise, in Rutte's VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	I told you, we supported that motion of censure. We have also listened with interest to the proposals made by Mr Rutte in response to the debate we had. I've qualified those proposals as "undersized." I have not changed my mind today, so as far as we are concerned, the situation is unchanged and that confidence has not been restored. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink very much. A rather hopeless situation he managed to catch up with. He also got some fury at him: "What the hell is that man doing? Because we were only allowed to come by once, and then all kinds of other people came along, so what exactly is the intention?" In peace and quiet, he continued to work on what is now being done, namely a very firm opinion, which we fully support. I'll tell you what I like about it. We've been working on each other so much over the past few weeks. We were working on who likes each other and whether Mark Rutte will ever become another human being. Spoiler alert: I don't think so. But people can change, and we can try to do things differently. The essence of the advice that lies there, and what I like about it, is that you should talk to each other through the lines of content to find out if you can get together, or you can make sure that how things are going in the Netherlands get better and whether we're going to do it differently with each other. That's why you can't separate that governance culture from its content. So yes, it's about a way of working here in parliament. I am the first to say that the Cabinet and the Cabinets that have been there under Mr Rutte should have done better. But that's not gonna get us there. We will also have to look at how we do this as a parliament. And I am not talking about journalism, but I think journalists will also have to think about the role they play in democracy. Then we can have substantive debates again. This means giving space to the opposition when you are in a coalition, even if that opposition is not necessary for a majority. Over the past few years, I've noticed that if you're in the opposition and you're needed for a majority, well, guys, then the band is invited and then everything is suddenly possible. But if you are not needed for that majority and have a very good idea, then there is no listening. I think that's wrong. Good ideas must always be listened to. But why isn't that happening? That doesn't happen because it will always be referred to as a loss for the coalition if you admit something to the opposition. If we whistle back a minister because a law isn't right, it's a loss for a minister. But no, that's profit for the Netherlands! We have then ensured that a bad law has not been introduced. Then you're not just gonna try it again. That is what I mean by scoreboard politics, and we must distance ourselves from it. This requires a maturity of democracy and of all of us. I can see that challenge. We need to work on this with each other in the coming period, along the lines of content. I say to Mr Rutte: it is really about the content. It's about more than political differences. Yeah, there's a lot of them. But the profit of Mr Tjeenk Willink's opinion, if we agree with each other, is that there is a shared analysis of the problems that exist. One problem is, for example, that so much savings have been made on implementation and that so much pressure has been put on it, that tailor-made work is not possible. There is not enough room in the legislation to be able to deviate from implementation. So that requires a different way of looking. I've been critical of what Rutte said at Nieuwsuur, but I found one thing hopeful. That was about the care. I agree with what Mrs Marijnissen said. If we really want things to be different in health care and if people who work there get the space to pay attention to the people they work with, that doesn't just require better salaries. A better salary is important for the appreciation. But it also calls for the removal of this regulatoryism and pressure, which we have been talking about for so long. And they won't leave by saying, "We're quitting." They're embedded in the system. I don't want to run vendetta against health insurance companies here, because you'll soon come up with "good or bad." But because health insurers have to work in a market and want to make everything comparable, they are so incredibly demanding information that it is almost impossible to get rid of the control constraint. Mr President, I will conclude. The challenge we face as the Netherlands is great. Addressing climate change needs to be addressed, as well as tackling nitrogen. That starts with a shared analysis of the problems. From there, we're gonna see how we can solve it with each other. I don't know if that's gonna work. But I think we should start the substantive discussions with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr Rutte and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	Actually, I'm largely in agreement. I just had a question about health care. In my speech, I spoke about situations where the cost benefits go elsewhere. In home care, for example, people will have more room to spend their time in such a way that much has already been improved in recent years, but still the complaint is that a lot of protocol has been made, but in the system such a cost advantage is found than elsewhere in home care. How do you do that? That happens in all kinds of places in the government, even if you work somewhere in debt restructuring, for example. This may cost money, but the advantage may end up somewhere in a municipality or a government organization. How does Mr Klaver view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think Mr Rutte knows the answer. I think it was two years ago that we had a surplus in community nursing. That left money and the cabinet cut back on that. Here in the Chamber we made the proposal from the opposition to use the money for nursing homes, because if less money is spent in community care, it will come back to another place in care. But here it comes again: we were not needed for the majority and that proposal was then blocked by the coalition. So I am very pleased with what Mr Rutte is saying, because that is the step we should have taken. There you can see that content and political culture are coming together. This was just a really good idea, but it didn't fit in with the coalition agreements that were there and that's why it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	Touché.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	GroenLinks also supported the motion of censure. Since then, we have seen that Mr Klaver is trying very hard to get Mr Rutte to say what needs to be said, because Mr Rutte is not doing all that by himself. Especially in the case of GroenLinks, it is therefore exciting whether there is confidence and whether that trust can be restored. And, if so, what are the conditions for that? I'd appreciate it if we could clear that up today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear in my contribution. When it comes to trust or whether you think Mark Rutte can become another human being, you have to watch out for... That belief is very limited in my mind, but that is not the point. The discussions with each other should be about the content as soon as possible. If something can really change in substance, then that could be a reason to see if you could work with each other again at all. If you're talking about substantive changes, I'd like to mention a few things. That is that we no longer look away from science, for example when it comes to tackling climate change. That is that we no longer think that in the case of nitrogen we can reduce nitrogen emissions with art and flying work. We will have to come up with real solutions there. We will not have to push out the difficult political choices for us, but we will have to take them equally. I have said many times that this means that access to justice must be strengthened and that we must ensure that the public authorities are better in their implementation. That's all business, but whether something like this works or not, I don't know. That's what you're gonna have to talk to each other about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	A brief follow-up question, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Klaver found it reassuring that Rutte at Nieuwsuur said: "Take nitrogen. You know what we should have done there? We should have taken a little more time instead of solving the problem very quickly." A year and a half later, the problem has not been solved at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	No, that certainly doesn't give you confidence. This also gives me the opportunity to say something about the form of the coalition agreement. It has often been about broad lines and the wish that it should be a thin coalition agreement. I have always said that it is not about quantity but about quality. Let me give you an example. In the 2017 coalition agreement you see that no political choices are actually made for the climate. It's being pushed back very, very much. It has also been discussed for two years and two years have actually been lost. About a lot of details the lantern poles along the highway should or shouldn't be turned on? However, very concrete agreements are being made. Now take nitrogen. You can't move that forward. That has nothing to do with dualism or monism, because you have to have the courage to make firm political choices about it. That has to be done during formation, because if you don't, then you're years behind the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. Mrs Simons also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	I would like to put two questions to Mr Klaver along the lines of the content. Mr Klaver criticizes the ideology and administrative culture of the prevailing politics. The VVD and Mark Rutte took the lead in the last decade. Many social security guarantees have been broken down and institutional racism has not only been maintained, but has actually been caused. At least it's gotten worse. The VVD and Mark Rutte have also failed to fulfil their duty when it comes to combating the climate crisis, a very important point for Mr Klaver. Still, I can't hear him... I have an English word in my head and I have to look for Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	You can use the English word, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	I can't hear you rejecting him unequivocally. I do not hear you say: we absolutely cannot cooperate with the VVD. I am very curious how GroenLinks then imagines to be able to join a coalition with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	Of course, this was the subject of the campaign. I finally think that... Look, the voter's always right. That the VVD has made so many seats, I think... I think that could have been otherwise, but unfortunately that has not happened! But the voter is always right. Exactly how to do that, I don't really know yet. The only thing I am saying and the responsibility I feel is actually the advice that Mr Tjeenk Willink gives us: try to see where you can get along the lines of the content. Those differences, exactly as you outline, are enormous. On institutional racism, I would not say that it has arisen, but at least it has got worse in recent years. Addressing climate change... Yes, in the last period a bit of the leg has been added, but far from enough. So it will really be the question of what can happen on the content. I don't know, and the only way to get there is to talk about the content. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	All in all, it is a very clear answer: you do not firmly reject it. You're also very good at supporting that. You have reasonable reasons for that; according to you reasonable reasons, of course. Then I would also like to come back to that same line of content on a discussion note from the first explorers. In that we read that GroenLinks can make a point of migration and asylum, but does not choose to do it, and that, for example, only last week news came out about illegal pushbacks, while Camp Moria still exists and there are still many thousands of undocumented people in a lawless situation in this country. Should Mr Klaver have the confidence to join a coalition with Mr Rutte, is he still not going to make a point of these humanitarian abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	If I could ask you a question... I'll take this with me in culture. I remember these notes getting out. Then Mark Rutte said here in the Chamber at the end: just do mine and not all of us. I've never had a problem with this being an audience. If we're dealing with that a little maturely, I think that's very good. So I'm still okay with the Minutes... not a problem at all. That requires something of how we deal with each other and how we look at it. Some parties are going to spin about what that means. I take your question as follows: what did you say when you were sitting at the table? The question I was asked was this. Last time it was about agreements that should be made in Europe about third countries. My answer to that question has been: those agreements have not been reached, so we have a very firm... It has been so firm that it has even been broken on that. That didn't happen, so you can play that by saying "no, we were right in 2017" or you can't do that. I have therefore given a very specific answer to that point. If you ask me, is migration not an issue at all or not a theme? Absolutely not. Of course, that is very important, because I see what the big problems are. That is my answer to your question. I take the space to say: if we want more transparency, if we want to know exactly what we have said or what the backgrounds are, then we must also be really curious about how something is meant or what question you have answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	That is why we are asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	So I appreciate your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. I would like to reverse the same question and perhaps ask it again, or let me put it this way: another question, from a different position. If, after this debate today, you do not come to the conclusion that you have the confidence in working with Mr Rutte, do you, as GroenLinks, have the courage or the will to see whether it can be done in a more unconventional way, without the VVD, on the left?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Baudet, who would like to begin with a brief statement, a brief explanation. I just understood that from Mr Van Haga. I would like to ask the Members of the House a few questions. We get reactions from people watching the debate that sometimes there is little distance from each other. I would like to call for this to be taken into account when discussing motions for resolutions. That is, I think, a natural bridge to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. The formation soap is slowly becoming inimitable. Those involved bump from nightly chamber debate to sorry press conference, from roads that separate themselves to winking sessions and formation flirting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Baudet, I'm gonna stop you right now. I am going to suspend for a very short time and I would like to speak very briefly to Mr Van Haga and you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u45	I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u46	I shall begin with a brief statement at the request of the President. As far as I know, I don't have a corona. Mr. Chairman. The formation soap is slowly becoming inimitable. The people involved are bumping into the night debate in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u47	I'd really like to get back to the content, but it just got suspended. There will be a statement "to my knowledge I have no corona"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, I don't feel sick in any way. There's nothing to worry about. I was asked if I have corona, but I have no corona!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u49	I think I was still talking. Can we get a little more explanation from what I've been looking at? Is there any suspicion of corona? Has there been a test? What the hell is going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u50	Before Mr Baudet begins, let me explain, because I understand Mr Klaver's reaction. I have received a number of reports that some Members are concerned about this. So I have just been in touch with Mr Van Haga to get an explanation of exactly what is happening. I think that's good. If there's any doubt, we need to clear that up. We agreed that Mr Baudet would explain this. Honestly, I was expecting perhaps a more extensive story to be kept, but this is the conclusion. I think it is important for Mr Baudet to state what concerns some Members. I think it's important to mark that. That's the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u51	I'm feeling good!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u53	I'm just gonna start again, because that beginning always helps. Mr. Chairman. The formation soap is slowly becoming inimitable. Those involved bump from nightly chamber debate to sorry press conference, from roads that separate themselves to winking sessions and formation flirting. More and more Dutch people are done with this. In the latest edition of this soap opera, we heard from the newspaper this morning that some things are apparently never changing.PvdA'er Mariëtte Hamer would be nominated as an informant. This brings us back to the old politics. Four years ago I kept a story at this place.I was just elected at that time that unfortunately is one-on-one applicable to the current situation. The voter spoke on 17 March. We are the 150 Members, the representatives of the people's will. We are sovereign. We represent the sovereignty of the Netherlands. As a chamber, we must give direction to the course of the country. Every time there are 75 plus 1 votes on a subject, we can take a decision on that subject. So we 150 should now take the initiative after the elections, rather than waiting. But what happens all the time is that something is being discussed in back rooms and then communicated to us. At the beginning of this debate there were a number of interruptions. We're running behind the facts. Instead, we should indicate the broad lines of what majorities are for after these elections. On some points, that will be a majority over the left. On other points, that will be a majority on the right. But where those majorities are, first we need to be clear. So we have to do a series of a lot of votes, which shows what majorities exist for in the new Chamber and for which we do not. We are then looking for experts, people from society, on the main lines that support and wish to implement policies. The Court can then really do its job, namely to follow critically or to carry out those lines drawn up in advance on one file on the left, on the other file on the right. This is the way democracy should work. That is how it was developed in our Constitution. This is how it developed in the nineteenth century. Everyone's in. We will regularly adopt positions that are not for a majority, but there are a number of points where there is a majority. So you're avoiding the fact that in those coalition agreements, in those backrooms, you're gonna strip everything out of each other and you're gonna have some kind of lame bite left over, just like we've always seen in the past few years. Now exactly the opposite is happening. We're doing exactly the wrong thing right now. Mariëtte Hamer is about to go into the back rooms. That's where the formation's gonna take place. The VVD is going to turn in a little to keep the PvdA inboard, and D66. That's the kind of game they play. It's like a quartet, like, "can I have that one?" And "can I have that from you?'. And all the election promises, all the sharp edges of the party programs, which may be for majorities, are cut off. Not the content for which majorities are for, but the cartel interests and party interests are thus being led. We, as representatives of the people, are going to be faced with a close-knit coalition agreement, regardless of any fine words about a thin coalition agreement, an agreement in principle, and so on. I don't believe any of that. It's just gonna be the same old politics again. So I say, like four years ago, this is a party cartel and we have to break that cartel. We can do that as a room. It is time for a rebirth of the democratic system. It's not complicated. It's the law of the state, isn't it? Today, the Chamber can decide to become a real counterpower, to break this cartel game and to take the initiative in democracy back to itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mr President. It's a historical formation, not a positive one. After the election, we saw that the foreman of the VVD lied to the Chamber. If that were the first time that this happened to him, then perhaps the situation would have been different. But of course that was not the case. We saw a pattern there. He even existed to get the trick out of the closet again to see if everyone fell for it that he hadn't remembered. The Chamber has had consequences for that. The Chamber also said, "What are we going to do now? We need to form and we need to have an information process. That's what we do on two levels. Yes, we do appoint an informant, but he has to investigate explicitly whether there is confidence or whether trust can be restored." Mr. Chairman. I believe that we cannot ignore this in this debate. We have seen that the "here separate our ways," which sounded so manly from Mrs Kaag's mouth, has nevertheless resulted in "to choose the flight forward." To point out all the problems in the country, I find no convincing argument to say: then we will form with the VVD of Rutte. Those problems need to be solved. But it is precisely for this reason that we cannot afford to form a cabinet that Dutch people cannot trust, with a prime minister, if this plan continues, which does not respect the Constitution by itself and which does not, by itself, show the courage and honour to treat the Chamber with the respect it deserves. We're the highest organ. We are here on behalf of the people, whose problems we all have to solve. If, therefore, you must learn, dear friends, by saying 'I would like to hear this from Mr Rutte, because then we can go a step further', if you just have to ask that question, it shows that the limit, the lower limit that we should be monitoring here as a Lower House, as a parliament, has gone quite far out of sight. I would therefore like to call on my colleagues not to fall for this. We can and we need to talk about the big problems, but the first condition to get out of the crisis is that we have a cabinet that we can rely on. I would like to quote Mr Rutte at Nieuwsuur: 'A Prime Minister who wants to lead the Netherlands must be a Prime Minister who knows Dutch people: it may be difficult measures that are being taken, but here the truth is being told'. People should be able to say: I am convinced and can trust that here the country's importance, the importance of the citizens, the importance of future generations and the importance of a living earth are paramount, and not the political importance of someone who wants to become the longest-standing Prime Minister of the Netherlands or the party interest of the VVD. People need to be able to rely blindly on that. That's just not going to happen. So I agree with the informant's proposal to talk to each other about the major problems and the solutions to them, but first we have to note that we can only do so with parties and foremen or women who respect the rule of law, and that we have confidence in them. For the Party for Animals, that question has not been answered positively. We are not impressed by the signs to point to the great problems in the country. That's part of losing sight of the border that we should have guarded a long time ago. The fact that the climate problem has not been solved means that the Netherlands does not comply with the rule of law. The fact that the nitrogen problem has not been solved means that the Netherlands, under Mr Rutte's leadership, simply ignores international law. Then we have not even discussed the whole reason why we are debating this in this way at all, namely the surcharge scandal. Mr. Chairman. We can't go on. We can't move on unless there's trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, a word of thanks to the informant. Thanks for his work and also thanks for his encouragement to focus on what we have been called and chosen to serve people. We are in a crisis of confidence, with, above all, a lack of public confidence in their own government. Perhaps that is because that government often does not trust its own citizens and bases its policy on mistrust. That's gotta be different. Madam President. When VVD foreman Rutte walked into Nieuwsuur's studio on Monday, parents of the surcharge affair walked out of the room after they had told an impressive story here. Maybe we'd rather talk about a newscast here today, but it's about those parents, of course. It is about the injustice that has been done to them and about all those other people who really need it from that government and to whomever needs to be done justice. More than 150 years ago, the young democracy of the United States was much worse than ours today, but in our case too, there is much at stake here and there. This was expressed in an impressive way by Abraham Lincoln in his short speech at Gettysburg. There and then Lincoln expressed the hope that "in this nation, under God, there would be a new freedom and that the government of the people, by the people and for the people, would continue to exist." What is at stake here is not so much a government of or by the people as we have just had elections, and we will have to do so, even though Mr Wilders would like to see new elections, but a government for the people, a serviceable government, a government that is not in the execution of its own citizens but next to them and which is always there for them. We are now going from crisis to crisis: banks, economy, refugees, climate, nitrogen, corona. Each time we give the impression that we can fix it, but we rarely make it happen. With all our good intentions, we are making life more and more complicated for people who are stuck in the forest of our rules made up here in the Chamber. For every incident and every risk, we come up with a new rule. Also as a chamber we could do self-reflection, as the informant rightly writes. "It seems," he writes, "that confidence and moderation have made way for distrust and escalation. Accountability questions are replaced by culprit search and error learning is replaced by checkout." That should give us some thought here. Madam President. The rule of law must be strengthened, with a human dimension and access to justice. The government must return to service, where there is never a wrong point of contact and every citizen can always turn to a civil servant with real eyes and ears, and where every government letter has a name of an official with his or her contact information. Such a simple thing alone would really make a difference. And we must get to work on the great challenges of our time. That is why the Christian Union Group supports the proposal of the informer to now focus on a short-term recovery plan and an agenda and a new long-term social alliance. This involves strengthening the rule of law and access to justice. It is about strengthening the execution and handling of the human dimension. This is a recovery plan for education, care, living and working, and a reform of a tax system without surcharges. Finally, three questions to the informant. The informant has spoken to a lot of people. I was pleased that he spoke not only to people from this Chamber but also to people from outside, but he did not speak to representatives of young people, such as Coalition-Y. Earlier, that was a wish expressed by the Chamber. Wouldn't it be good to do that next time? Two: how exactly does the informant see the relationship between what should be done by a outgoing cabinet in the short term and what should be taken up by a new cabinet in the longer term? Could he be more specific about that? Three: why does his report not mention the reform of a tax system without surcharges as one of the biggest challenges? For my group, for our group, that is at least one of the major challenges. Madam President. In any case, the Christian Union Group is prepared to make our contribution here from the Chamber to the post-crisis recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. It's his maiden speech. As usual, there will be no interruptions. There is another one who will have her maiden speech; that is Mrs. Den Haan. I suggest that at the end of the first parliamentary term we have a moment to congratulate each other before Mr Tjeenk Willink takes the floor. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink for the opinion and the report. Mr. Chairman. Do we even see it happening? British and French Navy ships impress each other in the Channel. Chinese hack our universities and companies. And all over Europe, parliaments are struggling with their controlling role. The world is watching us, Europeans, fight each other, while we are now facing these twenty-first century challenges: climate change, the fourth industrial revolution and growing social inequality. And that while a pandemic has controlled our lives for a year and a half. Mr. Chairman. Throughout Europe, voters are driven into the hands of politicians like Orbán. These are politicians who limit the freedom of journalists and universities and destroy the independent position of judges. Instead of showing courage, we see that our leaders are only getting more scared: afraid of the other, of the other's ideas and of cooperation with the other. That's been going on for a while, and that's exactly why I'm standing before you right now. Mr. Chairman. In the Brabant Knegsel, where I come from, it was not every day about Jean Monnet or Robert Schuman. But I learned at the local football club and at the music association the value of playing together and playing fair. Like many other Europeans, I have been worried about Brexit, AfD and Le Pen in recent years. It was time for an alternative: a European party across borders. It is now time to build an effective and decisive European Union, which works for everyone. Volt's logic is unbearable: cross-border problems call for cross-border solutions. Mr. Chairman. I notice that this house can be extremely inwards from time to time and that we pretend we can solve everything ourselves in the Netherlands. While we could learn so much from other Europeans: from education in Finland, from the digital government in Estonia or from citizens' forums in Ireland. Volt cannot escape the impression that talking constantly about trust, the emergence of new confidence can now get in the way. That is why I ask Mr Tjeenk Willink to analyse the debate we are having today. I would also like to ask how we are finally going to take that step towards the real solution that you have in mind. Mr. Chairman. For weeks now, my group has been wondering what is the most just route out of this swamp in The Hague. Because, yes, we want to build a governance culture that does justice to the victims of the premium affair. The PM's self-reflection is not yet convincing. Where is the creativity, the vision and the will to really create something new? Apparently, it's up to us to take Rutte to that new policy. It is as Mr Tjeenk Willink wrote it in the report: 'If the auditor does not change, the audited will remain the same'. Or like Einstein said, "If you do what you did, you get what you got." Much has been said about power and counterpower, but we are the power. It's time to talk about these new ideas. Mr. Chairman. There's so much to achieve. Let us build a Europe of peace and well-being, in which we celebrate our diversity and differences as a way of life, and through which the rest of the world is inspired. Let us build a Europe where we enjoy the diversity of culture and beautiful natural areas, alongside thriving cities with universities where top research and innovation take place. Mr. Chairman. If we use the wealth of ideas of 450 million Europeans, there will be no limit to what we can achieve with each other. Volt therefore calls on the parties to formulate a vision of European cooperation in the coalition agreement and to reflect on the conference on the future of Europe. Because if you want a general government agreement, the agreement will soon have a vision for the European Union. It is only at European level that we can draw up these guidelines. And in addition: dare to renew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you, Mr. Dassen, for your lovely maiden speech. Soon you will receive the congratulations of the colleagues. Very nice. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr President, thank you and thank you from my group to Mr Tjeenk Willink for his work. Until next time, let's just say. Mr. Chairman. Last week we commemorated the murder of Pim Fortuyn. On 6 May it was exactly 19 years since he was killed at the Media Park. I liked reading the following sentence in your final report: the government must do what it says and say what it does. I think the cry for political change is a posthumous, chamber-wide appreciation of his plea of that time. You knew Fortuyn, too; I know that. You knew him well. I'm glad that can be remembered. He said: "Policy has become a self-contained business, with its own agenda, its own dynamics, its own problems, its own discussions and, last but not least, its own language. And the citizen goes his own lonely way in the maze of rules and bureaucratic arrangements." According to Pim Fortuyn in the book No civil servants, from 1991. JA21 has already asked for a debate with this informant on 20 April. We said that you were out of line, because the mission was very clear: how do we restore the broken trust caused by Mr Rutte? See motion of censure and motion of censure. But instead of an operation called "restoring trust," all kinds of people came to you and we could come to you with topics that we wanted to deal with. But I don't think that's how it works. The big difference between Mr.Tjeenk Willink and JA21 is that we think you should regain trust through recognition, sincere sense of guilt and a clear package with lessons learned. We have not seen anything of this from Mr Rutte's side, not even in Nieuwsuur. We would like to continue constructively with this formation as a new party in the Chamber, but for JA21 there is still a big bump over the carpet. Mr. Chairman. What a lot of people in the Netherlands are worried about and what they are worried about is the composition of the new cabinet. In March, the Netherlands opted for a certain direction, to the right, but what threatens is a cabinet with a left-wing signature. GroenLinks has lost big and the PvdA has nine seats left. Those are the facts. But I see now that Mrs Hammer is being presented. If a cabinet comes over the left via her, then I think that is a choice that will increase disbelief in politics rather than reduce it. Mr. Chairman. All this does not alter the fact that I think it is a fine piece by Mr Tjeenk Willink. There are some very sensible observations in that report. The only problem is that the major issue has been put away, namely the Rutte method which has been used over the last ten years and which has become a closed political-bureaucratic complex. Mr. Chairman. At JA21 we believe in a different and healthier culture here at the Binnenhof. The Remkes Committee has already said that if the behaviour is not adjusted, more voters will drop out. JA21 therefore wants a normal and respectful handling of critical MPs, more openness, more professionals in the departments and less thinking in contrasts, such as: everything of the coalition is wrong or everything of the opposition is wrong; are we scoring for a few retweets or do we want to troubleshoot; are we driving the Binnenhof or are we driving the country? In addition to the introduction of more direct democracy and binding referendums, we also want to introduce a right to challenge. We also want an opportunity for a recall for residents who make good proposals. After 100 years, it really is high time for concrete adjustments to our parliamentary democracy. Mr. Chairman. The interview reports have been made public, including on a proposal from our group. That's good. It is now clear that BE1, DENK and Volt JA21 exclude cooperation in advance. It is not entirely clear from the report why they are doing so, but we find it extremely indecent to throw parties away in this way. Excludement is apparently the new connection. Mr. Chairman. Eight out of ten Dutch think that we politicians are too busy with ourselves. Let's get that through our heads. So we are also looking for substantive cooperation, the content on which we have all been elected. Our three main lines are clear: a brake on migration, an end to priceless climate policy and European moderation. I also found the word "reason" several times in the final report, so that is what you are talking about. We are in favour of European moderation. I think that we in the House of Representatives should get to work on this very quickly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So much for my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tjeenk Willink for his work as an informant. He's picked up some tricky buttons. He also designed a time of reflection and reflection. This has meant that the thread of the formation process can be picked up again today. The SGP believes that speed is needed in the formation process, given the issues we are facing. That is why I also sympathise with the Kaag/Rutte motion, which says: look at the question of who with whom at the next stage, so which parties want to go further with each other on the basis of the substantive exploration. I would also like to hear Mr Tjeenk Willink's reaction on that point, because he was actually asking explicitly to keep these issues apart. I have a second question for Mr Tjeenk Willink. It's inspired by the hassle of the net, so what about the name that's being proposed? I noticed that until now it was the practice that in the final report of the explorer or the informant the name of another informant was already mentioned. That is actually something else than Mr Rutte just suggested. In this respect, however, it is understandable that there has been some confusion, because that is actually a break with the way things have been up to now. So I was wondering whether that was a deliberate or unintended innovation in this final report, because this raises some questions about this process. Mr. Chairman. In the wave movement of time there is a wide desire for more dualism between Chamber and Cabinet. There should be more room for the participation of ministers in the government programme and for the involvement of the House of Representatives, including those who are not at the formation table. There must also be a less detailed coalition agreement and not everything must be regulated in the weekly coalition consultation. The SGP supports this. The time is also right for that movement. I think we all see that. I'll add a "but" to this. Let us also learn from the past, because the more monistic development of the past decades is not only the result of unthinking, let alone evil will. Sometimes there were even good reasons for this alignment. In 2002, it was also widely announced that it was due to end the Torentjes consultation, the coalition consultation. And yet it came again! And when, in the Rutte II cabinet, the government agreement of PvdA and VVD was adjusted by constructive opposition parties on all kinds of points in order to get a majority in parliament, many in the country suddenly complained not about suffocating government agreements, but about the nasty uncertainty that prevented citizens and businesses from knowing what they were up to. I would just like to say that the pursuit of a change of course is certainly useful and valuable, but if we realise that, after some adjustments, the state of salvation does not suddenly emerge, it will prevent disappointments and new defeats of confidence. We must continue to seek the balance in the mixed, monist, dualist system. Mr. Chairman. There is still an important reason not to have excessive expectations of the formation process and to expect everything from that process of government formation, because rightly Mr Tjeenk Willink also underlines in his report that there is work to be done for the Chamber. Not in endless self-sustaining or desperate calls for a real reduction in the number of motions to be tabled, but in a self-conscious, practical and concrete effort to strengthen, on the basis of all the reports that are already there, such as those of the Remkes State Commission and the Temporary Commission for Implementing Organisations, the exercise of the tasks by the Parliament itself, legislative, controlling and representative of the people, with a view to the citizen in the trouble that sometimes gets stuck in the maze of committees and bodies that should help him. I would also mention better parliamentary scrutiny of the Constitution, more attention to its implementation and a strong role for the Committees of Parliament. For Parliament too, there is still a world to win the strengthening of tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by thanking Mr Tjeenk Willink for his energy and his commitment. It was, as he said, a little shabby to be able to reach a 79-year-old, but then he is seriously failing himself, because I think he has done an excellent job. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte has done it anyway, within a few weeks of a dark political life on a thread to a sunny future in Presidential State. And he just did it here laughing; he already told us what he was going to do, namely: the Chamber can do whatever it wants, but then Mrs Kaag will table a motion with me, and then we will take the next step. But let's not forget why we're standing here. 'Cause what's the deal? We do have a huge problem. We have a prime minister who lied to Parliament. A prime minister who sees the House of Representatives as a serious obstacle to the exercise of his power. A Prime Minister who does not back down to intimidate and sensitise critical MPs in order to be able to proceed freely. To ensure that tens of thousands of parents and children have been wronged, discriminated against, acted unfairly and violated laws. As a result, lives have been destroyed, children taken from parents and people have also committed suicide. This Rutte holds the Netherlands in a stranglehold. I note that this has hardly led us to take a step towards creating a new cabinet in the last eight weeks. And that's when the need is hard. We have a corona crisis, an equivalence crisis, but also a social crisis. Meanwhile, Mark Rutte comes up with one empty promise after another. In Rutte's view, this should be done to ensure that the law is accessible. In the last ten years, he has skilfully demolished access to that right for the most vulnerable. The lawyers didn't want to talk to the cabinet anymore. They were tired, they were burnt out, they weren't happy anymore to go into consultation with Sander Dekker who sat there on behalf of Rutte as a crumbling of the rule of law. Totally unbelievable. I have worked very hard with a number of colleagues, Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing was possible and now it is possible, because it is about the political future of Mark Rutte, and then everything can be done. The Prime Minister also said that he wanted to set up a club to sit between implementing organisations and citizens. We've had these agencies for decades. The problem is that Rutte has cut these agencies off for years and hasn't done anything with their advice. The Personal Data Authority: understaffed. The Ombudsman: need more money. The Human Rights College: too little capacity. In 2017, the Ombudsman presented the report "No Powerplay but Fair Play," in which citizens had to be compensated because of the unrelenting Tax Administration. And what did Rutte do with that report? It disappeared in his desk drawer. Rutte is called the law and the bodies that protect citizens in those ten years hollowed out and skillfully dismantled and now we have to believe that he is suddenly putting the human dimension first. Totally unbelievable! Rutte who is addicted to power in The Hague and not but doesn't realize that he himself is quitting the country. That's the problem, Mr. Chairman. That's why we can't get through. Then there are two choices. Or we continue with the play as we have seen it in the past few days, with D66 leader Sigrid Kaag in the leading role, who is tabling a motion of censure against Rutte, says that their paths separate at least in Dutch, in English it turned out that something else was going to happen and says that she would resign in Rutte's position. But Kaag has a special gift: she can see things that others do not see. The Jomanda of the Binnenhof. For example, she was the only Rutte to see good steps taken in restoring that confidence. No one else saw it. And Kaag knows like no other the art of slow turning. After a tricky ritual The Hague dance she slowly but surely more and more moves to Rutte's lap. I have said before: D66 makes Rutte Prime Minister of this country as in the past four years. Anything for power. Sigrid Kaag is nothing but Rutte. There is only one conclusion: The Netherlands can only really go further and can only really change if Rutte steps aside. Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion and I understood that a number of colleagues do not need a second term; at least I do not. If you'll allow me, I'll file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u66	Let me look at my fellow Members to see if there is any objection. There's no objection to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the light of, inter alia, the case of increases in public confidence and strengthening the role of the Chamber as a counterpower to the government, it is an urgent task;]] [[noting that Mark Rutte spoke in a way about critical MPs with whom he suggested that they should be put out of play and that he thereby undermined the controlling function of the House of Representatives;]] [[Whereas this process has seriously damaged confidence in Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte and between the Chamber and Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte;]] [[whereas Mark Rutte, both as Prime Minister and as chairman of the VVD's political group, has now had six weeks to reflect on radical ideas for a new administrative culture, but unfortunately has not gone beyond a number of loose blanks with little conviction;]] [[Notes that VVD leader Rutte, who also plays the role of Deputy Prime Minister, has not at present sufficiently demonstrated that he can, with credibility and authority, lead an administrative culture in which openness and transparency are central,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u68	Would Mr Azarkan share his ideas with us, at least perhaps the first step in this direction, as regards our administrative culture and the issues of power and opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you so much for this question. First of all, that means that when MPs ask questions, they just get honest answers. This means that when Members of Parliament ask critical questions, they are not dismissed as a problem, as Mr Omtzigt said, but as an addition to parliamentary control which is important. That means that if we have agencies, High Colleges of State, which we ask to be between citizens and government and which come with a critical report, which states that tens of thousands of citizens have been ground up and that they have to be compensated, we do not put that in a drawer but that we look seriously at it. That we restore our institutions and access to justice. And that we are not going to triage here, as the VVD suggests, with a few people to determine whether people have access to justice if they have little money. That's not the governance culture I advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's a summary of your first term. I understand all that, but my question was another one. There is still something more going on, namely also structurally separate from Mark Rutte. You are trying to get me out of this motion and the VVD will probably vote against it, but I was just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u71	Probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u72	What, apart from Mark Rutte as regards Mr Azarkan, is going to change in the administrative culture in the Netherlands? Or does he make me so important that everything is connected to me? I think that's too much honor. So, apart from the person of myself, what should change in that culture as we've had it in the past ten, twenty years? Between the Chamber and the Cabinet, in the position of the Chamber itself, in the relationship between execution and our large executives and the citizen, but also for professionals, in care, in education? What's gonna change there? What are the first indications of thinking on these points in Mr Azarkan's DENK party?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u73	When I arrived at Mr Tjeenk Willink the second time, I had the impression that we were working very hard together to restore that confidence in the State, that confidence in the government. The fact is that we have a Prime Minister here who has been lying and who has spoken in a way about MPs who simply undermine the role of the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. I don't have a problem here. My problem is that in the last four and a half years I have worked for Piet Snot occasionally in this Chamber, together with many colleagues. If you would like to work on a different administrative culture, take MPs seriously. Take the ideas mentioned by Mr Klaver seriously. This means that if we ask questions, we will not be sent into the forest and that there will not be any political considerations to ensure that you do not answer honestly. It means that speaking the truth is not an option, as under Rutte, but that this is just the line and the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u74	It is clear that after a long period of hesitation, Mr Azarkan has decided not to go on with me. When I listen to him like that, I'm his greatest blessing. Suppose I quit, he won't be able to point to me at what goes wrong. He really should come up with ideas, apart from Rutte, about what needs to change in the governance culture. Then there is an unfathomable depth of emptiness left, because there is not a beginning of an idea of what else needs to change, except "Rutte must go." But there's more going on in The Hague, I think. If Mr. Azarkan puts on such big pants here and finds a pants he is leading a serious party, can I ask him to reflect on that issue separately from my person? But he doesn't. It's just that Rutte has to go, and then everything's fixed. I wish it were that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u75	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u76	I think I have indicated that I am in favour of transparency. That means that I think that Members of Parliament, if they ask questions, should simply get a straight answer. That's a change. If Mr. Rutte leaves, that's gonna change. I am not in favour of personal policy ideas. We have a prime minister here who's been... Under that mom, for example, he did not want to share the memo-Palms with this Chamber. There are MPs here who work very hard to get the bottom stone up, but that's just limited. We have to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group for her maiden speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to Mr Tjeenk Willink for the nice talks and the fine report. It's my maiden speech, and that's why I'd like to share something that drives me personally. We're getting older. We'll stay healthy for longer. That is good, but that, especially in view of demographic developments, something has to be done in the Netherlands to make it possible to get older well with each other is more than clear to me. That is why I asked Mr Tjeenk Willink to include as one of the priorities in his letter older people's policies. I would remind you of the report of the 2005 Committee on Older People's Policy, which begins with the fact that ageing is not a disaster or a threat, but rather a political and social challenge. Challenges that still exist today. Older people's policies have nothing to do with age in the first place, because age as a distinguishing criterion is starting to lose weight. When are you old? At 60, your 70th or your 80th? Apart from age, the target group "older" is very diverse. This diversity will only increase over the next few years. It is therefore better to call older people's policies "generation policy." As far as generation policy is concerned, the same Committee on Older People's Policy formulated a number of key themes, with 33 recommendations. They still haven't been realized yet, but we're 16 years away. At the moment half of all adults in the Netherlands are 50-plus. Generation policy must now, as far as I am concerned, become part of the coalition agreement. We must ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can age well. The beauty is that many solutions for the elderly often work out well for young people. Think, for example, of the housing market, which is locked. When you invest in elderly housing, homes are released for start-ups and families. Building for old is the solution for young. This often means that older people are the solution and not the problem, as is often said and thought. Mr. Chairman. I'm proud to be here as a representative of the people. In this way I can work 100% for the conditions that are necessary to get older in the Netherlands. That takes room to debate each other. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there will be a general government agreement and perhaps even a minority cabinet. We have been talking to each other for some time now about power, opposition, a different administrative culture and trust, or rather: the lack of trust that many here lived. With a coalition agreement on the main lines, we will have to go much deeper with each other. And with a minority cabinet, the coalition should also seek more content cooperation with various parties from the opposition. Depending on the subject, these will always be different parties. Only then will there be cooperation, dualism and dialogue on content. And then there is the fact that in the next four years all voters will be able to see that their votes are being heard. But that can only be done if there is a healthy basis of trust. When I was in high school, my father taught me a lesson. He said, "You can hold on to your trust and leave it to the other person for a long time to prove whether he is worthy of your trust." But there's always something going on in that relationship that keeps you doubting. That relationship is always shaky. You can also give your trust by being open and vulnerable. With this you build credit towards each other and are also more willing to give the other another chance. Here we can choose the way in which we will work together. But it's important to realize that whatever way you choose, you can always be disappointed. That has often happened to me, also recently. Disappointment, broken faith. And yet I choose to give confidence again, because I assume that we are all doing our work here from a certain ideology, from passion and from the will to serve citizens in the Netherlands. Mr Tjeenk Willink also wrote it in his report: anyone who preaches a different style of administration must rely on trust. I give it to all of us very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan, for your maiden speech. You, too, will be able to receive a number of congratulations at the end of the first term, before Mr Tjeenk Willink gives an explanation. I shall now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB for her first term. Mrs. Van der Plas is waiting for her print. It happens. Go ahead, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you. Mr President, best citizens of the Netherlands and, of course, especially Mr Tjeenk Willink. Thank you very much for your report on your findings. In this report, BBB has put forward a number of proposals to create a new administrative culture, such as, for example, the juxtaposition of political groups in this Chamber. I find it very cozy between the groups of JA21, the Forum for Democracy and the PVV, but perhaps it would also be good to put the unusual suspects side by side. For example, I often disagree completely with Mrs Ouwehand or Mr Klaver. But who knows, if we as unusual suspects are closer together, we might be able to learn a few things from each other. I am sure that Mr Klaver and Mrs Ouwehand will still have much to learn in the field of rural areas, farmers, fishermen and hunters. And maybe there's something for me to learn. For example, how much of the agricultural land is now really suitable for agriculture? I would like to say a few things about the new governance culture and the parties that are about to form the new coalition. I want to give them a list and ask them to think about this. The theory first. One. The citizen deserves better. Two. The government is there for citizens and not the other way around. Three. We need a new governance culture. Four. We need new leadership. Five. Restoring trust between citizen and government. Six. The Constitution has no parties, only representatives of the people. Seven. People's representatives vote without burden. Then the practice. One. The citizen deserves better, but does not get better as a cabinet and Chamber do not dare to opt for radical changes. For example, BBB has proposed to Mr Tjeenk Willink to allow pop-up ministries, or mini-steries. Mini-steries that will deal purely and exclusively with one case for a period, with a dedicated minister, for example a mini-sterie of earthquake damage, or a mini-sterie of surcharge scandal. Two. The government is there for citizens. Practice: citizens are still not taken seriously. For example, they are called "wappies," they are still deceived, destroyed, lied to and/or belittled. Think of Alphen aan den Rijn, for example. "You are not alone," said Mr Rutte, but in the meantime the victims have been waiting two years for money to come. Three. The governance culture. It's just words. Motions that want to take concrete steps towards a new governance culture are rejected. It is said that we always do so here. Few people wonder why we don't try anything else. Creative motions are rejected, not least by parties who call for a new culture of governance. There are still discussions in back rooms, as it turned out today. And we still have to read in the media what the Cabinet is planning to do this week. Four. New leadership. The established politics continues to fish in the old pond. With all due respect to Mr Tjeenk Willink, whom I hold very high regard, he himself called the choice for him as an informant "a choice of poverty." Five. Trust. In practice, there are numerous examples: surcharges, earthquake damage, but also the thousands of farmers who were accused as calf fraudsters, while no investigations had yet been carried out, and later it became clear that the whole fraud still did not leave any bread crumbs. Six. No parties. So there are, because that is what we see every day in the group and coalition discipline. I even see chief whips walking in here to check whether there is a vote in accordance with group discipline. Seven. No trouble. We have put forward a proposal not to have the motions rejected by the cabinet, because this could be interpreted as hidden voting advice by coalition groups. That motion was rejected by all parties who want a new administrative culture, except BBB and the PVV. Mr. Chairman. We have to catch the cow by the horns. We have to form. The Netherlands needs a strong cabinet, a cabinet that doesn't think out of the box, but a cabinet that thinks without box. In the East, we say: take that trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A society that works for everyone. A society based on equality, justice and solidarity. That is the dream on which my party is built and the dream I think I share with Mr Tjeenk Willink. That's what I'm saying on the basis of our fine conversations. Thank you for that, Mr Tjeenk Willink, and thank you for your clear report. BE1 sees a society that is fair and social, in which differences are seen as valuable and in which everyone can actually participate. A society in which the majority takes account of the minority. A society in which everyone is equal and can count on compliance with Article 1 of our Constitution is in front of us. A society in which our schools, healthcare institutions and the Tax Administration do not distinguish on the basis of gender, ethnicity, surname, sexual preference, religion or otherwise. But, Chairman, there is a ghost in The Hague. And no, it is not the ghost of socialism, quite the contrary. It is the slim shadow of the institutions that were once intended to function in the interests of all of us. Unfortunately, they haven't done that in a long time. A political breakdown ideology plagues The Hague. It is the ideology of ethnic profiling tens of thousands of parents. It is the thought of which one lies awake at night in Groningen, under the sound of the squatting houses. It is the belief that the gap in society continues to grow: the gap between rich and poor and between the norm and anyone who should not belong to it. Yesterday, for example, I was in this same place to request a debate on the inequality of power in our country. Not entirely surprising were the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union and D66 who torpedoed the conversation about one of the greatest challenges of our time, which was also regularly appointed by Mr.Tjeenk Willink. It confirms that the dogma that prevails here should not even be tormented. More than just a culture of governance, today we are talking about the deeper political choices of our national government. It is those choices that form the common thread through this formation. Those old political choices and roads must no longer be allowed in the Netherlands. We have a lot of exciting debates here. The stage holds the breath for a moment. The journalist has something to write, but after a lot of hollow words about separate ways, they find each other again and several starting points the board parties knock each other on the shoulder again for their excellent game. And the outcome is certain: the show must go on. This old politics of course did not just disappear, because let us not forget that administrative cultures do not exist in a vacuum. They are maintained by every ruler and every representative of the people who is allowed to call themselves MPs here today. I have said it before: there is no reason for us as a Chamber to trust that the old administrative culture can be broken by those who created it. My colleague Dassen said it before: if you do what you always did, you get what you always got. And so today I call on this Chamber once again: we are choosing a new administrative culture, and that means breaking with the ideology of which Mr Rutte is the figurehead. During the last election campaign we carried out a very clear triggering slogan: speak up, confess color. I would also like to put this question to all Members of this House. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u84	The analysis is, of course, rather thin, namely that my departure would solve all the problems with the administrative culture. Let's just assume that there are still some problems. What analysis does Mrs Simons make? What are the ideas of her party about power and counterpower, the administrative culture, the issue of the citizen and the government, the functioning of the Chamber as an institution and the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet? There's got to be more to it than making Rutte important and saying "he has to go." There may also be a somewhat deeper analysis with the corresponding proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u85	I have just been telling Mr Rutte what the answer to that question is. It is of course sympathetic or it may seem nice to say that it is MPs who make Mr Rutte important, but it is especially Mr Rutte who once again makes himself important. Breaking with this culture I said it before is breaking with an ideology of which you have become the figurehead. I do not believe that you or yours can restore democracy, culture and the rule of law here. You are asking me for concrete ideas. I will come to that in a moment, but I would like to say first of all that liberal discourse, conducted under your guidance, Mr Rutte, cannot bear the light of day. Last Monday I was in one room with only a very small part of the supplement parents. Most people don't know me as overemotional. You don't think so. You'll soon find me irritated. But I've been crying in that room. I cannot understand with all my heart what has been done to these parents and how there may be people who think that after this debacle they still have the right to lead an organization responsible for that suffering. Having said that, you also ask me for concrete ideas. What do you think of a constitutional court? As a result, for example, the laws and policies, which led to these great dramas, could have been tested on the front, so that we did not have to glue the shrapnel afterwards. What do you think of the idea of allowing human rights treaties to be guiding and to be effective in Dutch law? What do you think of the idea of better protecting whistleblowers? And what do you think of the simple idea of listening when the Ombudsman comes up with a report? What do you think of perseverance for an organisation like the Ombudsman? I have more ideas and I dare to call them "radical" myself, because they deal with the problems, Mr. Rutte, from the root. That is the meaning of the word "radical," derived from the word "radix." You'll know better than I do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall then suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that Mr Dassen and Mrs Den Haan can be congratulated by their colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u87	I would very much like to give the floor to Mr Tjeenk Willink for his first term. I hear the bell, so perhaps Mr Tjeenk Willink can wait a moment until all Members have taken their seats. I think we're pretty complete. I call Mr Tjeenk Willink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Madam President. I was invited to this debate as an ex-informer to inform the Chamber, as the Rules of Procedure put it in Rule 11.2, on the progress of the formation of the Cabinet. That's forcing restrictions. That is a pity in a way, because a lot has been said that is worth it. I shall therefore confine myself to answering a number of questions that have been asked. I would like to conclude, if you will allow me, by saying a few words: I will state in a moment why. I would like answers to a few questions that have been asked about what I call 'the method'. This is limited to the question of the group leader of the Christian Union: "Why didn't you invite Coalition-Y? You've talked to so many people, haven't you?" The reason for this is that other group chairmen, Mr Eerdmans, referred to the fact that I was actually speaking to far too many people. That's why I've limited myself to things that can be traced directly to conversations with you. For example, many group chairmen have told me that it is really about trust between government and citizens. That is why I thought it would be good to speak with the director of the SCP and the National Ombudsman. They either have data on this or have to deal with it on a daily basis. In addition, most, if not all, saw transition policy as the first priority; I shall come back to that in a moment. That is why, in my view at least, the question arose: what does the outgoing cabinet still count on? This led to the discussion with the three Ministers of Finance, Economic Affairs and Social Affairs and Employment. What is needed in the short term in order to resolve problems which are already existing and which are hampering economic and social recovery? In my view, this justified the discussion with the president of the ESC and earlier with the director of the SCP. I would have liked to have spoken to the young people too, but I thought it would be even more sensible for them to have the opportunity at a later stage, in which there is still more talk of substance. Once you've stopped by, it's hard to stop by in the next phase. As with everything else, you have to choose the right moment. A second question I have been asked is about trust. That's actually the question that hangs in this room all day long. Some have explicitly asked for it, for example Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Eerdmans, but also others indirectly and in the event of interruption Mrs Ouwehand. Mrs. Marijnissen asked: has the scenario without Mark Rutte been investigated? The answer to that is: no scenario has been investigated, because at the moment it was not about who with whom. That was at the explicit request of the various group chairmen. I have tried to confine myself as scruplely as possible to my task; that of course takes some effort, but nevertheless. Is there trust now? I have made a number of comments about this in the report, namely that there are several elements to be distinguished which will jointly determine that confidence. First of all, most of you have put the emphasis on the substantive agreement on a common approach to the major problems, first and foremost on the policy of transition. That must be demonstrated during formation. In addition, the common willingness to test a different style of administration and to give room for political debate in the Chamber, through a different nature of the coalition agreement, is also an expression of confidence. How far that space goes will have to be demonstrated by the follow-up. The question of trust in persons representing parties is then raised. The view that parties ultimately decide for themselves who may be part of the cabinet to be formed is widely shared, although that does not rule out a common position on the demands of directors. I would like to repeat this, because it could also be a common basis for a cabinet that is also a team. The question of trust in individuals cannot be separated from the context in which individuals perform their duties. After the debate on 1 April, the discussion focused on the office of Prime Minister in the new cabinet. I have noted that three group chairmen, on behalf of their party, exclude support for a new cabinet headed by the outgoing Prime Minister in advance. Three others believe that cooperation with Mark Rutte's VVD is not credible. The rest does not go that far and lets its judgment depend on the contours of the policy to be pursued and/or agreement on the development towards an open governance style and a more dualist relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. And that has to be proved. In addition, there is the question of what a future Prime Minister will give to his office. This will be determined not only by the person of the future Prime Minister, however important, but also by others who play a role in the development of an open administration and a more dualist relationship. The expectations of the Prime Minister in the Chamber, the media and the public also play a role. That is why I have attached Annex 2. That is the context in which we will ultimately have to consider. This context is partly determined by the Chamber itself. In doing so, I tried to identify the elements and the context in which the question of whether sufficient trust exists or can arise between the parties - that was my mission - can ultimately be answered. In a way, it's a misunderstanding, because answering the question of whether there is trust wasn't my job. The assignment was: does it exist now or can it arise again? Of these, I have indicated which elements may be considered as criteria, by the way, on the basis of conversations with you. Because my imagination is great, but your input is more important. In response to the question from the group chairmen of VVD, D66, Christian Union, but also from the group chairman of Volt: how do we get out of this? So that is actually the demand for the transition from crisis to recovery. I will try to explain once again what my reasoning was, because perhaps that answers your question. Almost all the political groups mentioned a way out of the crisis as a priority from the first discussion. But what exactly is meant by "transition" or "restoration policy" is a political choice, on which opinions differ. However, the outgoing cabinet is limited in its political power. At the same time, making these political choices cannot wait for a new cabinet. I share your optimism, of course, about the speed with which the formation will take place from now on, two months after the elections, but I regret to say that I have some experience that this does not mean that it will be quick. And this is becoming increasingly important as society opens up and the economy needs to turn around again. There can be no waiting. Once again, these are political choices. If you wait with that, it would be at the expense of two things. In the case of people at risk of losing their jobs, it is at the expense of moving from work to work and moving from work to further training. Businesses and cultural institutions are at the expense of rebooting and restoring. This transition policy must therefore be a priority in the next phase. That wasn't fought by anyone. I have therefore proposed that the task of the next informant should be to seek broad political agreement for a transition policy with a choice of the subjects to be considered for this purpose in order to get the economy, as well as society back on track. Many have mentioned examples of what could be thought of. I included it in the final report. These are the contradictions in the labour market, the nitrogen crisis, the housing market, the inequality of opportunity in education. But again, that is a political choice that must be made in a subsequent phase. In addition to the input of the parties, the expertise in the departments, existing reports and advice and what is already available can be used, and that is a lot. This transition policy obviously has links with other larger issues, which, in the opinion of the parties who have not excluded each other in possible negotiations on a coalition agreement, should be addressed in broad terms. In the final report, for example, I say to the chairman of the Christian Union Group and the chairman of the Den Haan Group, a number of questions have been raised. In order to make that connection visible, the next informant should also be instructed to define these issues as precisely as possible and to support them with facts, to formulate the objectives to be achieved, with obstacles to achieving them or to resolving issues. So that is also a political choice that must be made in the next phase. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij's question about the last part of the order in the motion that was tabled, because I did not mention that part myself. He asked me how I look at that. I think that is a logical follow-up step and I refer to what my final report says under the phasing-out of the coalition agreement. The motion refers to this final report as a guiding basis for the follow-up. I can imagine that, also out of the desire to make a certain pace, this has been included in the mission. Why didn't you mention a name? asked Mr Van der Staaij. I did give you a profile, because that's common practice. It's not that common, because I remember that informant Schippers made a recommendation in May 2017, but didn't mention a name. To my surprise, even then, I came out myself. I've asked everyone for suggestions, but not everyone had those suggestions ready. These suggestions included a number of times Mrs Hamer. I passed that on, but I didn't think, since not everyone had answered that it was part of my job, except sketching a profile, to mention a name. Apart from the fact that mentioning a name and letting it hang for 14 days is always the best chance to make sure it doesn't. I believe that I have answered the various questions. I'll take a look. Yes, Mr Dassen has asked for the evaluation of this session here, this meeting. I don't know if it's up to me to do that right now. I'm here as an informant. I have listened with a great deal of interest. At the same time, I have had some of the inconveniences that some people have said. That is a bit of what I said in the letter to you, Madam President. How, like the many long debates on introspection, would this happen to people in the country who expect them to have opted for a rapid formation and for a cabinet of any kind, which must take urgent action quickly? That is basically my already existing inconvenience. Madam President. I will conclude, if you will allow me, because today is really the last time that I will be allowed to speak as an ex-informer here in this Chamber. In conclusion, I would like to raise a point that those who know me know is dear to me and concerns me. Over the past 50 years, the functioning of the government has been a recurring theme in all my work. Over the last 35 years, I have seen how that function undermines the democratic rule of law, a self-reinforced process of which we all now experience the consequences. My reflections on this since the 1980s have always been heard especially outside The Hague, among professionals in the workplace. That was much less in The Hague. That is why, for the first time, I recommended to the Chamber in 1985 that more attention be paid to feasibility and implementation. From the difference in perception in The Hague and in the workplace, I learned that the distance between government and citizen in thinking, talking and doing is also a reflection of the distance between politics, the Chamber at the top, and professionals in the workplace, the government in person. As the government usually does not realise enough to be dependent on citizens, the parliament does not realise that it is sufficiently dependent on executive services. The credibility of the legislation adopted here in this Chamber and of the policy adopted here depends on the feasibility on the workplace and the impact on citizens. The systematic neglect of politics, then, is not just about this Chamber, but about politics, the Hague, about the feasibility of legislation and policy and the lack of political interest in the problems experienced by professionals in the workplace, lead to disasters, not only for citizens but also for executive services. These are not just the victims of the child allowance affair and not just the Tax Office. The mistrust, sometimes cynicism, of the performers towards politics is great. This harms the prestige of parliament. As a reliable government is a prerequisite for restoring citizens' confidence, a reliable parliament is a prerequisite for restoring the trust of professionals in the workplace. The human dimension of government action does not come back as long as the political executives continue to regard it as machines that can be switched on and off at will and have to run faster after each incident. Those executive services should also be made possible. I am a passionate defender of parliamentary democracy, and I have become increasingly aware of the essential role played by professionals in the workplace. Parliament will gain credibility if professionals in the workplace are able to provide quality services to people of flesh and blood who are generally trying to do their work in a manner that is not undisputed. Politics has the key to this. The quality of representative democracy and the quality of professionals in the workplace both determine the legitimacy of the government. People's representatives and professionals depend on each other for their own quality and can strengthen each other. More dualism between Chamber and Cabinet cannot be achieved without a better balance between policy and implementation and between The Hague and the outside world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mr. Tjeenk Willink. I would like to see whether all Members' questions to Mr Tjeenk Willink have been adequately answered. I see that's the case. Then I would like to ask Members whether there is still a need for a second deadline. A number of them need it. It's gonna be a small second term. I'm gonna go get the list anyway. I do not think Mr Rutte needs that. Mrs Kaag didn't. Neither does Mr. Wilders. Mr. Hoekstra did. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Hoekstra of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr President, thank you. Thanks again to Mr Tjeenk Willink, who will understand for himself that he has made the chance that he will be back soon. But thank you very much for everything he's said. Mr. Chairman. It was another debate that was not too short. We had already agreed to support Mr Tjeenk Willink's recommendation to move on to the next stage of the formation along the lines of the content. The CDA Group will also support Mrs Kaag's and Mr Rutte's motion. I repeat my plea from the first term, namely that the Chamber must now also continue to solve the social problems. In doing so, the most urgent social challenges must be addressed, as chairman of the CDA Group, by the present outgoing cabinet. Of course, this must be done in conjunction with the Chamber. This is, of course, particularly about what is going on in the economy and in society. This is a joint task, as well as improving the administrative culture. It's not just a new cabinet move. No, the room can take steps of its own. That is why, briefly, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that restoring confidence between citizens and politics is an urgent task, and that proposals for improvement do not have to wait until a new cabinet is in place;]] [[Having regard to the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and in particular the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to the opinion of the Committee ……]] [[Whereas the Court itself has a role to play in restoring confidence;]] [[points out that during this period, the Chamber will work together on a new social contract, which will include at least the following elements:]] [[more serious treatment of legislation and less delusion of the day;]] [[greater awareness of the human dimension of legislation and regulation;]] [[a dual attitude that will contribute to better implementation of legislation and regulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hoekstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u91	I'll give you the motion in a minute. You pointed out to me that my voice might raise the question of whether I also had a corona test. Yes, I did. The results were negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u92	Look, then that's cleared up. I feel like I'm from the Corona Police today. Anyway, the subject is alive, so it's good to clear up a few things. Then I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. It shall waive its second term. Mrs Ploumen also waives her second term. Mr Klaver and Mr Baudet too. Mrs. Ouwehand doesn't care. Then I'll give her the opportunity for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr President. It is our job to unravel where there is confusion and to keep our task here sharp. We have all sworn our allegiance to the Constitution, I repeat. In this whole situation I do notice that cause and effect are sometimes a bit confused. The fact that there is no cabinet now lies with parties who say: we need a cabinet in which we can have confidence? Or is it parties who want to put forward a specific leader, which has, however, caused problems? Of course, there are ideas about a new administrative culture in the Chamber, but it is not the responsibility of this Chamber, which has come up with many proposals over and over again, to help the incumbent outgoing Prime Minister to find out what conditions a cabinet would have to meet if we wanted to have a healthy political culture again. I quote the German journalist Thomas Kirchner, who described it very well as far as we are concerned: 'What danger would there be if we did not act accordingly? People get used to political situations that aren't normal. A prime minister who isn't telling the truth isn't normal. If there is no significant indignation about this, the political culture will erodes. Then voters lose confidence and that is food for the enemies of liberal democracy." Let's not make that mistake. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that citizens should be able to rely on public authorities operating within the limits of the rule of law;]] [[noting that, among other things, the surcharge scandal, the climate judgment and the nitrogen judgment have revealed that this has unfortunately not been taken for granted in the Netherlands in recent years, and that the constitutional information position of the Chamber has also been at stake;]] [[points out that respect for the rule of law is a non-discriminatory condition for the formation of a cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank the informant for his work. He announces that this is his last performance here, but I believe that nobody in the Chamber really wants to accept it and believe it. In any case, the answer does not give any reason to say that this would be enough. So maybe until next time. Sorry, chairman, I don't have the motion I'd like to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u95	We wait patiently. Mr Van der Staaij is already helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u96	I had the list of speakers with me. And to read it to you, that's something. There are people of a certain age who are sharper than one of 51. I have the next motion on the next phase of formation. Earlier, I asked the informant if it would not be good to talk to young people. That would be good. He said, "Let that happen in another period." Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the next phase of the formation, the way out of the crisis will have to be given clear attention and work must be carried out on a vigorous recovery policy;]] [[Whereas it is important to involve young people in this process, because they are strongly affected by this crisis and because it concerns their future;]] [[points out that in the next phase of the formation process, young people and youth organisations such as Coalition-Y should be consulted so that they can discuss recovery policy and other major issues on the table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's all I've got left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u98	Look. Does Mr Dassen still need a second term? No, that's not the case. Mr. Eerdmans does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the wise closing remarks by Mr Tjeenk Willink. I'd like to propose a motion for a total recall. Shall I just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u100	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u101	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in his final report the informant notes a broad desire for a different administrative style;]] [[noting that, in addition to the relationship between the cabinet and the Chamber, this is certainly also about the relationship between the government and the citizen;]] [[noting that the government is often an impenetrable bastion for citizens who show initiative or want to achieve their rights;]] [[Whereas reducing this problem is an important step in improving the relationship between public authorities and citizens;]] [[noting that a number of municipalities have the possibility of a recall, in which citizens are entitled to a second assessment after rejecting a request, without having to initiate an appeal procedure immediately;]] [[Whereas such a scheme may contribute to the confidence of citizens in public authorities;]] [[calls on the government to pursue a national-level recall,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u102	A withdrawal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u103	A retraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u104	... of the decision to respond to a... I think this gives less understanding than the word "recall." Who knows a better translation? It is a revision of a decision on a proposal from residents that is rejected or ignored. They'll get a second chance. Maybe "second chance" is a good term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then I look at Mr Van der Staaij. He also needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the informant for answering the questions and for the important message he gave us. I asked a question about the name of an informant. Mr Tjeenk Willink was very keen to mention one example in which a previous final report did not mention the name of another informant, but that was the only one. In all other cases, it did. In the review of the cabinet formation in 2017, I saw that precisely in that case, the President had gathered all the group chairmen to find out what was going on with the name of an informant. I guess the way things turned out is new after all. As far as the follow-up is concerned, I think it would be preferable to have it either in the final report, in which all the parties were able to express themselves, or in which the President took the initiative to hold all the group chairmen. That is my suggestion for the follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you. When I think of Mr Van der Staaij, I always think he is a kind of Tjeenk Willink. It's pretty safe to have that knowledge in the Chamber, too. I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan. He's giving up. Mrs. Den Haan is gonna get rid of it, too. Mrs. Van der Plas is in need. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. You asked at the beginning not to make a motion with the text'requesting the cabinet', but I am going to do so anyway. I'm just waiting for Mr. Rutte to finish talking. I want to ask if people know who Beppie is. Does anyone know that? Well, Beppie's a big bronze statue at Albert Heijn's head office. I don't know if anyone's ever been in there before. It is an image of a woman with two large, heavy shopping bags and symbolizes the person for whom Albert Heijn does it. That is also literally on the plaque on the image: so that we do not forget who we are doing it for. We also want one of these Beppies, let's call it Boer Burger Beppie, as a working title for this on the Square of the House of Representatives, so that all members of parliament and all employees who walk in the morning see an image that depicts the citizen, with a plaque with the text "Let's not forget who we do it for." So that every day you walk in, you know we're here for this. So we can be reminded of who we work for. If you go to a new governance culture, this could be a first symbolic step. Of course, such an image should not become a million-dollar project, so we propose to spend up to €1,000 on it by making it a student project. €1,000 is also symbolic, because by doing so we give back the €1,000 promised to the citizens, but in the form of an image. So I would like to put a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u109	Can I make you a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u110	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u111	It may also be an appeal to the House of Representatives to do so. We also have an art committee, so it doesn't necessarily need to be asked to the outgoing cabinet. You are referring to your own motion, but I would like to add that it may also be an appeal to the House of Representatives to settle that. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u112	Yeah, you can. I'd like to form that commission. I'd love it if we did something like that, because it really symbolizes who you work for. So it could also be a committee and I would like to be chairman of that committee, because then I am sure that that committee will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u113	I don't want to disappoint you, but there's already an art committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u114	What about a working group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u115	Maybe we're gonna talk about that one more time. Mrs van der Plas has the floor for her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u116	Anyway, let's not dim that too long. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the National Ombudsman the citizen deserves "better" and it appears necessary that the Lower House and Cabinet keep the focus on the interest of the citizen and not on each other;]] [[Asks the Cabinet to commission before 1 September 2021 at the entrance of the temporary Second Chamber, at building B67, and shortly after the renovation on the Square, to put an image that depicts the citizens for whom we should all work, citizens who should always be at the heart of our thinking and action, a picture with a plaque that says "so that we don't forget who we do it for," and to pay up to €1,000 for this in order not to put the citizen at a cost;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u117	I should have done this before. Mr Eerdmans' submission of the motion was quick. I would ask Mr Eerdmans to hold his motion for a week. He referred to a number of successful experiences. I think it is a very interesting idea, but it would be good to have an appreciation of the Minister of the Interior, who is working on a lot of right-to-challenge initiatives at local level. Then we can understand the scope. Bearing in mind not only the wish but also the feasibility and the framework within which this must be done, it is good that we have some advice on this. In principle, I think it is a very interesting idea, which also fits with the D66 spirit. So I'm asking for a week's arrest from backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u118	I'm looking at Mr. Eerdmans. He's okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-12-tweedekamer-7.u119	I will ensure that the remark is passed on to the cabinet so that an explanation and appreciation can be added. Thank you to Mrs Kaag and Mr Eerdmans. That concludes this debate. I propose that we suspend until 5 p.m. so that a voting list can be drawn up. Before we do that, I would, of course, like to thank Mr Tjeenk Willink for all the work he has put into all the negotiations and talks over the past period. I think I can say on behalf of everyone that we are very grateful to him for that. It wasn't the first time in this role for him. It's always very special, but this time I think it was extra special. We have had a nice debate, partly thanks to your reports, all the conversations and effort. I would like to thank you very much for that. Thank you.
