ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the appointment and assignment of the informant. We are holding this debate in one time limit with two minutes' speaking time. Motions may be submitted in the first period. After this debate, we shall vote on it. I give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps first for the administration: we had an informal discussion this morning under your direction. I understand that this will shortly lead to the tabling of a motion by Mrs Kaag of D66. My impression is that this motion is not widely supported, but not by everyone, at least by my group. This offers the opportunity to get the formation process back on track as much as possible. For my part, I have, of course, reflected in detail on what happened here last Thursday and on the motions that have been adopted. There's a lot to say about that. In any case, it can be said that the common thread in that debate was the question of power and counterpower. It is my intention, I hope, not only of me, but of course I am only concerned about my own intention to put this issue on the agenda in the discussions that will be conducted under the guidance of the informant. In the context of restoring confidence between all of us, I think it is appropriate that this important issue should be raised at this stage of formation. I would not argue that we should start talking about all kinds of other political questions now. Maybe that's for later. But I think it would be very useful and sensible to discuss this in the context of restoring confidence and to address such issues as governance, power and counter-power. This includes issues such as: how do you deal with government agreements? How do you deal with the powers of the Lower House? But also: how do we ensure that professionals in our society get the space they need to practice their profession properly? Finally, Mr President, I would like to reiterate my party's support for the motion that is now being tabled and which we discussed informally this morning. The call, at least to myself, is to use the coming weeks to do everything with each other to manage the formation process again and to work on restoring confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Rutte spoke a few times on behalf of the VVD about the restoration of confidence. Without wanting to repeat last week's whole debate, because that is not my intention, is my question to him: the restoration of trust in whom? And for whom? My group, I have also indicated this this morning in the discussions with the chairmen of the political groups, and I believe that it is now time for elections to take place in the light of what has happened. It is not a question of regaining the confidence of Mrs Kaag, Mr Hoekstra or others. In my view, it is a question of restoring the political distrust of the citizen. So it's not the House of Commons, it's the citizen's. In my opinion, it is best to do this by not speaking in all kinds of backrooms with informers, but by asking the electorate again for an opinion on what happened, in order to restore citizens' confidence. I would like to have a reaction from Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	Of course, there have just been elections. A democrat is never afraid of elections. Mr Wilders is not afraid of that and I am not afraid of that. We are always willing to look the voter in the eye. The only question is whether, given the serious crisis in which the Netherlands finds itself, it is wise to issue elections again shortly after the previous elections. I respect Mr Wilders' view, but my approach would be that it would be important, on the basis of the proposal that D66 is going to make today and the process that is contained in it, to win back trust step by step. Of course, that's never just the trust between us. We are all representatives of large parts of our society here, so by definition representing the Dutch people. I think that is the right way forward and that it is wiser than elections now, although I will never run away from them when they are needed. Then we'll go to the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	But that's not true. I'm terrified of something. Something happened after the elections, of course. After last week's debate, we now know that an attempt has been made to sideline an elected representative of the people. We know you lied about that. Of course, that's something new. We didn't know that when we held the election. What I am very afraid of is that the voter's confidence will only be reduced. If you start talking immediately to Mrs Kaag, to Mr Hoekstra and to others, we could come to the conclusion that nothing has really changed and that you are going to talk for as long as you are going to talk for as long as I think it is going to last for a century; that is why I am also going to vote for elections and continue to talk and talk until you are back in a cabinet with Mrs Kaag or Mr Hoekstra or whatever. What if that's what's gonna happen? Then nothing's changed. Then nothing's changed. Last week Mr Omtzigt was sidetracked and you did not speak the truth about it. If you stay where you are, if you start talking and there's another cabinet you're in, nothing's changed. Surely the confidence of that citizen will only be reduced instead of more? Once again, without repeating last week's debate, do you not see that the citizen will have less confidence than more? He thinks, "What happened?" Nothing's gonna change at all. That's why I'm saying, come on, go to that voter, who we're not afraid of either of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	So I didn't remember that text from last week. That's right. I didn't lie about that. It is what it is. But I am not going to convince Mr Wilders of that. But there is no question of sidestepping a Member of Parliament. That is where the list leader of that same party said in the campaign, namely the possibility that that person, that MP, might become minister in a new cabinet. That is what I wanted to say about the facts of the debate last week. In my opinion, the main issue is that of the debate and also of a debate that has been going on for a long time, also affecting the whole horrible file of the child care allowance affair: how do we see things when things go terribly wrong and people are at risk of getting into the wheels of the system? That goes up to and including the big issue, which I briefly summarize in the terms used last week, of power and counterpower. That touches on a very wide range of issues. This raises the question of how we will deal with government agreements in the future and the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. That also affects the position of the Chamber itself. It affects the position of people in the country who, with the police, in care and in all kinds of other places, do important work for us all and the question of how much freedom they have. It also affects, I think, the role of the administrative judge in the Netherlands. It certainly also affects the role of the culture we have in the government and the administration. All such issues need to be addressed. I would argue in favour of it, and I can only speak for myself, given that these are such big issues, it is wise to include them in the conversations that are going to take place with an informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Wilders. You yourself said that there is a danger that we will have another debate last Thursday. That lasted until 3:30. That is why I would like to propose that we ask a maximum of three questions. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But this is about the fundamental question we were talking about this morning. For example, are we going to elections or are we going to continue with an informant? I would like to ask Mr Rutte whether he is the right man to do so in order to restore confidence. Shouldn't that be done with another Prime Minister or VVD? Despite what you're saying, I'm sticking to my position. If in six months' time, if it is going to work; I doubt that a new cabinet will be created and confidence restored, then the voter will see at home that you are allowed to lie, that you will see a representative of the people, but I, and a lot of Dutch people, I think, see it as such that you want to sidetrack or at least look for another function for it, and that there is no consequence, that it is allowed to do so. That has no consequences for Mr Rutte, who has done so. That doesn't increase the voter's confidence, does it? The voter thinks: if I do, I'm gonna get kicked and if Mr. Rutte does, he's still in the place where he was sitting. Trust doesn't grow, does it? You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	That would assume that Mr Wilders is right in his analysis of what happened last week. I just explained that I disagree with that analysis. If he wanted to determine who the leader of the VVD was, he should not have left the group; then he could have taken part in the decision. But since he did, it's not about that. That's all the VVD's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	Last week we had a solid debate here, but also a motion of mistrust which was widely supported by the opposition as a whole. That's not nothing. What has now changed compared to last Thursday is that the Christian Union, through Gert-Jan Segers, has also indicated on the weekends: we no longer see salvation in a cabinet with Mark Rutte. So we are dealing with a whole opposition that says: we have no faith in Mark Rutte. And we are dealing with a current coalition partner, the Christian Union, who also says: in future, no more cabinet for us with Mark Rutte. Doesn't Mark Rutte himself see that he can possibly be a sta-in-the-way himself for the smooth, fast formation he so desires, which everyone wants in times of a great crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	I think the formation is about the content first. I will argue that the stage that D66 is about to propose and which I support is being used to talk about the relationship between the government and the people in the country, and also about the relations within the Chamber and between the Chamber and the Cabinet; that great question of power and counterpower. Then you talk about the content. At the end of the formation you talk about the persons. For the VVD, and I think for most of the parties here, the following applies. Since Joop den Uyl tried to interfere with whom the CDA would put forward in the second Den Uyl cabinet, where Andriessen and Van Agt were not then eligible in the eyes of the leader of the Labour Party, I believe we have agreed here, by implication, that parties themselves decide who they are putting forward. And in the case of the VVD: if we participate in a cabinet, given that we are the largest, we also provide the Prime Minister, and that the list leader is the candidate for it. That's how it goes, but that doesn't play until the end of the formation. We'll talk about the content first. Those are the steps you're going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Everything is fun and well, but Mark Rutte who is now suddenly going to argue that the dolls and who comes to what place only at the end of the conversations... Well, I was hoping he might have realized that two weeks ago. Then we would all have been spared a lot of misery. This has not been the case, with "Pieter Omtzigt, function elsewhere." In that light, I would like to ask one more question, because I heard Mark Rutte say on the weekend that he was combative, but also that others are not about a party's personnel policy. Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with that, because it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	But in the light of his own statement, does he not find it very unfortunate if the whole reason for the debate last week was that he, Mark Rutte, himself was going to interfere with the personnel policy of another party, namely: Pieter Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	No, because I didn't say anything else, it is clear from that note that I unfortunately didn't remember, and indeed last week there was quite a lot of criticism about that, but that is a fact... But what I said there is nothing but the list leader of that party himself had said in the election campaign, namely that it was quite conceivable for Pieter Ommzigt to become a minister in a new cabinet as far as the CDA was concerned. For me, and for the VVD, we are not talking about this at all, and apparently I said that in that conversation. I don't see any harm in that, in any way. And furthermore, it is true that we all, as we sit here, are themselves about who our parties, should we rule, should we move forward. The VVD does the same for itself. This is not determined by other parties; we do so ourselves. But you don't do that until you've talked about which parties first. I think it is important at this stage to talk not only about which parties, but also about that big topic last Thursday.................................................................................................................................................................................................. We need to involve all these issues, because I am convinced that this can contribute to the restoration of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	I get that Mark Rutte says, "That's the end of the process." But of course that's not how it turned out. That's the whole mess here. What Mark Rutte ignores too easily is that we now have not only an entire opposition here who has said 'no more trust', but also a current coalition partner, the Christian Union, who has also said 'for a next cabinet there is no more trust in Mark Rutte as Prime Minister'. He can't look away from that, can he? Then you can't say: we're just gonna go into the process and at the end we'll see? Then you look away from reality, and then I really wonder how many weekends of reflection and reflection are still needed as far as Mark Rutte is concerned to make this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	It doesn't take weekends of reflection. I said that, as far as I am concerned, my reflection on last week will also be reflected in our input in a next round, in which we will talk about the very important subject that I have just addressed. That affects a very broad spectrum of themes. I have already appointed a few, for example the relationship between trade union K and the Chamber. How do you deal with coalition issues in the future? How detailed are government chords? What does that mean, including the relationship between politics and society? If you look at the residue of the debate since January, the outcome of the report on child care payments, the terrible affair, but also last Thursday's debate, then I think that is a theme that we should address together. At least that's what I think; I'm just talking for myself. I would be very much in favour of doing that. This can also help restore confidence. Then you're gonna see which parties are gonna rule with each other. They also talk about the content of a programme. At the end of the ride, the parties put candidates forward. As far as the VVD is concerned, if we were to sit at the table, we would naturally have certain wishes and certain people in mind. That hasn't changed. Of course, that can also mean that the VVD enters the opposition. That is indeed a fact; we have to take that into account. But then I'm willing to lead it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	Let's get the facts straight. Mr Rutte did not just say that he could become a minister, referring to talks that have been or have not been held on this subject, but he said above all: you have to do something with Pieter Omtzig. We'll pick up where we left off Thursday night. We've had a long debate here. Motions have been passed. Then Mr Rutte said here in the microphone: I am going to do everything I can to restore confidence. Also a whole Easter weekend, in which we have seen all kinds of VVD machines, has not led to another insight. My question is: how does Mr Rutte see it? 'Cause we've been having a debate here. The whole opposition has said: we don't believe that story of "o, I don't remember". The coalition parties, minus the VVD, say the same thing. In fact, the whole Chamber minus the VVD says: Mr Rutte has not spoken the truth. Mr Rutte and the VVD say yes. How are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's hard to fix in itself, because we don't agree on that. I respect that people say you didn't tell the truth. I can't change that, but I can't lie here right now that I didn't lie. That would be weird, too. What we discussed in that conversation is evident from that note. It's stupid of me not to remember. I wasn't alone in that, but it's definitely stupid. We discussed this in detail last week. What's next there isn't: Override, function elsewhere. That's really something else. Hoekstra also drilled it out with the scouts last week that that is really something else. What's written there is no different than what was also mentioned by the leader of the CDA in the campaign. We can do that whole debate again. I only think, if you look honestly at that discussion, that what lies underneath is a much more fundamental issue. That is a much more fundamental question about: how boarded up is a coalition agreement? How do you deal with the relationship between a cabinet and a chamber in the future? How do you deal with issues such as a coalition meeting? How do we deal with issues of strengthening the position of the Chamber itself in the future, even when it comes to, for example, research opportunities, if Chambers are much more able, have the bestaffin to hear civil servants and citizens and to know much earlier when things go terribly wrong in implementation, such as the childcare allowance? I mention a few themes; there are many more. I would argue for that broad subject of power and counterpower, of administrative culture. That goes far beyond last week's debate. That's something we've built together over the past 30, 40 years. I think we can all see that there are a number of fundamental issues at stake. I think it might help, but I'm just talking about my own input to the informant, and it would be wise to discuss these issues in that conversation, too, and see if that helps us to find a new orientation on these issues together. They can also contribute to a new basis for further progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's a super long answer, but not yet the beginning of the answer to my question. Let me explain why I am committed to getting an idea here of what the restoration of confidence should look like or what Mr Rutte is going to do for it. I think that Mr Wilders has a point that we do not like the country with a process of unopposed formation if that confidence cannot be restored. Those who want to restore confidence are lagging behind, I can say. I still see that the whole Chamber, minus the VVD Group, says "Mr Rutte did not speak the truth" and that the VVD says "welles." I don't know if you've ever tried to restore trust between two people who disagreed, but of course this isn't helping. What's Mr. Rutte gonna do? How does he see that there can be confidence in parties that say "you have not spoken the truth" while he insists: yes, well, well? What's that gonna look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	Of course, I didn't tell the truth at all, because it turned out to have been discussed. I have only answered the question to the best of my conscience: have you mentioned Omtzigt? I can't convince everyone here. That's right. But then, as far as I am concerned, the follow-up question goes much further. It is about the discussion that lies underneath, about the relationship between us here and the country. What is the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet? We will have to discuss all these issues with each other. That is what the debate has been about for a long time, also in all intensity strengthened by the outcome of the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I suspect what Mrs Ouwehand is going to bring forward on this subject, but I am not going to talk about it, but I think it might be helpful if, at a stage when we are going to talk to an informant in the next few weeks, we do not talk about climate policy or migration policy in the next four years, but rather about this issue, because I think this is a central issue: trust between us here and between us and society. And that's what I'm arguing for. So that does indeed touch on a key point in last Thursday's debate and also on criticism in my direction as part of that Dutch administrative culture over the past ten years. I have to reflect on that, too. That is what I have to make my points about in these discussions. Where did things go well and where did things not go well? Where else can things be? I wasn't going to hold myself responsible for everything we've done with each other over the last 40 years, but I think that might be helpful. I think that such a discussion is going to help Mrs Ouwehand participate in it too, and I hope that she will be able to help us to give the country another perspective on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	I will also put the question to the parties who have not been very clear about it so far, but I do not think this will help. I don't think this is helping. It's clear to the Party for Animals. The Chamber is the highest organ. You have respect for that. Lying in the room to the room? Then you're just done. If there is no reflection in the sense of "I lied; I have a problem, I am looking for help and I am going to fix it," I don't know, the Party for Animals says: this is not possible. I am very curious how the other parties feel about this. But I can tell you, Mr. Rutte: this is the attempt to ask after Easter weekend "have you had any insight?', And what's happening here today isn't helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mrs Ouwehand is right: I lied that we were talking about Omtzigt. That's right. I've only done that to the best of my conscience. Since a majority in the Chamber says "we don't believe you," it's hard for me to say: oh, sorry, then I said it wrong? That is the only point I do not fully understand from Mrs Ouwehand. There are endless differences of opinion. But at the end of the day, how can we try to manage this discussion in a way that will help the future? This is a much bigger issue, namely how we relate to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have one more point, one which deserves clarification in connection with last Thursday's debate. I asked the Prime Minister at what point he realized he wasn't telling me what was written on it. At that time, Mr Rutte insisted that he had not lied. Now he says, "I lied, but I didn't mean it like that." So I think the communication people have a slightly different line in mind. Then Mr Rutte replied: "We all saw that, didn't we? When the pieces came out, didn't we know?" And half an hour later, he told Mr Baudet that he had been called at 7.30 a.m. Does that mean Mr. Rutte lied to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	No, that means that I also said to Mr Baudet that at 7.30 a.m. I was told that there was probably a record. So that scared me. When we saw the documents at 11.00 a.m. I had decided not to look at the documents, I thought it was true that in those notes it turned out that I had spoken of a ministership for Pieter Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	That too is not very credible. This is a debate which has looked at whether Mr Rutte has misinformed the Chamber or not. I think he did that for a whole week. He realized this wasn't good. He said: that was not good; sorry, I did not mean that. He said a lot of things. But I did ask a question. I was simply asking what time Mr Rutte realized that. The answer, I read it again on "When the pieces came out, didn't we know? We've all been able to see that." That wasn't my question. My question to Mr Rutte was: when did you know? Then, half an hour later, he said to Mr Baudet: 'I knew that at 7.30 a.m.'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	No. I said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yes, I do. You did... This is from the report of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	Again, at 7.30 a.m. I heard through the notes that there was probably something about Pieter Ommzigt. At 11:00, it turned out that that was true. That's right. So I told you the truth. I realized with that at 11:00, then I saw what it said, and from 7:30 I thought: I hope the suspicion is wrong, but I do see it when the pieces come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	This is really serious, because I asked that question twice. I asked the question at what point he realized that. The first answer was really: I didn't do that until the report came out, when we all saw it. That's just not true. The Prime Minister was called at 7:30, he says. My final question: if that then comes to Mr Rutte at 7.30 a.m. and he now says "probably"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	You did say "probably."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	Not now, I told you Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	But then it would be perfectly logical that the next opportunity would be 9 a.m. to read that report. You say you've just waited till 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	I also informed the President that, on the previous evening, I was able to read the report, and I would not make use of it. That's what I've been holding onto. I thought, "I'm waiting for the piece to come out," and that was around 11:00. It was supposed to appear earlier around 10:00, but it turned out to be an hour later. When the piece finally came out, it was confirmed what I feared from 7.30 a.m. on the basis of a message that I got through that probably something had been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have a brief question for Mr Rutte. Will Mr. Rutte remain Prime Minister at all costs? Or is he also prepared to join the opposition and sit here in the benches as group chairman for those 2 million voters he has behind him? What can the citizen expect with the formation what Mr Rutte will do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	I've already given you that answer. The answer to that question is yes. The VVD would like to take responsibility. We are very willing to have that substantive discussion. Of course, first of all, the step to be suggested by D66, which I think should be part of the subject that I have just discussed here about power and counterpower. Next we will discuss which parties will form together, the VVD, which I sincerely hope, would be included. If that is not the case and if a cabinet is formed without the VVD, I am naturally willing to lead the opposition here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	Let me make it clear that Mr Rutte can promise the VVD voters, those 2 million we talked about, with his hands on his heart that, if the VVD is not in a cabinet, he will be in opposition for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	That's right. As long as that is given to me in terms of health and my party likes it: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	Okay, at least this is registered to camera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	I now give the floor to Mrs Kaag on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	Madam President. This new Chamber has made a false start with the failed reconnaissance. A lot of things didn't go well, and that's what I'm charging myself for. A fresh start is needed. I spoke last week about the need for reflection and reflection and about the return of peace. What we need is not only peace, but also a careful process. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, pursuant to Rule 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Herman D. Tjeenk Willink appointed as an informant to: explore, in discussions with representatives of all political groups, the way in which the formation of a cabinet can take place and, in particular, examine whether and under what conditions there is or may be sufficient trust between the parties to find a broad way out of the impasse; report to the House of Representatives within three weeks at the latest, and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion has been proposed by the Member Kaag. She's getting No. 20 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	Madam President. On the basis of the election results, my group continues to strive for a stable, broad-based and as progressive a cabinet as possible, in which as many Dutch people as possible can recognize themselves. The great challenges of this time, the response to the climate crisis, the crisis of opportunity in education and the crumbling of the rule of law, cannot be delayed by chaos and divisions. In the first round of reconnaissance, I pointed out the need for a new administrative culture. The importance of this has only increased in the last week. The urgency is high. The responsibility for trust rests on our shoulders, on all of us. We deal with that seriously, and people can expect that from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs Ouwehand and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mrs Kaag said earlier: we also use the Easter weekend to reflect. With Mr Rutte, that has led him to say now: I have lied, but I have lied in all conscience. That was just another thing last week. But the question is: what does D66 actually expect to happen before there can be confidence in the VVD again? Because last week Mrs Kaag was relatively clear: if the motion she tabled was against her and was adopted, she would honour herself and step down. So what should happen according to D66 in order to achieve a stable coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	Those are big questions. It is precisely this motion that we have tabled to explain during the rest period the process of reflection, reflection on political culture and the conditions under which confidence may be restored. For us, it is about political culture. I spoke earlier in the campaign period about abolishing coalition transfer, strengthening dualism and strengthening the role of parliament. There are a lot of phases and layers in that. What I said on Thursday still stands. The distance and importance and the need not only to restore confidence, but also possibly to strengthen confidence are extremely important. I'm starting this phase from a zero point, without expectations or obligations. I also think that is the most pure thing in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'm asking this because we... Again, we have a heavy responsibility to do what is best for the Netherlands. If this doesn't go anywhere... Either it's going to be a meaningless formation process or we're going to have a cabinet that someone who's got those heavy motions from the Chamber on their pants is just gonna be part of again. Then I think: that will not help the Netherlands. Easter weekend's over. Mrs Kaag would have resigned herself if these motions had been adopted against her. Mr Rutte shows that he does not intend to do so. So what are the conditions that D66 lays down for example to form with the VVD? There are also other options outside the VVD. I think it would be good to have clear what the conditions of D66 are for us to start talking to the VVD again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	There are general terms and conditions for all of us. I have mentioned a number of conditions, suggestions I would say. It is, of course, up to everyone, and in this case also to Mr Rutte, to show how he wants and/or can restore the confidence gap. Work will have to be done, especially by those who have been involved in politics for much longer than I have, on how to start up, build and develop a governance culture with much more openness and transparency. That's a personal commitment and a party committee. Furthermore, I do not want to anticipate the discussions that I consider to be so important. Hopefully Mr. Tjeenk Willink will be the informant in that, if that is confirmed by this Chamber. That's exactly when we can draw that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	I think, and D66 should agree with me, that the Netherlands deserves transparency at the moment about what the different parties will stick to if a formation process is started. So what are the benchmarks for D66? Before this whole thing happened, we all talked nicely to the scouts and sent a letter about our commitment. My simple question is: what is the stake of D66? What framework conditions does D66 set for restoring trust in the rule of law, given what happened last week? Because of that, of course, also includes the fact that D66 reflects on this. It didn't come up last week because I really thought it should be about the role of the Prime Minister and the leader of the largest party in this house. But the scouts, one of whom is a D66 house, seem to have really helped create an untruth; let me say it very carefully. In D66 I do not yet see the moral limit, the conditions under which they say: so we could have discussions again in a formation process. I think the Netherlands deserves that transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm not sure I understand the question. If you are referring to the motion of censure, I have made that clear. I have rejected what has happened, including the role of scouts in the process of reconnaissance, in that same motion. We haven't been ambivalent about that. The ladies, the scouts Jorritsma and Ollongren, have resigned. They have also taken on their responsibilities. That's one. That is very clear, and so do our constituents. By the way, we have also communicated in writing with our own supporters. You will see our conditions in the letter to Mr Tjeenk Willink which I am writing, should the process indeed start very quickly. A very large part will be about political culture, administrative culture. We can recognise the preconditions in that: what we want by strengthening the role of Parliament, what we want with transparency. As a party, we're always in favour of that. Some things are technical, many things are political choices. But if the real question is "do you exclude Mr. Rutte?', Then this is not the time to answer that. At first, I said that last week, too, the VVD won the elections. The VVD has nearly 2 million voters on its hands. That is a part of the Netherlands that votes for the VVD and also for Mr Rutte. But a great deal will have to be done, also from Mr Rutte's choices and boundaries. That's part of all the conversations. I can only speak for D66. We're all talking to Mr. Tjeenk Willink. The trust gap will require a great deal, and that is why I believe that this process should take place carefully and quietly. That's very important. I am not going to run ahead of the troops, I am not going to anticipate all kinds of elements that we all have to discuss. I am also very interested in how other parties look at the content of recovery, because that is what this is about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	We have just heard from Mr Rutte that he sees the process differently. He said we're gonna talk about the content first, and then when we get out, all the way to the end of the trial, we're gonna talk about the dolls, and when the VVD comes into a cabinet, I'm willing to be the prime minister. Is that also what Mrs Kaag sees in front of her, including that process? So don't start talking about whether or not to trust Mark Rutte, but first the whole formation process and then when that's done in substance, then start talking about that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mrs Marijnissen may recall my letter to scouts and previous conversations. We have always taken the content as our starting point. We felt that parties could possibly find each other on the content. I have always chosen the starting position that, as far as D66 is concerned, there should be as progressive a cabinet as possible, still from the point of view of content. Last week's situation makes it very clear that we need to start a discussion about restoring confidence and how we want to shape political culture. That is a trend break as far as I am concerned, which is not a continuation of behavior or patterns of behaviour in the political process. We must first have the discussion about this, led by Mr Tjeenk Willink. Then, in a second phase, we discussed it this morning under your presidency, Madam President, there is a possible follow-up, in which you will look much more closely at the content. I do not think it is appropriate and correct that we should not help the country if we talk very prematurely only about the dolls, between quotes, rather than about restoring confidence, about the content, about how far the various parties might possibly get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	Now my clog breaks. Now it is Mrs Kaag who says: it is not appropriate to start talking about dolls prematurely. But it was Mrs Kaag who filed a very solid motion here last week, wasn't it? It was Mrs Kaag who said "if I had gotten such a motion, I'd know, I'd get out of here"? You can't look away from the fact that it's on the table any longer, can you? The fact that is on the table is that we are dealing here with a Chamber in which the complete opposition has supported a motion of censure towards Mr Rutte and that there is a current coalition party, the Christian Union, which says: we no longer have confidence in Mr Rutte. Then you say, "I think it's premature to look at dolls." Isn't that exactly what the whole debate was about last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	I believe that the debate was about established facts and assumptions about established facts. That's one. The second is that you forgot a very important part of the answer I gave last week. I said, I'm a different person. I only talked about myself. That is a very crucial part of my response. Thirdly, I come back to what we have consistently said in the letter to the scout, what we mentioned in the debate and what we still stand for. I tabled that motion of censure together with Mr Hoekstra of the CDA. That's where we marked what we don't want to see anymore. I have also said that the distance between Mr Rutte and me has grown and that we as D66 like to see normative change. That is why we are tabling the motion to start from point zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kaag can table motions on point zero what she wants, but by filing a motion, of course, you will not change the reality. We're dealing with a tough reality here. That is that the entire opposition, including a current coalition party, has abandoned confidence in Mr Rutte. Then you can say: I come with a motion on point zero. But you can't force that through a motion. That's my point. I will find, if I may say so, that the electorate is entitled to know the following. You have also been very firm in that debate, as far as I am concerned. However, I do believe that people have the right to get more clarity from D66......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	I think the voters have heard a lot of us collectively over the last few days. I think that the voters also expect us to look at the stability of the country, the great social task and how we can relate to each other. I did not, of course, vote in favour of the motion of censure. I have tabled a motion of censure. On that basis, I am now tabling a motion to try to see how we can restore confidence and create conditions for that. I have also said that, as far as I am concerned, parts of the restoration of confidence are: our own behaviour, the behaviour of all of us, how we relate to each other, but also how we can strengthen the elements of political culture. A number of examples have already been mentioned. I will draw all this out explicitly between this afternoon and tomorrow morning in my letter to the scout. Then not only the D66 voter will be able to read this, but everyone who is interested will be able to read it. We are very transparent about that. I do not think it is justified at this stage, however, that there has been a huge political crisis culture in order to advance further. I support the motion of censure and the words that have been said there. But I would now like to say that that is also the responsibility of a party with 24 seats to see how we can move forward. We all owe that to the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	In addition to the answers given by Mrs Kaag to Mrs Ouwehand's questions and to what you have just emphasised, you use the word 'progressive' very explicitly as one of the wishes you have for the route to be taken from here. Then I would like a little more clarification from you on what you think is the exact meaning of that word, Mrs Kaag. And, through the chairman, can you reassure me that with the choice for Mr Tjeenk Willink, who has a fantastic record of service and knowledge, skills and experience, is also guaranteed progressiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	We may all have a different definition. It's a nice question. It has to be someone who'll keep it very simple... progressive, forward-looking, inclusive and working on the solution, and who always works and thinks about equality. We have too many big assignments in this country. You know, D66 is not a right-wing party. We're not left either. We are progressive and liberal, so we always look at the solutions. We are looking for broad support, but we are always trying to work from the rule of law, human values and core values. About age, then. When I used to work at the UN, you weren't supposed to be "ageist," so to speak. In other words, use someone's age against him or her. That could just play a role. I think we should be grateful to Mr Tjeenk Willink for being willing to take on this difficult task for two weeks or three weeks, because if I had worked somewhere in a crisis situation, I would have asked him to work on a confidence-building measure. That is actually the intention of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	I do not have a question, but I would like to clarify that I absolutely did not talk about the age of Mr Tjeenk Willink, but only about his experience, knowledge and skills. I would also like to point out that I come from a culture in which there is increasing respect with increasing age. I'd like to get rid of that misunderstanding. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you. Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would like to ask Mr Kaag how likely she is to sit in a cabinet under Prime Minister Rutte as D66, or herself as Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I can't answer that in all conscience. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Well, last week you were pretty determined. Mrs. Ouwehand said that. Then you said, indeed from your own position, that if I had gotten that motion of censure on my pants, I would have quit. Granted, you're not Mr. Rutte. But then how credible is it that you say, well, I don't know, maybe? Because if you say you don't know, then you don't rule out that you, Mrs Kaag, you've become the new leader of D66 in the future simply join a cabinet under the VVD, as if nothing has changed. You say now: that is possible, I do not rule that out. Am I getting you right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	No, I said I don't know. I'm not gonna speculate on it, and I'm not gonna add a percentage to it. As far as I am concerned, I have made it clear that this is point zero, without expectations and obligations. I shall begin, like all of us, with Mr Tjeenk Willink again. The letter and the talks will show what is possible in the progress of this procedure at all. I said earlier, even today, that it will depend very much on Mr Rutte himself, on what changes and efforts he himself is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	So what you are actually saying is a little humiliating to Mr Rutte, but well, you should know for yourself that you are putting Mr Rutte under a little curatel. He needs to do some punitive work, and he needs to show that he's turned his life around. Maybe he should come up with a lot of plans about the new culture. Maybe he should know what to do. You won't tell us all that now. But what you are actually saying is: I am not ruling it out, but if Mr Rutte changes very much, does his best very much, comes very much our way and shows that he has improved his life, then he can do it again. Is that what you're saying? And if you say that, what exactly is that? Because I do think that in this public debate we have the right to know if you do not... Despite what you said to him last week: if I had had that motion, I would have taken up my duties, had I resigned, had I quit politics or had I at least not stayed a list leader and leader of the VVD. That's what you said last time. Now you say, "Well, if he's improving his life, maybe he is." Is that right? Am I getting that right? What is he supposed to do in concrete terms? Have you told him that before outside this room? Have you been in touch with him? Perhaps in public: what does he have to do to get back into the right book with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	First of all, from the largest opposition party, you indicate your own reading and coloring of what I have just said. I deliberately formulate everything neutral, because this point is zero. I think we are all responsible for political culture and also for what has not happened in recent years. Of course, you've been in parliament a lot longer. This is formal day two for me, I believe. So I think there's a collective responsibility for everyone: for newcomers and for the longest. I am very curious, like all the parties, to see the commitment that each party, or each group chairman, is going to make to Mr Tjeenk Willink. That becomes public at some point; we can communicate about it ourselves. Then we can see what everyone's commitment is and make the weighting on that basis. The process is not only careful, but it is also a reasonable process. Because honestly, we have to get on with each other, too. I do not think we should repeat the debate again through a back door of last week. That's right there. It's all been said there. It is now an issue to be able to move forward in a good, sober way. Who wasn't said to. I'm going for the D66 stakes. I have already said something about political culture and the rule of law. There's still a lot of ideas. We are debating them with each other this afternoon. But that's D66's bet. And right now, I want to get away from people and the personal. We need to look at the substance, even when it comes to trust and what the elements of trust are. I would also like to hear your ideas, but they will be part of your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	That was a very long answer and also a bit evasive. I just repeated your own words. I didn't make this up myself if the longest sitting MP or whatever you call it. You yourself said literally: that also depends on Mr Rutte, how he changes or what he does. Those were your own words. You made it personal; I didn't. There is no neutrality in politics, Mrs Kaag. You filed a very hard motion last week. You said you'd resign. As I said, you have put Mr Rutte politically half-hung up with that. You also thought he should get his ass kicked. Don't come up with neutrality three days later, because there's no such thing. But I repeat my question, Mr President. You said yourself: Mr Rutte must change. So what should Mr Rutte change in concrete terms? I understand he has to get down on his knees for you. I understand he has something to show you. But I really want to know: what then? I think a lot of people at home want to know that, too. Were your words of last week hollow words or words of that moment and are we going to start again with a clean slate? Or do you say he has to change this and then there's D66 to talk to the VVD again? And then nothing has changed and we just continue on the old foot again, because then it's all been a very big game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	I don't think any party should want to go through with it. I also see this as a huge political moment in a crisis of confidence. Mr Rutte has just put forward a number of points. I would like to see it in a follow-up discussion with Mr Tjeenk Willink in writing. That's how we want to see it from all sides. You will see that in my commitment, but I do not need to repeat what I said last week. That was obvious. The motion was also tabled on behalf of Mr Hoekstra of the CDA and this Chamber, minus the VVD, supported the motion. We are all responsible for how we can and want to decorate progress, but this is when I say: here is a motion; let us use it with both hands to move forward, whatever the turns on the path will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mrs Kaag states that this is her second day in parliament. I think it's really admirable and I enjoy it, too. I have one more question. Can Mrs Kaag tell us what the basis for Mr Rutte's statement at the beginning of January is: I am resigning as a cabinet; I am resigning because something has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	I do not know whether I fully understand the question, because it has been debated for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	I myself, of course, also took part in that debate and I remember a wonderful speech by Mr Omtzigt, who named the reason and how he himself looked at the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet. But the Prime Minister also indicated that he had an assignment. So my question to Mrs Kaag is: can she indicate in her own words what has been the reason that the cabinet has resigned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	That is a very good question, but you should have asked Mr Rutte a moment ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	You were in that cabinet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	Absolutely. We've taken collective responsibility. You may also know that I mentioned earlier that we, as D66, were relatively quick to get out of it, because it was a serious breach of confidence. Parents and children have suffered for years, have been victims of their own government. They've never been able to get and find their chance at justice. In a Netherlands in 2021, I found that terrible, even if you read all the reports, when you read the final report and of course also the parliamentary questioning. I think it is right that everyone at that time also assumed political responsibility. That was the only way for me and I think all the coalition parties were so in it. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	It's a clear answer. In fact, after saying at first that I should ask Mr Rutte, Mrs Kaag says that it is about trust between the Chamber and the Cabinet and that it is about what kind of government we want to be. Over the last ten years, the government has been transformed into a government that stood in front of the citizen instead of next to it. In fact, it was sort of a probationary period for Mr. Rutte. Mr. Rutte promised to get better. He said, "Give me some more time, and I'm going to work on that trust." This meant that he would disclose the decision list of the consultations in the Council of Ministers, that he would share personal policy views. He was going to be transparent. And now there was a possibility where he could have shown it. In my view, we have to conclude, and Mrs Kaag has done so in very strong terms, that he has done exactly the opposite of what was promised. How often does Mrs. Kaag give Mr. Rutte probation and a chance? How many more times are you going to accept Mrs Kaag...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes, Mrs Kaag, that's what I'm saying, isn't it? How often will Mrs Kaag accept that Mr Rutte is on probation every time? Is that the new leadership of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	To be clear, we are all parties. Mr Rutte represents the largest party. We're the second party right now. That includes responsibility. That's not a matter of probation. That is a question of investigations through informant Tjeenk Willink whether and in what way trust can be established, restored and strengthened. That's not probation. I know what you mean. That's not a small word. We haven't deliberately made any statements about the how and what. I think it is important that we use this period to obtain clarity. The motion of censure you also referred to was, of course, about group chairman Rutte. It was also about the scouts and the whole process of exploration that indeed had radically failed. It wasn't about Demissionary Prime Minister Rutte. We have always made a very sharp distinction; we think that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	However, I would like to return briefly to last week's debate. There were two motions for resolutions: a motion of censure, tabled by Mrs Kaag together with our colleague Hoekstra, and a motion of censure. I do not yet know why, even if I am listening to Mrs Kaag again, she did not support that motion of censure on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	I said that at the time. We have tabled a motion of censure on the basis of facts, assumptions, or the dent in the confidence we have suffered in the exploration process. With this we have rejected the process of reconnaissance, the scouts have resigned; they have also been criticised, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	But God forbid there'd be more, right? There's only one Mark Rutte? Isn't it the same Mark Rutte as group chairman of the VVD who is part of a culture that you and I both want to distance ourselves from?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yes, but Mr Rutte does operate here as group chairman and has indeed not been cloned. I am not going to repeat last week's debate. It was a motion of censure. It was already a very clear signal, a very heavy signal. I think it has also affected us all, whether it has been as a sending party or as a receiving party. This is a very heavy signal, and I'm going to stick with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	Do you have another question, Mrs Simons? We should not repeat last week's debate, but in the meantime the same questions are repeated again. So I'd say another question. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	Are you referring to another question that cannot be taken up on what Mrs Ploumen has just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	You decide your own question, but only try to prevent us from repeating last week's debate. That's what I want to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	I am doing my best, and I hope that will do it. In reply to Mrs Ploumen, I once again hear Mrs Kaag say that we have judged Mr Rutte on that post but not on that post, so we have distinguished between the outgoing Prime Minister and the VVD's list leader. Then I wonder how you indicate the very last point made by Mr Rutte in that debate last Thursday, namely: I am one person, I am not a hat, I am not a divisible person. I am very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	That is, of course, humanly understandable. Of course, no one sees himself as a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, so to speak. That's not a comparison with anyone; I'll just talk about myself. No one has two entities, but it is very important to keep it pure, because Mr Rutte had talks as group chairman of the largest party in the Netherlands. I have an opinion on this, which Mr Hoekstra and I have voted through the motion of censure, but on the whole exploration process. This is where we have to keep it clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	Finally, I am very curious, if you can accept that Mr Rutte does not manifest himself as Jekyll and Hyde, how you will be able to do so, because of course we are now asking you to do so because a large part of this Chamber does not have that confidence in Mr Rutte. So again, how will you in the future deal with someone who says he doesn't make a distinction in dealing in one function or another, when you seem to value it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Again. I actually have an anecdote. I've done a lot of refugee work. Then the UNHCR had an argument about the refugee's status. Someone who had to build the house had an argument about the part of the fugitive that needs a house. The organization that was supposed to feed the person had an argument about the food package. But it was the same person all the time. From that point of view, I understand Mr Rutte very well. He knows himself. It's one person. But it's up to us not to mix roles as it suits. The motion of censure was strong in substance. It was a powerful signal. That is what we base our efforts on when it comes to changing political culture. I do not think this adds anything to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr Wilders, one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	Maybe a couple of cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	I'll get a pen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	It's often bull business in politics. I understand that Mr Rutte and the VVD must work towards restoring trust at D66. That is why I have the following question for you. Have you or anyone on behalf of D66 spoken with Mr Rutte or the VVD over the last few days about the candidates for the presidency of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	I spoke to Mr Rutte. That was a conversation to talk to each other after everything that's happened. Secondly, colleagues have informed me about the possibilities of D66's candidacy. I would like to point out that there has been no vote in favour. I see this as a free matter. We do not know who is going to vote for our candidate. I think that's best. I think that's a fair competition, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr Wilders, you are bringing a new point into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	Sure, but it's connected to this, Mr. Chairman. Again, D66 believes the VVD should restore trust. In politics, everything is liquid. Everything's connected. It is no coincidence that you now admit that, not four weeks ago, but over the last few days you have said yes to yourself or to your group members with the VVD, and you yourself have spoken to Mr Rutte about this. Of course, I do not blame our own Martin Bosma as the best candidate. But now back to business. I read in the newspaper that it was first said that the coalition parties in some kind of cow trade.I would find that scandalous, but well planned to put your candidate all together and let Mrs Arib win, when there were two candidates. In the meantime, this would be moving forward in the wake of last week's debate and you would have contacted us. I want to keep it pure, Madam President, because if that is related to restoring confidence, I think you should make it clear what has been said. Can you now say in public what you have said to Mr Rutte about the presidency and what your colleagues have asked the other members of the VVD? 'Cause I'm guessing you asked me a question. Why else have you been in contact with Mr Rutte in the last few days? Let us put your own transparency on the table. What exactly did you and your colleagues say to Mr Rutte and the VVD about the presidency of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	Well, I can be very brief about that. I have made a remark that we are considering... we did not confirm that until this morning. I got a call, by chance, at 7:30, but by Vera Bergkamp. She woke me up because I was late for sleep. It's a boring detail, but it gives you a couple of cooler locales. She called me to say, "I've decided to be a candidate for parliamentary membership." Then I said, "Well, great." She said, it's a go, do you agree? I said yes. I personally haven't interfered with this whole process at all. You can imagine that last week and since the parliamentary elections I had something else on my mind. Yesterday, when I spoke to Mr Rutte, it was a personal conversation at the end of which I said: oh, yes, we are thinking about getting Vera Bergkamp ready; we do not know at all whether there is support and on the basis of the discussions and debates last week we do not know at all whether there is support, but for me it is a free matter, so I am not asking for anything either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	And what did Mr Rutte say then?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	Well, he's behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	No, but you reported it to Mr Rutte yesterday in a personal conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	I didn't ask. I reported it without any expectation. I've been very clear about that, too. On the contrary, I did not want to ask any expectations or questions, because I am also going into this process without any obligation or expectation. And, Mr. Wilders, you want to know so badly, Mr. Rutte said something about... he's standing here himself. You can ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	No, the question has been asked to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	He said he also thinks it's a good idea for people to treat it as a free matter. In the past, they have apparently treated it that way at the VVD. That's all I know. I didn't interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	I'm rounding up. The VVD didn't have a candidate of its own. After last Thursday's debate, you yourself have a personal conversation yesterday in any case... It is also very strange that you say that: a personal conversation. What is that, a personal conversation? You're talking to the leader of the VVD in a personal conversation about the new President of the Chamber. I say, that stinks, because you don't do that in a personal conversation. It's just about the function of our new President of the Chamber. That smells like cow business, Mrs Kaag! While the VVD does not have its own candidate, yesterday, just before ten o'clock the date for candidates to come forward and one and a half days before we elect a new president, you will go to Mr Rutte. You know, last Thursday, you didn't say that, of course, but you thought that or Mr Rutte understood that so I tabled a motion of censure against you; you have to come to me in a good place. You go to him and say: we may have a candidate. That stinks, Mrs Kaag, that stinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	You're influencing this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	Whether at the expense of Mrs Arib or Mr Bosma, it stinks and you influence the procedure. Otherwise, you would have waited nicely until after Wednesday. The fact that you did this yesterday, while the VVD doesn't have a candidate, four days after you filed a motion of censure, stinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	I like to respond to this. You're champion of framing, Mr. Wilders. You're doing it on purpose. You sketch a tableau with colors and fill it all in. I answered your question honestly and I said that I reported: oh, no surprise, we have a candidate tomorrow. I don't know if that candidate's gonna get any support. I think we have a candidate; it hasn't been confirmed yet. That's all it was. With your 22 years of Binnenhof experience, you can colour it all, but you paint yourself with it, because as it is worth, he trusts his guests. That's not me. I'll throw you back this accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	I've been in touch with a lot of colleagues in the last few days. That's how Mr Segers called me Friday night. Indeed, I also spoke with Mrs Kaag. What she says is from a to z correct. We have talked about the debate that is coming, as it should be in such a situation. I think she has contacted many group chairmen about her intention to table a motion. She did the same thing to me. There has been no mention of the President of the Chamber. There's no link between that conversation and the Chamber Presidency. What she explains is a-to-z correct. Mr Wilders is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	In conclusion, I would like to point out that last night there was contact between the two winners of the elections, Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte, about who the President of the Chamber will be. The vote will take place tomorrow. Mr President, you know whose side I am on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	I also find this conclusion very disappointing. Mrs Ploumen should know better. We're also in a missionary cabinet. You can also imagine that we have discussed, for example, the Corona approach, or a number of other issues that are involved. I am very sorry about what is happening here, and I am not going to let this happen, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	This is a personal fact. I agree with Mrs Kaag. You can't do this. What Mrs Ploumen is doing is insinuating into the Chamber. Mrs Kaag has undoubtedly also had contact with Mrs Ploumen. I don't know, but she's talked to a lot of MPs, including me. Of course we talk a little longer, because a lot happened last week. No wonder you're thinking about that. But there's no link between that conversation and the new President of the Chamber, in any way. If we talk about restoring confidence after last Thursday, and we declare that both of us, we might be able to accept it from both of us. This could be the beginning of normal administrative and political relations in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	I note that I am not the one who has disturbed normal political and administrative relations. This happened last week in the process with the scouts, partly because of the party chairman of the VVD. I listened very carefully to what Mrs Kaag said and I listened very carefully to what Mr Rutte said. My conclusion was that last night there was contact between the two and that the position of the President of the Chamber was also discussed. They can give a coloring to that. They are free to do so, but that is what has been said, and that is what I have noticed, in my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	I think the word "contact" is different. If I mention the fact that we may have considered proposing a President of the Chamber tomorrow but are not sure yet, and that we have no further expectation of anyone else, that is something other than a moment of contact as I think is meant. Otherwise, there was no reason to go back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	I think we can see exactly why it's so important not to play games or be obstinate about the truth. Mrs Kaag says something here. She's being attacked by Mr. Wilders. Then Mr Rutte comes forward in the defence of Mrs Kaag. But in all honesty, no matter how firm he says "that really didn't happen," half the Netherlands thinks: it will; that's Rutte and you can't value what he says there. But that's actually why I didn't come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	I have another question for Mrs Kaag, or an observation. We're debating how we're going to proceed today. It will be no secret: at the Party for Animals we see it gloomy. I understand that, for example, Mr Wilders says: let us already conclude that it is not going to work anymore. Let us assume for a moment that D66 genuinely wants to restore confidence, including in the rule of law, and sincerely wants to put an end to this culture of governance, which has created very serious problems. Mr. Azarkan didn't bring in the supplemental affair for nothing. My question is therefore to try out what exactly D66 is going to change and what it is prepared to fight for. Last week we saw that Mr Rutte did not speak the truth. He now admits that he has lied, honor and conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	The scouts have been involved in this. Why didn't Mrs Kaag and her group vote in favour of the motion that asked for a parliamentary questioning to find out exactly what happened there? Who put pressure on who? How come no one could remember or say that? Why didn't Mrs Kaag want that interrogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	That was the last question. Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	We did not vote for it last week. We felt that sufficient information had been shared. It was a sad conclusion of a very long process. I don't think there was much more to learn. I think that it is important now that we set new conditions and focus all energy on them. The scouts have resigned and taken their responsibilities. We've seen all the handwritten notes. We've seen the typed notes. There have been conversations. The scouts have been heard. Mr Rutte has been heard in detail. For us, the picture was complete. That was a sad picture. We must learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mrs Ouwehand, you refer to Mr Wilders, but it was a new point he made. If you really ask one last question, then I would like to go to the following speakers. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	A brief question, or actually a statement: D66 does not have an interest at the moment in keeping the root causes of the regime out of the wind; all of them cooperate to keep the truth a little under the radar, to investigate further? I find that worrying for the rest of the process. Well, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	That was a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	I absolutely do not share that conclusion. I think the thrust of what might be found would be very little. I think that we will benefit more from setting new conditions and being clear about them, with all the lessons that have already been learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch have been fooled, deceived. In backrooms, the VVD, together with D66, tried to serve an elected representative, and those conversations were lied about. And even when all this was proved last week, the coalition parties dared not support my motion of censure against Prime Minister Rutte. While everyone knows his position is untenable and he has to leave. The Chamber did, however, adopt a motion of censure, which, among other things, rejected the Prime Minister's failure to speak the truth. And now we are in unprecedented political chaos. The Christian Union has now indicated that it no longer wants to be part of a subsequent Rutte cabinet. But there is also a great deal of mistrust among other parties, and much more among the citizens. The question now is how to break the current stalemate. I do not think that naming Mr Tjeenk Willink, former assistant of Joop den Uyl, as an informant is a sign of the new fresh leadership we need now. The mothballs aren't flying around you yet. Politics needs a new mandate. That is essential if confidence is to be restored and to emerge from this political impasse. I myself am convinced that with new elections we will be able to get a new cabinet rather than after months of negotiations, where there is an enormous chance that they will remain without results. In short, let us save ourselves the trouble of a lengthy, pointless round of information and quickly issue elections. Then the citizens, and not the backrooms, can determine what they thought of what has happened in recent times, and also how we can best come out of this impasse with new relationships. Hence the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the Government to dissolve the Chamber and to hold new elections, and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. She's getting No. 21 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hoekstra, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr. Chairman. We are now five days away, but politics is of course the day after the night before. If we look in the rear-view mirror, we still see a trail of destruction, but we will also have to look forward. The most important thing is that, as I said earlier, the temperature is cooling, because one way or another we will have to move forward. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is very important, as we said a week and a half or two weeks ago, that a scout is now appointed an informant who is at a sufficient distance from politics, and that this should be one person. It is good that the Chamber now seems to unite in this direction. The first thing that person should do is to go ahead with everything that has gone wrong in the past period. Mrs Kaag, Mr Rutte and, perhaps indirectly, Mr Wilders referred to this. As far as I am concerned, that should be the first task. That is even more important, and I would like to highlight that, rather than doing so quickly on the content. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, that will not be heard at this stage. This phase is really about restoring confidence and looking at how we should proceed with each other. It would be good if it were also about that important figure of power and opposition, but I would point out that the period of up to three weeks is probably too short to do that piece of homework. So, as far as we are concerned, that will be a start, but it will also have to be part of the subsequent stages. First of all, Mr Tjeenk Willink will have to focus on collecting the debris and looking at how politics can then move forward. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that we consider Mr Tjeenk Willink to be someone of great quality, whom we consider to be very suitable for the work ahead of him. That is why we will follow Mrs Kaag's suggestion, Mr Rutte and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	I see Mrs. Ouwehand. A short question, Mrs Ouwehand, because you are really starting out with long introductions and that is not the intention. We have agreed on this before and it is literally in the Rules of Procedure. So a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	I have two brief questions. What, according to the CDA Group, should be done at the VVD, in view of the motion tabled and also adopted, in order to restore that confidence? And the second question: is that commitment shared and supported by the entire CDA group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	I understand it was a little short, but we debated last week until 3:00 a.m., 3:30 a.m. I would like to refer to that debate, to my input and to the text of the motion when it comes to how to proceed. For the record, I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for the opportunity to emphasise that once again, even with the new route with this, now, informant, the CDA Group is not in the business. We were not, and we are, if possible, even less so. I also said last week to see all kinds of parties I would like to negotiate with in theory, because I now know which part of the silver table they have offered. But we are not going to make a move, and we are not going to make a move soon either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	The one about the silver table is nice. Mr Hoekstra must have read that the Animal Party did not give away a substantial shrinkage of livestock in that first round of talks. So it gets exciting whether we can form outside the VVD, because then the CDA and the Party for Animals will have to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	Yeah, but I can't let this go, can I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	That's what I thought. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	You know me. The question is getting concrete. We have seen that the three coalition parties have jointly supported the motion that Mr Hoekstra has contributed to. One of the coalition parties said: we do not see in front of us that we are going to work with the VVD with Rutte. I wonder what clarity the CDA Group can give today, because we have to check with each other what is the best and most sensible step forward. Are we going into a formation process that's gonna end up dead anyway? What's wisdom here? It would help if the CDA were clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	Interesting to note over the past few years I haven't felt it so much that the Party for Animals now apparently thinks that the CDA should be formed together. I would like to add that before you begin. As far as that question is concerned, I said something about it last week and also this morning. I think that the temperature in The Hague needs to cool down and I think that the CDA is not going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u148	But we have to look closely at the situation as it is. The entire opposition has said not to have faith in Rutte. That's all falling off. Then only two things can happen: either the current coalition parties will either work with Rutte or we will go outside the VVD. The CDA is not the first preferred partner of the Party for Animals, certainly not, but then that route should be explored. If Mr Hoekstra says that this is not going to happen, then I think we should support Mr Wilders' motion today and conclude that it really does not make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u149	I refer Mrs Ouwehand to my previous reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An entire generation has been raised with the idea that the government is a company and that market forces in public services are good. That road's a dead end. The language of democracy and justice has become a foreign language for many in the Netherlands. Politics cannot change that alone; that must be done from the bottom up. You don't see me here often with a note, but these aren't my words. These are the words of Mr Tjeenk Willink. As far as I'm concerned, those are very wise words. A lot happened here in the Chamber last Thursday. The entire opposition supported a motion of mistrust towards Mr Rutte. Last weekend, the Christian Union joined, who also expressed no confidence in a new cabinet with Mark Rutte. That means that there is now, at the moment, a majority in the Lower House that says that there is no confidence in Mark Rutte as Prime Minister of a subsequent cabinet. There was also a motion of censure, which was supported by the whole Chamber, less its own group. That was a solid motion. Many Dutch people have watched this debate with disbelief. I talked to a lot of people last weekend, and they're asking for clarity. I actually understand that. I would therefore like to call on all parties here today to give greater clarity, in particular to D66. I just asked for that, too. I don't think we should move that to the back room right now, but people have a right to know what it takes to restore confidence, if that's possible. The SP has been clear. We have said: we want fundamental changes and we do not believe that the people who caused the problems will solve them. Mr. Chairman. We have seen that the surcharge scandal has caused deep, deep wounds in terms of people's trust in the rule of law and in our government. I think we saw the aftermath of that in the debate last Thursday. What's it gonna take? What is needed is fair politics. What else does it take? That what Tjeenk Willink said: getting it done from the bottom up. We're in the middle of a major crisis. Care's going through a lot. Our entrepreneurs are having a hard time. Society's having a hard time. But fair politics is what is needed now. That only requires fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Mrs Ploumen has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has to deal with a large number of issues that affect the lives of all people in our country. The fight against the corona virus is difficult. The number of people infected is still very large. The number of people who get sick is still very large. Van Nederlanders is asked for the utmost: visit each other as little as possible, stay away from each other. The museums are closed, everything is closed, while vaccination goes way too slow and incredibly messy. The social consequences of the crisis are very serious. The inequality between people is increasing. There's a housing shortage. People face racism, discrimination, exclusion. The rule of law is in decline. Then there is the climate crisis. It is up to a new cabinet to provide answers to all these major issues to our country. In the meantime, however, the information phase leading to a new cabinet has degenerate into great chaos. With Mark Rutte's statements about our colleague Pieter Omtzigt and his attempts to conceal them, confidence in the Prime Minister is gone. He just said he lied to his conscience. That is why we supported the motion of censure last week. The confidence in the formation process has also been damaged in our group. It can't go on like this. There's gotta be another way. That is why we also support the proposal to ask Herman Tjeenk Willink as an informant to investigate whether and in what way trust can be restored. Moreover, we believe that the discussions on formation should be conducted along the substantive issues. That is what the Netherlands is asking of us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr. Chairman. What a mockery, the debate last week. Terrible, for the appearance of politics, but above all because we are farther away than ever from a cabinet that is so badly needed at this time to tackle all these major problems. But it has also brought something very beautiful. Suddenly I hear all parties, from left to right, talking about changing political culture, making sure that something changes in the way the government is organized in the Netherlands. Yet you could say that might be part of that old-fashioned political culture. We see where the space is. Everyone's rushing over there. Now the question is: how does that really take shape? In what way can this political culture really change in the Netherlands? I think that is necessary because, without that culture changing, we will not succeed in addressing these great challenges of our time. Mr. Chairman. We can't do that without some help. I welcome D66's proposal to ask Herman Tjeenk Willink to act as an informant. I am glad that he wants to take on this task, because many, many questions need to be answered. If anyone's capable of shaping that process, it's him. Let me speak for my group: the mistrust is great. The motion of censure that we supported last week says something. How can this new phase, in which we are trying to establish a new governance culture, be led by the people who have done great damage to it? That question was answered by us last week with that motion of censure. That question stays here. We look forward to the formation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u156	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u157	What annoys me a little in this whole thing is that it's being made so emotional. I don't think it's that emotional at all. I think it's a business thing, but it's made into some kind of psychological group therapy. That's all a bit of an act. That is unnecessary, so I would suggest that we stop doing so. Let us not pretend that we are all very emotional and hurt, because that is not at all true. That's what I saw at the Smoking Salon this morning. You guys are all very normal with each other, so don't be so theatrical around here. Second. I'm against Herman Tjeenk Willink being taken away. I think the Chamber is speaking and no one else is speaking but the Chamber. We have all gone into the country with our election programmes. The voter or not voted for it. We should now take the lead ourselves as Chamber, as 150 representatives of the Dutch people, to vote on the major themes that play. Let's just see what majorities are for. Put all these election programs together. Immigration, remigration, climate, taxes, referenda or not, corona policy, European Union, you name it all. And on that basis: seeking trade ministers, forming a business cabinet or a knowledge cabinet, with one of us or someone from outside as prime minister who is actually above the parties. And then you're going to express democracy with varying majorities. That's how it's meant to be. That's the nineteenth-century model. We should re-introduce that. To bring out a 'cartel cardinal', which may decide things on behalf of all of us, is a licence of inability. The Chamber castrates itself less than two weeks after the election. It testifies to so much powerlessness. We will therefore vote against this motion, but also against the new elections that Wilders wants. That doesn't make any sense: the elections have just been held and the electorate has just spoken. However, the only thing that is lacking is the courage of the Chamber itself to actually implement that democratic mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has a question for you, Mrs Ouwehand, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u159	One quick question. I would like to point out that the Animal Party itself is enthusiastic about this type of proposal, on the main lines. So I find it rather unfair when Mr Baudet here pretends to be the only one who has an alternative. Because last week he co-signed the motion, which says: let's appoint an informant. Then do not make the suggestion that no one in the Chamber would want to shape that information phase in a different way, if you yourself said 'let's do it through an informant'. That was the comment I wanted to make. Furthermore, I look forward to this kind of proposal after the next election, because I think there are good ideas in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u160	So that's a bit like Esther's remark, actually. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you. Then I'll give the floor... let's see. Mrs Ouwehand, it's your turn!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mr President. The historical formation is dragging on. I'm gonna drop the door in the house right away. For my group, it is really a heavy consideration which is wisdom today, because we see that the entire opposition has said: we cannot put confidence in Mr Rutte. Then the VVD with Mr Rutte falls off. One of the coalition parties has already said the same thing, so the chances of another cabinet being formed are very small. We are also not getting any clarity today from the parties who are at the front to know what framework conditions they would impose on them. So I understand very well that Mr Wilders says: let us now draw our conclusions and not tire the country of a formation process that is not going to produce anything. There are still possibilities. Maybe we should use the next three weeks to look at that, but then the "go/no go" moment should become clear. The Party for Animals is still on the line "let's see what else is possible," but I am very concerned about the lack of clarity that other parties have given about the falsehoods that have been told here. The only movement we've seen at the VVD... we've seen the whole machination run full this weekend. Before this weekend, it was like, "I didn't lie. I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience. I didn't lie." Today it was like, "Okay, okay. I lied, but that was to the best of my conscience." For the Party for Animals this is not necessarily a sign of deep self-reflection and willingness to change; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u163	I think you were almost done. I'd just wrap it up, because you've got six seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u164	Oh, but I just wanted a sip of water. That's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u165	Come on. Then I'm going to see Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u166	What I just said about that is no different than last week, namely that unfortunately I discovered, when I read the piece at 11:00 and that I heard from the call via 7:30, that I probably had talked about Pieter Ommzigt anyway. But it is exactly as Mr Van der Staaij asked me last week: with that you have spoken an untruth in the week before. That's right. Not consciously, because I honestly don't remember discussing that. That's exactly the same situation. This is because Mrs Ouwehand now thinks she has heard something new from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u167	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u168	I'd like to respond to that, except for those six seconds. Didn't we just hear "But Mrs. Ouwehand is right"? I know it's a real pain in the ass, but the Prime Minister said it himself: "But Mrs Ouwehand is right. I lied. I've been talking about Pieter Ommzigt. I've only done that to the best of my conscience." That's what he said this afternoon. Last week it was like, "I didn't lie. I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u169	I have spoken to the press in my honour and conscience. When I said that, I didn't know it was about Pieter Ommzigt. But if you see the note now, which is exactly the interruption I received from Van der Staaij in the debate last Thursday, it turns out that I have spoken falsely. I didn't do that on purpose, consciously or anything. I simply did not remember that it had been about Pieter Ommzigt in that conversation. What I just said is nothing else than last week, also in response to the interruption of Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u170	Then I conclude that there is no progression. That seems to me to be relevant information for parties wishing to conduct formation interviews. I'd like to call on my colleagues not to be blackmailed. Of course, we're dealing with a corona crisis, but how does it help our country if the Prime Minister can get through, when the whole of the Netherlands thinks: yes, but what that man says, we can't rely on? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Three weeks after the elections, reconnaissance after last week's debate has reached a difficult stage. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, an informant is now appointed who, in discussions with representatives of all political groups, explores how the formation of a cabinet can take place. It is also necessary to examine the conditions under which sufficient trust can be created between the parties to find a broad-based way out of this difficult exploration phase. The ChristianUnion Group sees it as an important task for a next cabinet to work for a serviceable and approachable government and build a healthy political culture, with a healthy relationship between power and counterpower. The motion tabled by Mr Kaag to appoint Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant will therefore support my group. That is partly because we have the full confidence in the knowledge and skill of Mr.Tjeenk Willink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dassen on behalf of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. Last week had hectic first days and was the start of a very special exploration trip. It was also a journey that constantly raises questions. What kind of governance culture do we stand for? How is power and counterpower handled? Where is the dividing line between transparency and trust? What's it gonna take to regain that trust? We have debated this in the Chamber, but these questions have clearly not yet been answered. The motion on the appointment of an informant is a first step in this direction, but there is now a very important task for us to ensure that peace and confidence are restored, with the necessary urgency. In doing so, it is good that a person with a distance from current politics, some authority and experience leads this process. The motion before us, with Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant to take the first steps at this stage, can therefore count on the support of Volt. We would like to say, however, that everyone must bear in mind why we have been elected, namely to solve the climate problem, to combat social inequality, to tackle digitalisation, and certainly now to tackle the corona crisis, here in the Netherlands. Of course, these challenges are also about European cooperation. At the same time, it is also about strengthening confidence in democracy and the rule of law, laying the foundations for a new, open administrative culture with a balance between power and counterpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I now give the floor to Mr Eerdmans on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, good afternoon. I wanted to start by saying on behalf of JA21 that it is good that the process continues. We believe that progress should be made. We shouldn't get caught up in this. For JA21 it is important that we look at the way we deal with each other, the way we deal with information, but above all the lessons we have to learn from the past two weeks. Mr. Chairman. Mr Tjeenk Willink was not our first choice, but we also see that continuing the process is the most important thing at the moment. We saw a large majority emerge. We agree with that. We also see him more as a rapporteur to the Chamber on how to proceed on this point. That's a tough job in itself. I repeat that to other speakers. Mr. Chairman. We already want to send a signal of another method that we see before us as House of Representatives. With a view to dealing with each other in a different way, giving openness and a break with the past, I have a proposal for you. That is the proposal to publish, at the same time as Mr Tjeenk Willink's final report, the interview reports of the talks we all have with the informant. So more transparency. To that end, I shall table the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the House of Representatives is proposing an informant who, in discussions with representatives of all political groups, explores the way in which the formation of a cabinet can take place and reports to the House of Representatives as soon as possible; Whereas, under the present circumstances, openness is conditional on restoring confidence in the process; comments from the interview reports of the information round at the same time as making the report of the informant fully public, and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Wilders. She's getting No. 22 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u178	It is now up to Mr Van der Staaij to speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u179	Madam President. In last week's tumultuous debate, it became clear that the reconnaissance phase of the formation has been stranded. Moreover, serious damage has been done to mutual trust. The motion of censure received a great deal of support, including from my group. The motion of censure even received a majority. This did not bring us closer to a new cabinet in the post-election period, but moved further away from home. What is now important for the SGP is to take back the damage and see what new steps can be taken in this complex and fragile formation process. This is also what citizens in the country can expect after the damage that the failed exploration phase has caused to their confidence in politics. The SGP will support the motion presented by Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant. Given his rich experience and involvement in previous cabinet formations and his position as minister of state with sufficient distance to the current political battlefield, it is an understandable choice to nominate him. On one point, I would like to draw attention to: how should we deal with confidentiality or openness of what is being exchanged and what are on the table? The rules of the game have become unclear. It is always in a formation looking for a good balance between openness and confidentiality. Both are necessary for an authoritative process. I think it is important that the informant should also shed light on this sensitive but essential issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've heard a number of times that "we" need to restore confidence. I'm not going along with that. Because before you know it, it's not "we," but it's the Dutch people who have to restore confidence, and soon it's the victims of the premium affair who have to restore confidence. Mr. Chairman. If there is one person responsible for that restoration of trust, that is Mr Rutte. Mr Rutte was responsible for ten years for a government where citizens have been discriminated against, where citizens have been destroyed. It was Mr. Rutte who spent four years trying to stop him from being open. As a result, colleagues here in the Chamber have had to work their teeth to bring that scandal up. It was Mr Rutte who last time tried to get rid of a critical MP; no one else. So before we accept that we all have a problem, Mr Rutte and the VVD have a problem. I think that's clear. I believe that all the other parties have now underlined this. Mr. Chairman. It is important to form a government. In this respect, DENK has indicated that this should be done quickly. But we realize that's gotten more complicated. In that sense, Mr Tjeenk Willink is not the fresh and fruity face we had in mind. However, it is someone who has experience, authority and knowledge. I think, given the circumstances, it's best that he fills out that important role as an informant. We shall therefore be supporting Mr Tjeenk Willink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you, Mr President. A lot has been said in a very short time. The confidence between a number of parties, but also that of the citizen in politics, has been seriously damaged. Restored trust can only be the basis, and must also be the basis, of further discussions on content. Therefore, as a 50PLUS, it seems good that the group chairmen can speak to Mr Tjeenk Willink in all confidence and that the air can be cleared, but it also seems good that 50PLUS is talking about administrative culture. That must be done, because quite frankly, as far as I am concerned, we have shown again today how not to do so. And here's the thing, Mr. Chairman. Last week, 50PLUS pointed out that, in view of developments, it is important to have a clear task for the informant. It's there now. But I would like to reiterate that it is also very important for the future that this is properly recorded. This morning, Mr. Klaver pointed out that we need to establish how the procedural procedure is set up. As far as I am concerned, we agree to appoint Mr Tjeenk Willink as an informant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas on behalf of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. BBB and I are the party, I am, shall I say, still surprised at what happened last week. And "surprised" is an understatement. What also surprises me is that there are a number of parties that supported the motion of censure last week, which now indicate that the door is not being kept closed. This is explained: the door is not open, but the door is not closed either. In the country it's just called open. So that door's open. We find that amazing. About Mr. Tjeenk Willink. Of course, we have great respect for that. However, we do not think he is sufficiently above the parties. That is why we will not support Mr Tjeenk Willink's nomination. There is still a manifestation of political conflict of interest. BBB has proposed to appoint General out of service Peter van Uhm as an informant; at least at this stage of formation. Because this is about restoring trust between the parties. That has been explicitly mentioned. We think that Mr Van Uhm is really an expert on this matter and that there is no other person who can bring back peace and reflection between the parties. He can also take a fresh look at the situation and the way you get out of that impasse. He's got a hell of a record. He has a lot of experience in crisis situations. He's got a lot of life experience. He's authoritative. Surely we believe that someone like him can contribute to restoring trust between the parties. In fact, Mr Van Uhm is a specialist in providing strategic advice on crisis management to organisations in need. Well, that seems to apply here: an organization in need and in crisis. I will not table a motion on this because I have already noticed that there is little support for it. However, I would like to say it here and ask you to think carefully about this. For the rest, I hope that we can restore that confidence very quickly and that we can move forward quickly, because that is what the citizens are waiting for, but really with an open vision and an open vision. In any case, we support the Eerdmans motion for a resolution in order to make all the interview reports public. I'd like to stick with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. It is really the last time that you will simply take much more time than everyone else. You're a one-woman group. Everyone has the same speaking time, but it is not intended to be the other way round, let me put it this way. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say right away that I have had some criticism of the fact that I am using a laptop as a result of my previous contribution. I myself am very happy not to waste too much paper, so I will certainly continue to do so for the time being. Chaos, lying and rumbling: it really wasn't a free entry into the house of democracy. As I said last week, this is not just about trust; it is about the principles and foundations on which our democracy and the rule of law are built. These are the principles and foundations that are being systematically violated here, even in our Parliament. It is up to us, the Chamber, to take the lead in this. That is why it is good to see that today we are trying to bring the peace back into the process, that we reflect and reflect before we move on. And I'll be honest with you, too. The appointed informant, as brought in by Mrs Kaag, was not our first choice. For we prefer to see new names, new names that can represent a new policy to lead a process that was about to break us down with how it all went before. But we do not have any huge objections to this either, quite frankly. Because at some point it is less important who the auto mechanic is, but it is mainly about which parts he puts in the car that cause the engine either to run or to crash again. We, too, have introduced other names. Maybe it's nice to say that after all. I myself thought of Mr Brenninkmeijer as a former Ombudsman and of Mr Kim Putters; well, we all know what he is doing at the moment and he seems to me to be a good person to be involved in this process. But apparently there's a different decision. Once again, we do not have any major objections to this, because for us it is important that the engine starts running again and we cannot do that if we continue to pour sand into it. It's time to break up, break up with the Ruttedoctrines and break with lies and degradation policies. So it is also time to make the choice for a government without a VVD. My call here is: inform about the left and don't ever choose Rutte again. Because if the parties who present themselves as links think they can come out with the VVD, then surely we can do it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u188	You too have the same speaking time as everyone else. Then you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u189	Then I'll use the ten seconds in the minus to shut down now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Seriously, this isn't supposed to happen. If everyone has two minutes' speaking time, then everyone has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u192	Well... One-man or one-woman groups have no more rights than others. Let me just say that. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-06-tweedekamer-8.u193	I see on a note that there is a need for a ten-minute suspension before we vote. Then we vote at 5:55 p.m.
