ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	We continue with the debate on a privacy leak in the systems of the GGD and have arrived at the first term of the cabinet. I see Mr Verhoeven standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before we start, I have a question. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to interrupt the minister again. The first question is whether as a Chamber we really know everything there is to investigate, because last week the situation seemed very different than it is now. Secondly, there is talk in a number of documents of the cabinet about a secret risk analysis carried out by the GGD itself recently. My question is why it cannot be sent to the Chamber in one way or another, because it is an analysis on which a great deal is based when it comes to the follow-up actions. So the Chamber has to do with a risk analysis that's classified and then we're gonna talk about the minister's follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	I thought you had a point of order. But this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	It is a point of order to ask the Chamber to support me in making that risk analysis public wherever possible, with a possible response from the Minister first to the question of whether we really know everything. I am asking for this so that we can have a proper debate and send this secret piece to the Chamber in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yes. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I also see Mrs. Agema. Is that in addition to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven was ahead of me for a moment. In reply to my questions, the Minister refers to a letter dated 24 December explaining the risk analysis. Chain partners are working hard, the risk of data leaks is minimized, high-quality cybersecurity expertise is deployed. But he also states in that document that the risk analysis was carried out in concept on 11 December and, also after consultation with the NCSC, remains "confidential" because of the security reason. It seems to me that on 24 December the Minister knew much more than the summary report in this letter. I therefore support Mr Verhoeven's request. I would like to know what the Minister knew on 11 December. So we don't know, because this piece is kept secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	I think it's a good thing the Minister just gets the floor. Then he can answer this question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yeah, maybe that's useful. Otherwise I am not able to do the introduction in a good way, because these questions play. 'Cause I understand very well. Let me begin by saying that it is my duty to be as transparent as possible in the direction of your Chamber. The only limit on this is if this transparency puts the safety of the systems under pressure. That is why I follow the advice of the NCSC here and do not disclose the December risk analysis. It is good to explain that this risk analysis was carried out following an assignment by the chairman of the LCT, the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, I believe, November. That has also been explained to the Chamber. This was explained in the December letter, and also in the factual account as you received it. A risk analysis was then carried out. I did indeed describe the actions that result from this in the letter of December. That's what Mrs. Agema says. This leads to an improvement plan in the LCT this week. Meanwhile, it has also been up to the GGD to make a risk analysis of their own IT systems. That's a KPMG report. The same applies to both reports: they would put further pressure on the safety of the systems in the event of disclosure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	So in other words...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	That's why I can't make that public. Can I share it with the Room? That could be a fair question. Yes, you can, but only on the condition of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Look, if we don't want information to create a vulnerability in the systems, most of the Chamber will agree with the Minister. But I am very curious whether all that information in that piece really points to vulnerable parts of the systems that evil people are going to use, or, for example, a number of things that the Chamber should simply know, because things have gone wrong, because things have been taken carelessly, because too long has been waiting. If these things are put aside under the guise of security of systems and are not reported to the Chamber in a debate like this, then I do not approve of that. Then I think it is a solution to put it on the record. I would also like to hear colleagues talk about this, because it is always difficult to talk about confidential documents. You won't be able to use it in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yeah, that's always the case, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	So I am also curious about the opinion of others, but then we can at least look as a Chamber at whether there are things in it that the Minister can count on, regardless of system security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	You can't judge it because you haven't been able to see that piece. Your proposal is to see part of it confidentially and not to do so with what may be sensitive. That's what you're proposing? Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has clarified something now. In reply to Question 260, he says: 'The risk analysis that I sent to you on 24 December'. That bothers me, Mr President, so I would like to have it very clearly in the Acts before we move on to the point that the letter of 24 December does not clarify it. In itself, I think it is a good idea to see something confidential, but what I want to know is whether the Minister was at the same time aware of the data theft. The letter of 24 December does not give any openness. So what I don't want is for me to see, under confidentiality and secrecy, a letter stating that the Minister knew about data diary, and that I shouldn't use it in the debate. So I want to make it very clear that it is clearly communicated which parts of that letter contain sensitive information and which parts of that letter could actually be shared with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Would you like to respond briefly to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Yeah, I'd really like to respond to this in a few ways. The first is that I am going to stress once again that it is my duty to be as transparent as possible. That is the only way to regain the confidence that has been damaged. That is why, in this short time between last week and this week, in the department, in the reports and so on, I have given you everything that was between us and what we could find in annexes, in facts, both from the GGD and from the ministry of VWS. I tried to explain it in the letter as orderly as possible. Besides, things may have been overlooked. In addition, given the short time taken to get all these pieces on the table, things may have been missed. If so, I will inform the Chamber, because I want to be completely transparent. In addition, there are two reports of which the NCSC says: "These cannot be made public because of the vulnerability in the systems." They shouldn't be made public. This is about the risk analysis commissioned by the LCT and it is about an own risk analysis by KPMG on behalf of the GGD. I am prepared to share them in confidence, but I cannot allow those reports to become public, given the safety of those systems. For that, all repairs must be done and then I can see which part of them can or cannot be made public. Because if we don't, we're gonna make the systems too vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	I'm sorry, I can see all of you, but I still want to continue this debate. So I would nevertheless like to reach a conclusion that I hope everyone who shares, that the Minister now says: in principle, the reports would not be shared publicly, confidentially, and some of the information that is too risky is not shared. Am I saying it right? Yeah, I know you don't agree, but I'd still like to take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	So I can't make those reports public. I can share them confidentially with the Chamber. Later in time, perhaps some of this might be possible, if the safety risks described in that report are eliminated, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Whether you agree or not, you may say so, but I would like to continue with the debate. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	I am concerned that the basis should be that everything should be made public. If it turns out that certain passages cannot be made public because they endanger systems, then we should not do so. I think everyone agrees on that. But these are reports from the end of last year. In the meantime we are a lot further and there have been many vulnerabilities in the publicity: for example the export function, for example the print function.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yes, but now it's going to be a debate, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	No, no, no, no, Mr. Chairman, let me finish my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	If these documents state that this type of vulnerabilities should not be shared and should not be disclosed, that is outdated information, because we already have that information. So I think the starting point should be that these documents are public and can be shared with the Chamber, unless there are passages between them that must remain absolutely confidential. I've seen confidential pieces before, and it's really bothering me when you can't do anything with them, so we have to turn it around: first public and then see what really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Is he okay with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	I am not going here now, standing up for the debate, against the judgment given by the NCSC. NCSC says not public. That is the explicit instruction of the NCSC, and I am not going to judge it differently, standing up for the debate, because I cannot see it. When it comes to transparency, I fully agree with Mr Hijink. I want to be perfectly transparent about what didn't go well. That's why I sent everything I could find to the Chamber as much as I could. I've ordered it. You have all the facts that I know. They're in the letter and they're in the answers. They're in the story of the facts that's been sent along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	I imagine you're being robbed by such a question about confidentiality. Is it an idea that you are giving more information about the debate, or in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	That is a very good proposal. I know there are dozens of civil servants listening in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yeah, they're listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	I am going to explain in the second period how we can deal with this. In the meantime, I'm trying to get back to the NCSC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	Fine. I can see you at the interrupting microphone, but I'm not going to draw any conclusions, because that always triggers new discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	About your conclusion. My point was very clear, namely that the following is important. I understand that the Minister wants to share the sensitive parts in confidentiality, but if, for example, the Minister was aware of the data breach or of unsafe situations, then I do not think I should be forced to keep it confidential in advance. I'd appreciate it if you'd take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	In addition, it is of course crucial to know when it was advised to carry out those automatic checks. The Minister said: we already do, we didn't. For me it is very crucial whether already advised and committed to the AP to implement that by the end of December. He now writes in the letter: we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	That is what I am going to talk about, including what I said about it in Question Time and what I should have said. So I'll get to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. I think it is right to start this debate on the part of the Cabinet by stressing that people should be able to rely at all times on the safe sharing and safe storage of medical data. It is precisely because of the privacy-sensitive nature of this data that this is important. The message that people have offered data sets with personal data from the GGD systems HPZone and CoronIT is a very serious message. I regret that this has been possible, because if there has actually been trade in personal data, it is, first and foremost, very serious for the people who could be the victims of it. Two. This has, of course, led to unrest, which could possibly affect people's confidence in the whole test policy and in how data is handled in that test. A third reason why it is a serious fact is that this affects confidence in all the employees of the GGD, including the thousands of employees who work in good faith every day. That is why it is serious and the cabinet deeply regrets it. I'll divide my questions in three in a moment. Block one, how could it have come to this, what signals did I have and what are we going to do about it? The heart of the debate, I think. A second important point in the debate is the victims and the restoration of confidence. A number of questions will also be answered by Mr Dekker, my colleague in the Legal Affairs Committee, in particular on the legal framework. Then I have some other questions and Mr Dekker goes into the AP afterwards. The more general questions about the AP, but also the AP in this issue. Mr. Chairman. Before I answer the questions, I would like to correct a number of things about last week's response to oral Question Time. I said a number of things at the time, which I should have said differently. One is that I have said that since the start of the pandemic, the GGD has been continuously monitoring the use of the systems. This has given the impression, I know, that there is already an automated control, while the GGD has so far been subject to structural sampling. That's intensified, but we'll get to that in a minute. I said afterwards that these controls are also automated so that they can be carried out fully continuously. For the sake of clarity, I could have said that this will not have been achieved until March. That's one. Two is that I should have been clearer about the NEN standard. I said that the GGD, the system of the GGD, complies with the last NEN standard. Although that is strictly true, the system complies with that standard, I should have stated more clearly that this is true for the software platform, but that the organisation of the GGD GHOR is not yet fully NEN certified. They'll prepare for that. Finally, I should like to say that I think it is the most important thing for Members of Parliament, and I have also heard you say in the first term that a crime, a crime, is not a herb. Now that I have put everything together in the last few days, what was known when what was planned was done and what has not yet been done, you should at least say: there was more herb against crops. As the chairman of the GGD himself said: opportunity makes the thief. Mrs. Agema had a quote from Jacob Cats. Maybe I should have used that quote as well, because indeed, if you give the opportunity so clearly, it is still a crime, and in the end no herb was washed against a crime, but there was a lot more herb against crops here. I would like to put that right before the debate in the direction of your Chamber, Mr President. Then I start with: how did we get here and what measures are needed? I think it's important to think about that. With the outbreak of the pandemic, a number of you have also referred to it. This was necessary in order to meet the huge demand for tests and for source and contact research. Source and contact research was the classic task of the GGD. Testing was actually a new task for the GDD, at least in this form. They have taken on this new task in the first place because that pandemic was raging all over the world and we in the Netherlands, just as in all countries, were in no way capable of meeting a pandemic of this magnitude. It's literally a figuratively an unprecedented pandemic. So testing on the coronavirus on the current scale is new and so a new IT system had to be built head-on. That's CoronIT. Two: source and contact research is not a new task. They've been doing that for a while. Only, from time to time, source and contact research was done in the event of a small outbreak. Who made use of that system HPZone? Those were the doctors' infectious disease control. They used that system. That old system had to be used by thousands of people at once instead of occasionally for a small-scale outbreak. This is what HPZone Lite was developed for, to make it possible for a nationwide team of source and contact researchers to get started after the scaling-up. I think that when we all look back at those debates back then, the debates here, but also the conversation in society, we all recognize things: those tests had to be kicked out of the ground quickly and the source and contact research had to be scaled up very quickly, with a lot of staff. For example, a lot of attention has been paid to functionality, the enormous speed of up and running times, business continuity, the prevention of malfunctions, user-friendliness, you needed to be able to make a test voice online and pass on your own contacts and improve them. There was also attention to privacy and data security, but, as it turns out, insufficient. We've been able to find a data diary. This means that the focus on data security has not been sufficient. Weren't there signals before? Yeah, there were. I have reflected the signals that were known to us in the answer to the written questions that have been asked and in the letter. There were, of course, signals, sometimes in newspapers and sometimes a direct signal was reported. For example, there were signals at Nieuwsuur, not only about malfunctions in the IT system, but also about the extent to which several people could seek out contacts in the systems. A signal has been reported from the AD. The GGD informed me this week that one signal was formally received by the GGD GHOR Netherlands on 2 July. I have informed you as well as possible about signals I had before, but I really have to make a reservation here. There may well be more signals coming out later that have been there before. I just haven't been able to find it in the last few days. However, the most important moment for us to act was the moment when we had data failures more and more in the autumn. That is also what we have discussed here in the Chamber. We saw instability of systems. I explained to you that we had Osiris from the RIVM, HPZone for the source and contact research and CoronIT from the GD, and that the data exchange between those systems was quite unstable. This has been the reason for the president of the LCT to order a chain-wide analysis of the IT landscape, because if this goes wrong, his conviction was that if there is instability in data flows, then there will also be more wrong in the IT systems, which of course were not all fit for purpose from the beginning. That is how the analysis was commissioned. That led to the letter I sent you on December 24th. There are a number of elements mentioned, including data security and privacy. An improvement plan was then commissioned for this week. In between, the signal came through RTL from a week and a half ago. That's what got in the way. That includes similar observations about the things that had to be done. All the things that have been put into motion since the analysis was carried out have certainly not been waiting for an improvement plan to take place. I think it would be a good thing if I thought about all these measures, because a lot of questions have been asked about them. I understand that too, because that is, of course, at the heart of the debate. But let me take a break here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	Then I have Mrs Agema, Mrs Kröger, Mr Hijink and Mr Azarkan. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	The Minister talks about improvements to a system that he really wants to keep right. To do something as simple as a test, all these personal data must be collected. But at the same time, the Minister wants to scale up testing policy much further. He wants to test as much as possible, even as a way out of the crisis. My question to the Minister is: is this not sustainable in a system in which so much personal data is collected? Shouldn't he switch to a system that works much more easily, for example with a one-off code?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	There are a lot of questions here that are at the heart of this debate. I will conclude my reply in the direction of Mrs Agema, because I think I could take a big step in her direction. But first I want to start with the question that is often asked: why is a bsn-number actually used? The answer to that must be because it is legally compulsory. This is a treatment agreement within the meaning of the WGBO. It sounds a little heavy, but it's still a medical file that needs to be built up. A medical file has a bsn number. But you can also ask the question, and I also asked the GGD: after registration, couldn't you pseudonimize the bsn in the processing of the data, so you could use another code, so that you can work less with the bsn in the further processing of the data? I think, frankly, that that is possible, but I can't quite see that at the moment. However, I think that is possible and I have asked that question. But I think Mrs Agema is right to point out something else. This is about fighting the virus, this is about testing in the context of fighting the virus. We do a lot of tests in the fight against the virus. But of course we also want to use tests for another purpose. Mrs Agema asks: couldn't it be there in another way? My answer to that question is yes. I will, of course, give you more information about this when we are clear on how we should do it. But my idea of that is this. A test is just a medical procedure that includes a medical record. Again: this sounds too heavy, but that's what it is. But then, of course, you don't need to give yourself access to anything. All you need is proof of a negative test result. From that moment on, it's actually not a medical file anymore, but it's just a fact that you could get out of it and that you're offering to prove that you've been tested negative. That's all you need for access tests. So the solution that we are currently preparing is in such a way that it actually involves zero personal data more. All that's left is proof of a negative test result, just as a personal statement, without being a medical file.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	I am very much in the direction of a very strong and strong commitment by the Minister. However, there is still one thing that bothers me, namely that fact of the treatment relationship which is supposed to be entered into when taking a test. That's where it's really bothering me. If the police do an alcohol check and pull all motorists over, and let them all do a bladder test, then there's no record of that. No treatment agreement has been entered into, no bsn has been requested. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's only when someone's had too much to drink that there are consequences and things happen. My point is that we should've had a system where some kind of treatment relationship doesn't develop until you're tested positive. Otherwise, you're basically gathering information from people who aren't even infected and who you're not really dealing with after that. That information is also kept for another 20 years and is sensitive to privacy. So I think the Minister really needs to step back. He has to go back to: when am I actually going to enter into that treatment agreement, and when am I supposed to stop doing that in the future? I understand that he can't come back to that now, but I hope he can make a commitment that he will go into more detail. It should just be possible to use a single code with a bladder test... The Minister is still in the paper today with those blow-tests. I can't imagine that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	Oh, look at that. Those are the less fortunate pictures of a bladder test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	I can't imagine the Minister means you have to enter into a whole treatment agreement for this. So I'd like to hear about that. If we can't do it today, we might be able to do it at another time. In this way, we could achieve a much more low-threshold and less privacy sensitive system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm going to come back to this in two ways. First of all, I come back to the letter I can send you in about six weeks' time. That letter is about where we stand with all the measures we have planned. In that letter I come back to this, because indeed the question at the GGD was asked: how could you minimize the use of bsn? You do need personal data, but only those personal data that are legally required and only the personal data that you actually need to do the work properly. Target binding is therefore an important phenomenon in this respect. The target binding in the Wpg is quite broad, so the problem will not be there for the time being. But you also want the starting point of data Minimization there. You also want to make the starting point of as much pseudonym as possible. So I come back to the question of how it is indeed prescribed by law, and how it could be kept to a minimum. As far as access tests are concerned, I will come back to that earlier, because I would like to share with your Chamber how I see it. But I think it's good to know that the technique that we're currently preparing for that, at least doesn't use personal data, because that's actually not a medical file anymore, but just a negative result from that medical file, which you're using as a ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	Clear. Mrs Kröger has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	We've collected the privacy-sensitive data of millions of people, collected the GGD in a system that leaked as much as a basket. In the Minister's analysis, I actually hear two tracks. On the one hand, the analysis is: we were in a hurry, there was pressure on it and privacy is not good enough and not carefully secured enough. So carelessness versus speed. The other analysis is actually: in order for employees to be able to do their work effectively, a certain degree of access was needed. My question is, which one is it on? Where was the trade-off made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	The balance as it is made, of course, is not a conscious consideration, whereby you put several elements together on the scale and say: will we not take privacy into account for a moment today? That's not how I traced it. It is true that everything that gets attention grows. What had the most attention at that time? That was the speed at which one could scale up, the speed at which even more people could be put to work in the source and contact research, it could work practically with a very large group that you place nationwide and that can also assist regionally. We have talked a great deal about this, even here in the Chamber. So that had the most attention. I also saw this in the contact between the department and the GGD, between us as the client and the GGD GHOR, the national GGD organisation, as the contractor. That's what it was about: can it be faster, more, harder and better? That was actually always the content of the conversation. There wasn't enough attention that wasn't at all absent; not at all for privacy. I also heard the debate on this with Mr Veldman, and I think we should be careful to make that a contradiction. You didn't, by the way. It is not a contradiction. It is not either safety or health or privacy. It is not, but there is a certain trade-out, because if you pay a great deal of attention to the user-friendliness or the practical feasibility of a system, the security of data may be at stake or the attention may decrease. That hasn't been good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	Now, on the one hand, the Minister says that we should not pretend that it is a contradiction, but on the other hand he says that this is the case, while privacy by design is the prerequisite for the system that we use to store the data of new people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	So that has not been pre-conditional.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	Yeah, that's right. That's for sure. Of course, these two systems are slightly different. At HPZone, you can say that in the origin of the system, that system was developed in 2003 and is used by almost all GMDs, it was never intended for this type of use. HPZone has been intended for an exquisite club of doctors infectious disease control, a small club that uses it, with all the safeguards necessary. It's never meant for thousands of source and contact researchers, even outside, who could be in the system. The system has not been suitable for that at all. At CoronIT there has been attention to privacy, even from the beginning. I'm not saying it's a trade-out between one or the other. I'm not saying it's a contradiction either. Here's what I'm gonna say. If I look back at what the department has talked most about with the GGD regarding CoronIT or even testing and tracing at all, then that was about: can it be faster, can there be more, can it be better et cetera? So that was much more the content of the conversation than the privacy. I think that this has been an underexposed issue, but I would like to agree with Mrs Kröger that it is not a contradiction. I think that privacy by design is not for nothing the way to get to IT, especially to IT in government hands and in the hands of health care. That's what we did with that app, for example. And the app that is now being built, GGD Contact, goes exactly the same way. The access test app is created in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	So I hear from the Minister that the talks between VWS and GGD privacy have not been sufficiently addressed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	...and that it's all about speed. When it comes to speed and haste, I really do not understand that a subject that has been dealt with both internally and externally a number of times, that export function, has ended up in 24 hours, I think. Then there was another new news item from the NOS: boom, the print function was off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	Apparently, therefore, we can act very quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	... as long as the pressure is high enough. How come those earlier signals didn't generate that pressure? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	Because everything else calls attention and asked. That is, of course, a bit of the point in this crisis. That would be my explanation. That's more of an explanation. It's not an excuse, on the contrary. It's an explanation, because I hear the question explaining as well. Everything's important. Everything is important, everything must be done tomorrow, everything must be done faster, more, harder, better et cetera, all the time, for a year. The GGD is also in that way in a time of crisis. Reflecting on the past Christmas vacation I can say that I have been in endless conversation with the GGD, really every day, about vaccination and how it could be kicked out of the ground faster and how we could start vaccination faster. That was my conversation in the whole Christmas party with the G.D.D. I share with Mrs Kröger, because that is how I hear her, the question of whether it should not have been given more attention. The answer to that question is simply "yes, it should have gotten more attention."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	I don't quite understand what the minister just said. He's actually saying that we haven't picked up all the signals that have been indicating that the systems are leaking since the summer. Only when it appeared in the autumn that there were too many malfunctions in the contact between the RIVM and the GGD's, voices went up that said: "Oh, if there are a lot of malfunctions, there may also be many other problems with the system." That's really weird, isn't it? Why was there not a direct response at those moments, after the Nieuwsuur broadcast, when the AD came with the news and when the report came to the GGD itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	I asked myself that question, of course. I can only get back from that, as I see it in Hindsight, that at the moment when such a signal came to us via the media, we asked the GGD sometimes also because you asked Parliament questions about this and whether this signal was picked up. Yeah, was the answer to that. This in itself is true in the division of tasks, because it is of course the case that the IT systems are of the GGD. Data processing is primarily the responsibility of the data controller. But, I'm telling you, shouldn't I have been on top of this myself? And I say this a little bit to get ahead of Mr Hijink, and then I would agree with him again. The answer to that question is yes. Not because I am responsible for the systems of the GDD, but because these kinds of messages can, of course, also damage confidence in the test policy as a whole and for that system and I am ultimately responsible for that test policy. So, yeah, I should have been on top of that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	I remember the debate we had here in April/May. The GGD felt overwhelmed by the way this minister dealt with the GGD. The GGD had to hear per press conference that new groups had to be able to be tested first. It was not just about the speed with which that happened, but also about the lack of cooperation. The Minister is responsible for the rigging of such systems. The Minister must follow how the G.D.D. does that, right? The Minister and the Ministry must also receive the signals, especially if this is measured so widely at Nieuwsuur in September, that the system is as leaky as a basket? There's got to be some kind of alarm bells going off, right? There must be people at the Ministry who think, "Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, This place is gonna be a mess. If we don't watch out now, there's gonna be a lot of data on the street. We need to take the G.D.D.'s now to get the table to close that hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	I'm gonna go back, though. Also then, I said of those messages from individual DPGs that felt ambushed by this: I made this type of appointments, of course, with the GGD, the appointments that I reported to the Chamber, which I reported in press conferences. Only "the" GGD "which may be a post-crisis discussion "is the total of 25 GGDs with an umbrella organisation; that is "the" GGD. It may well be that not all employees of all these GGDs are equally aware of the arrangements that have been made centrally. However, Mr Hijink is of course right. That is precisely what I am saying about the signals that, for example, were sent to us via the General Daily Journal and via Nieuwsuur (Nieuwsuur), I believe, in September and the General Daily Report in October. We said, "GD, are you working on this? Pick this up, because this is important." That's the kind of communication I can trace. We have not been enough on top of that by asking what exactly they are going to do and whether they have done as much as they can. On the one hand, you can ask whether that is my job, because those systems are not ours. That's right. On the other hand, you could also say and I think you say it: we should have been able to come to the conclusion at that time that it can touch on the trust that people have in the system of testing. That makes me think now, with what I know now, that I should have been on top of it more sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u65	I am left with the question of what would have happened if there had not been a smart journalist at RTL who had brought this problem to the table. I'm afraid nothing had changed at all. I'm afraid we would've had a system up until the summer, two systems leaking like a basket. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u66	No, I don't share that, and I'll explain that. In November, the president of the LCT, overlooking the entire test data landscape, said: this is too much string. I say it way too homely, but you know what I mean. He said that data doesn't always come through and we need to get the basics in order, because this isn't going well. This included data security and privacy protection. That analysis was made for a reason. We made it on behalf of the LCT. A directing group was then set up under the LCT with all partners throughout the test chain, laboratories, GGD's and RIVM, which is currently working on this. It's all about the digital support of testing and tracking. After the analysis, that group was instructed to come forward with an improvement plan. The improvement plan is on the table in the LCT on Thursday, but of course I understood myself with the president of the LCT. I see that the content of the improvement plan corresponds to what needs to be done, the same observation as that Daniel Verlaan of RTL did. You ask whether it would have come to light without the journalist. Of course, I never know if it would have come to light in full and with the same power. That's why I'm grateful to him for the call. I think it's sensitive when I say that, but I'm glad it's been reported that the news has been brought. I'm happy because I can work with that. But I do see that the things that need to be done by this are in my view consistent with the things that are also in the improvement plan. Of course, I will inform you about the improvement plan. I will then inform you about the audit we're going to do in six weeks to see if everything really happened. I'm about to deal with all the measures we're taking. I think it's important to say that we were in the process of getting that IT infrastructure in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u67	I understand that the Minister says 'I would like to go to the measures', but with all due respect that is not the core of this story. If you read the measures correctly now, you can only come to the conclusion that they are, as a whole, excellent measures. The problem is that we should have taken it somewhere in the beginning or at least halfway through the year. That's what the discussion is about. This minister is getting signals in June. People could look up massively. G.D.D.s who worked at the G.D.D. for a long time were worried. They saw new people coming in and they could look up everything from friends, from acquaintances, from well-known Dutchmen from home and had no restrictions. The minister says that at the time those signals came, he asked the GGD GHOR to pick it up. The answer was "we do." My question is: how does it show that this has been followed up? What did the Minister then do to ensure that 6.5 million people may not have lost their data some time later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u68	That's the last thing we need to talk about. You need to be a little more precise about that. But I'm gonna start with the first one. It's good to find out what signals there were. I have described everything that is known to me in the letter. I've already promised that if there were more to be known in the near future, I'll report it. For the department it was about two signals: one via Nieuwsuur and one via the Algemeen Dagblad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u69	And the Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u70	What I wrote in the letter, anyway. But no signals in June. That hasn't been the case. Then, of course, I had contact with the GGD about this, for example, because you asked questions about it in the Chamber. Then I asked the GGD to pick this up. That's what was then picked up. But I am saying now, knowing what the impact might have been, that I said that I should have gone after Mr Hijink in the direction of Mr Hijink in order to see how you would have handled it and what the result was. It's not like we shouldn't have a picture of the GGD dealing with it carelessly, quite the contrary. I know a lot of DPGs that pay a lot of attention to privacy protection. However, in the multitude of tasks invested in the GD, also in the multitude of tasks that the Ministry and the GD's have to understand with each other, this has not been at the top of the pile. And that should have happened with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u72	The second point I would like to make is that it is a bit of an excuse. The Minister says that we had a lot of other things to do, everything was a priority, the country had to be saved, and that meant that we were less aware of this. Now I read what the Minister suggested regarding the plan of action to close that data breach. He said that we can do that without affecting the approach to corona. My question is why these things could not be implemented in September? Set up an audit team. Provide expertise. At some point in time, saying that something is going to happen here that we have never done, perhaps it is wise that I should ask some experts from the Audit Service Empire or from the ICT environment to go there and see what is happening there, because there are signs that it is just not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u73	I should have been better on top of those signals. That's from back then. What we did then, on the contrary, is that the LCT is under the responsibility of VWS....................................................................................................................................................................................... Then a team was brought in with all data processors throughout the testing chain, consisting of experts from the Empire and from external expertise, who had to look at what's going on. They've come up with a report. We have just discussed this report. On the basis of that report, the NCSC said: better but not share. All kinds of improvements have emerged from this. These improvements have now been converted into an improvement plan to be adopted this week. And in the meantime, they have actually started working on these actions. The question is, could we have done that before? Should we have done that sooner? My answer to that question is: yes, it should have been sooner. But how come it didn't happen before? This is not an excuse to say that we have been in crisis for a year...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u74	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u75	... and that all the time, we are pushing harder and better at the GGDs and have not paid the same attention to all aspects every day. We have not paid sufficient attention to privacy and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u76	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u77	Finally. The Minister also says: at the end of last year, we had already had quite a look at how to do it; we saw the risks and we were working on them. But then it must also be the Minister's assessment to say at some point that if the risk is so great, then we should do it as the weed. I find it indicative that there is so long waiting for things to go wrong, and that it can then be done. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u78	I think I let you know in December what our findings were based on the analysis. I also let you know what we were going to do with that. So I think I agree with Mr Azarkan when he says that I should have paid more attention to that from the start. I'd agree with that. I would also agree with Mr Azarkan when he says that there were several signals in the autumn, in September and October, which you left very much to the GGD, and shouldn't you have interfered a little more closely with that? I agree with him. But we gave the order to come to that analysis in November. This led to a result in December, in the middle of December, I believe. I then shared that result with your Chamber at the end of December, which led to an improvement plan being adopted this week, with several actions already underway. Then I think we have done exactly what we should have done since November. Could we have done that sooner and should we have done it sooner? My answer to that question is: yes, it could have been done earlier and it should have been done sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u79	I'm going to see Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u80	I can see how it went in the speed. I understand the choices for information. I also understand that the Minister says he should have been on top of it more. But I still don't understand the pace of action of the GGD, also in combination with the acting of VWS. At the start of the CoronIT an analysis has already been made of information security and privacy. There must have been some kind of risk. That was June. So why didn't they act proactively back then? In September we will read back in the minutes: should we not inform the Chamber more proactively? In the end, that didn't happen, but it didn't just fall out of the sky. The GGD knows, therefore, that there are risks from June onwards. Important officials from VWS know that, too. Those are the same people we saw on camera at the CoronaMelder. The question remains: why have more stringent safety measures not already been taken in September, October or November? It was certainly known in November, but action was only taken last week. That question is still unanswered, however annoying it is that we are asking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u81	That's not annoying, but I think that's right. If I had to reconstruct it for myself, then it's not like there hasn't been any attention to it. Although attention has been paid to this issue, VWS has assumed, in its role as the client, that the GGD was therefore working as a contractor and as a client for the construction of those systems in a way that was also appropriate. I know and I also see that all kinds of actions have been taken to make it safer. But what you also see is that in those discussions, also internally at the GGD, several aspects played a role that were competing with each other for priority. This has to do with user-friendliness and the way in which systems could support the work that had to be done. If I look more in reflection at what VWS did then in the direction of the GGD, then that is in particular the conversation about how to scale up even faster in the source and contact research and how to scale up even faster in testing. The conversation wasn't enough about: are you sure you're doing everything you can to ensure privacy? In short, I don't think anything happened. I think that quite a lot of steps have been taken by the GGD itself, but that VWS, in its role of client, has not had sufficient attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u82	Okay, so U.S. officials have known about the risks, but they were so busy just scaling up that they left this for good. At least they didn't act on it, while the risks were insightful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u83	Well, there were signals before, of course. "The risks" is very broad. There were signals from Nieuwsuur, from the Algemeen Dagblad and................................................................................................................................................. There were also questions from the Chamber. We have answered these questions by asking the GGD: how about that and can you help us answer them? But that's different than sitting very close to it and making agreements about how you're gonna fix it, checking if it's solved, et cetera. You can say two things about that. One: it doesn't have to be, because in the division of responsibility, that's just the systems of the GGD. That's partly true. Two: but because it could have had an impact on people's confidence in testing as a whole, I think I should have been closer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u84	It's really important, but I keep hearing the same answers. The questions are repeated, as in the first term. You get the same answer over and over again. Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm mainly trying to figure out what, when it comes to this kind of big data systems, is needed to fix the checks-and-balances. Despite the fact that VWS officials were at the table, despite having provided technical briefings on which questions have been asked, among others by Mrs Agema and Mr Öztürk of DENK, they did not say: we do not know. That was really the middle of December. That shows those checks-and-balances aren't enough. The second and final point is that, despite the thorough analysis in December, it then took until the end of January to remove a number of simple security aspects, such as export and print functions. It took media pressure to do that. My question is therefore genuine: why did it take another month?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u86	I can only answer that question by saying: yes, I also think that this should have been done sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u87	I appreciate that the Minister says that we have made a very complicated assessment and that has resulted in a number of things that have led to this problem. He wants to go all the time to the actions that are going to make for improvement. But over the last few hours, I've been getting some signals from people who say that exporting to different GMDs is still possible. The letter explicitly states that this export function would have been deactivated. We could do that right after all the publications last week. But that export still seems to be possible. Can the Minister ask his people whether this is actually going to be concluded at the same time? Because otherwise we're really having a debate... The second point concerns the same thing. It has been said: we have the automatic full checking of the loggings, so checking who can enter which systems and who has done what transactions in what way, by March in order. That's what the Minister wrote. But at the end of the year, the GGD promised the Personal Data Authority that it would be in order by the end of 2020. I think it is very good to look back at the way events took place, but during this debate on taking measures that can solve problems, I get signals from different sides that it should have been in order or long ago, because that was promised months ago, or that the export of large quantities of data can still be done with at least two GGDs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u88	As for the first thing: I can't see that from here. I hear your signal and I know that there are a few dozen officials listening to this signal. I think they're gonna make a call; at least that's what I'd like to suggest to them. If I have an answer in the second term, I will give you that answer. I think it's important to check this out. Maybe you want to be so kind to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u89	...to share the signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u90	Yeah, to tell you outside the broadcast which GGDs they are, otherwise we're gonna have to make 25 calls. In addition, you say about logging that I promised that to the AP. But I didn't promise anything to the AP. I hear you now saying it's about the G.D.D. Exactly. And by the way, logging is of course done. Checking that logging is also done. That was the dispute surrounding Question Time. It shall be carried out on a random basis. This has been intensified over the past week to daily sampling, with a team internally and a team externally. The evidence of logging is in him that the GGD has thrown out 30 people. Why did people start to check harder? That was in response to those earlier signals from, among other things, Nieuwsuur. Therefore, more stringent controls have been carried out and this has led to the dismissal of people. Yes, indeed, it has to be fully automatic. For this purpose, the systems need to be adapted. What I hear from the GGD, learn and know, is that it will not succeed until March. This fully automatic logging screening can only take place then. Until then, however, daily, and in that sense also continuously, is controlled by an internal and an external team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u91	For calling about the export function: The Hague and Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u92	That helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u93	Of course, I can't tell you how I know this, but I've heard this and of course I want this handled in good faith as well as possible in a way that we can close that data lock and multiply all that data right away. That's what we've read here and what we've been promised. About automatically checking the logging: if you do that on a random basis, you miss a lot of transactions. The Minister writes in several places that a large number of actions have been verifiable and insightful. But that's random. If you could fire 30 people based on samples, then maybe you could have known a lot more based on fully automatic and checking all logging. So that didn't happen. Based on signals, the AP said to the GGD in September: we want to know what is going on and we want to know how you adhere to the GDPR. The GGD then promised that the fully automatic logging would be in order by the end of 2020. That's what the G.D.D. promised. Now it is said that it will not be possible until March. I am not saying that the Minister has all said things wrong, and I can see that it is a chain of responsibilities that Mrs Van den Berg was talking about. But I'm standing here in the Chamber debating with this minister. All I can do is ask him what's going on. And so we seem to need three more months to get the full automatic checking of logging in order, which is crucial in order to be able to test safely on the basis of the old system in the coming months. So perhaps the Minister will have to make another call about this with the GGD, with the dome of the GGD or with whoever is responsible for getting this right. Otherwise we will all be looking back, and in a few weeks we will be able to debate again and look back at what has been said by the Minister in the coming weeks. I still think he's completely in good faith, trying to do his job well, can't have all the information, has incredibly much pressure to test tests, which he's been doing for over a year. But he has to make sure he's okay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think I'm Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u95	Hooves. No, he doesn't often participate in these kinds of debates, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u96	Yes, Mr Verhoeven, thank you. I think I can reassure him that the check on the login is daily, by a large team. Control has been greatly increased, and that increases the chance of getting caught. And I think that'll help. I would like to say, in defence of the GGDs, that since this autumn I have put many incredibly many questions, including in the IT field and on enlargement, at the GGD, among other things, and we have had a whole debate on this acceleration of the vaccination operation, which also required a considerable IT effort to be ready for that. But also this one should just be done, so that will be done fully automatically. And until then, there will be large-scale checks on a daily basis, team-internal and team-external. Could it be faster? I've made sure that it couldn't be done faster than that fully automatic in March, but until then I've been told this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u97	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u98	As far as I am concerned, we are having this debate because, on the basis of questions from my fellow Members just before me, all of whom were rightly looking back, we found that there was a culture of speed: hasty, under pressure, scaling up functionality and capacity as quickly as possible. And we must now move towards a culture of careful balance in which privacy and data protection and civil rights are protected. And so it really needs to be ensured by the Minister on all fronts in that chain that everything is completely closed, that all the parts he has now mentioned are actually done in his letter, because otherwise it is really nothing at all, this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u100	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van den Berg. No, Mrs Kröger has already been extended. So, Mrs van den Berg. Yes, Mrs. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u101	How many interruptions do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u102	Well, I don't really want to limit it, because sometimes it's also about factual information. But I do retain the right to, if it keeps repeating itself... Because the minister has been standing here for almost an hour now, and he's still looking back at where it went wrong, and he's admitted outbursts of what went well and what didn't go well. But I also want to continue, because we have other debates, we have a minister, and the minister is here tomorrow, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u103	Of course, Mr President, and I am fine with Mrs Van den Berg going ahead, but I would very much like to ask a question, and as President, you can assume that this is not a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u104	Okay, then you'll have the opportunity to ask one question, at least at this point. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister just indicated that the head of the test chain actually indicated to the minister: we really need to look at this. And the minister used the words "a little bit of string is in place." Well, it's a good thing that at least that happened. But what I do worry about is whether it is much better secured within the GGD. Because in the end, it's someone from the Ministry's testing chain who's been ringing the bell, not someone at the GGD itself. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yes, I can. Look, the GGD itself is of course part of that test chain, and an important player in that test chain. In addition to the chain-wide analysis, he also had a KPMG report drawn up. This also results in improvement actions, i.e. both from the chain-wide improvement plan and from the KPMG plan, and in fact it is the same, and actually the same, that we are exchanging here. So the good news is that all that is rather congruent with each other. And yes, the GGD is busy doing so, with all kinds of actions that I will explain in a moment. So there's plenty of action on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u107	Okay, but maybe I just misunderstood that, but I understand that KPMG's investigation was also started as a result of the fact that in the test chain the head of the test chain said: it's not going very well. So it didn't occur to the GGD itself to pick that up, and that's actually what I'm looking for to better secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u108	However, this is without prejudice to the fact that actions have already been taken on the basis of previous signals. So it's not like that's what's been waiting for. Mr Verhoeven just referred to the earlier signal from Newsuur, and then also the AP that has reported, and then the contact that has been made between the GGD and the AP. At that time, checks were stepped up on the login, and it was also said that the system would be changed even further, namely that this would also be done on a continuous basis. That was all from an earlier date. So it's not that you have to wait for a report to do sensible things, and it's not that any sensible things happen then. The question we now have to answer is: was it enough? And the answer to that question is, no, it wasn't enough, and it needs to be better. And that's what we're gonna do. So maybe it's good to explain those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u109	But I promised Mrs Kröger that she could ask another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yeah, at this point. We have now talked extensively about how privacy from the Ministry has not received sufficient attention in contact with the GGD. We asked Parliament questions in September. That was answered in November. In it, the Minister writes that there is a sharp check on the logging: "By logging carefully, which files are carefully tracked by whom?" With the knowledge of today, the Minister will admit that this is an incorrect answer. Has there been incorrect information from the GGDs? 'Cause I'm guessing that information's coming from someone. Did the GGDs wrongly inform the Ministry about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u111	I hesitate to say yes to that. Of course, for my information I had to go to the GDD. At the same time, at the end of the day, I am always responsible for the answers I give you. So I'm not gonna blame anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u112	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u113	Then I think it is important, also because, of course, there are many people who may be concerned, to briefly highlight what actions are being taken to close the gaps in the short and in the slightly longer term. The first is that HPZone is limited and replaced as soon as possible by a system that meets all security and privacy requirements. I'll be right back to the letter I received this morning from Jaap van Dissel, from the Centre for Infectious Disease Control. We really need to do something with that. But in any case HPZone is limited and replaced as soon as possible. Two. The print and export functions are either disabled in both systems or kept accessible only to a select group of specialists in the infectious disease control that they need for their work. Three. Access in search options is restricted. Four. Since January 24, internal and external teams have been working daily to identify suspicious patterns and follow up suspicious behavior. They will continue to do so until the automatic logging check is implemented. That increases the odds of getting caught. Five. External IT experts are now examining the system further. Six. The Vog administration will be put in order as soon as possible. And seven. There's a forensic investigation going on, which is necessary to see who's been acting illegally when looking at different traffic jams. The second point is expertise. The GGD has asked me to offer expertise in the field of privacy and information security for the elaboration and implementation. In the coming week, a core team will start with the substantive expertise, also from the GGD. A core team is being set up to ensure that everything that has to be done actually happens. The safety requirements to be applied may also be carefully considered. The third point is that we are going to steer tighter. The recommendations of the risk analysis and the KPMG report should be implemented more rapidly. That is quite a number of recommendations. They are all about information security and privacy, but also about data, stability and future stability. The GGD reports its progress weekly in the director group digital support testing and tracking. It reports to the president of the LCT, and it reports back to me. So we're on top of that weekly. Finally, an external audit. In six weeks' time, if all the improvement actions have to be carried out, I would like to instruct the GGD to look in depth, not only at the analysis, but also at the approach and execution, learning from the fact that the execution is the very thing that matters and is decisive for whether or not it has happened. The improvement plans are being worked on across the chain, so apart from the GGD, also on this improvement plan. It will be sent tighter. Of course, with all these measures, it has not been resolved in one day, but we will see what can happen as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions, as far as this block does not yet answer. Why was the export function not removed from the system until last week? This was a question from the Labour Party. This export function was used for various activities, such as the creation of datasets, for statistical analyses and for the distribution of work. In retrospect, insufficient account has been taken of the risks involved. Of course, that's not good. The data breach was the reason for most of the expansion of the export function. Now the export function is no longer accessible to all BCO employees, but only to a small group of specialists, such as IZB doctors and nurses. That's actually just a few people per GGD. Mr Azarkan asks: are there any more bodies coming out of the closet? Well, of course you don't. I've shared all the knowledge I have with you. If there are any additional signals coming up, I will share them with you in addition. I have taken steps to solve all the problems and I think it is important to say here that we will do everything in transparency. So everything I know about the data security of this type of system, and what needs to be done about it, I will share with the Chamber, as far as the security of the systems allows, of course. We just talked about that. Then Mr Verhoeven asks: are these four lines of action sufficient? I believe that with a number of security safeguards, we will at least prevent it from being insufficient. The first is that there is a red team, a support team from VWS at the GGD to work with the GGD-IT's to see what might be additional necessary. That's the first thing. Those are very good people, I can add. The second is that after six weeks we do an external audit of everything that has happened. Did the analysis work and is it actually complete? Is the approach to providing a real answer to that analysis sound? And are all the measures that were planned actually executed? As a result of this audit, I hope to be able to inform you in about six weeks' time whether the answer to that question can be absolutely yes. Then the CDA asks about the culture. It goes a little too far for me to want to see a culture in which it is considered unimportant or in which one ignores signals, or whatever. I really don't think that's the case. What matters here is that there is a multitude of tasks on the board of the GGD and there are only 24 hours in a day. That's not an excuse, again, but an explanation. This also applies to the department of VWS in relation to the GGD. We have so many topics in common with the GDD to discuss and solve, that this was not on the agenda every day and certainly not at the top of the agenda. That's reprehensible, you might say. That's gotta be different, you could say. I think we learned our lesson at that point. In any case, that cultural aspect, i.e. whether people can use signals internally, can also be involved in the audit. So I'm gonna ask the auditors to take that, too. Mr President, I think I have had most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u114	You shouldn't have said that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u115	No, that's very unwise. But I'm also gonna talk to you real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u116	See if there were any questions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u117	In any case, I have already answered a great deal, at least when it comes to the measures to be taken. Now I'm going to the next block about what we're gonna do with victim support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u118	Then I have Mr Hijink, Mrs Agema, Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs Van den Berg. I hear Mr Verhoeven saying that he also wants to be on the list. I have you on the list, too, but I see people you don't see. I have a separate overview. First Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u119	A great concern that remains with us is that many organisations have become involved in these two systems. I think that's one of the reasons why things could have gone so wrong. The written answer to our questions states that not only the 25 GGDs, but also certain temporary employment agencies and other private companies have access to both systems. They can also create accounts and authorize people to share and process data themselves. If you're working with so many parties, and it might be even more, then of course there's a huge risk. You're gonna have to ask for leaks. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u120	I certainly agree that if you would like to work with a lot of people in a system, with a very large group of national support that comes up regionally each time, and sometimes comes up in several regions, which indeed leads to too many people who can enter a system. So you're gonna have to compartmentate it tighter. That is also one of the measures that is being taken. Perhaps in this context it would be good to share the concern of the National Coordination of Infection Disease Control here as well. Because I forgot a question. You have CoronIT on one side and you have HPZone on the other. HPZone is that system that was actually built in 2003 for a rather specialist activity. In the Netherlands you only have a very small group of doctors IZB, so doctors anti-infectious disease. They use HPZone to analyze a cluster. Different elements from source and contact research come together. Then it becomes a cluster and then it is analyzed. Then they look: who infected who, when and in what order? Sometimes even, in the case of a larger cluster, there is sequencing and it is examined which strains are within that cluster. That's how we find out who infected who. That's HPZone. That's the system that supports that work. But that's the full version of HPZone. HPZone light is used for this purpose. This is mainly about entering source and contact information instead of being able to review all the data of others. In short, is there no other way? Can't you just leave HPZone for the doctors to fight infectious disease? By the way, not HPZone Lite but HPZone so for a very small group? And can't you use something completely different to introduce the data you would like to extract from source and contact research? The GGD Contact app has been under development for some time. It was initially intended to support the work of the GDD. I mentioned it at the same press conference in which I also announced the other app. You remember that. That app is then further developed into a system that could actually serve that source and contact research without providing access to all data from the source and contact research. I think that's how it's supposed to work. There's just a warning coming in. That is Mr Van Dissel's warning. He says on behalf of the LCI, the National Coordination Infection Disease Control: beware, don't throw away old shoes until you have new ones. That's how I read his letter. He says, "Watch out, because we do need that data because we're at the heart of the disease control. So we can't afford to run out of HPZone for a few weeks, because then our cluster analysis doesn't add up. Then the whole data processing doesn't add up anymore, and we need it in the analysis of things like: how is the British variant, who infected who in a large cluster, et cetera. I think we have that letter to take seriously. The doctors have sent a similar letter. What I have to do is to see if there is a solution that meets their concerns and concerns, because these are legitimate concerns; we really need to take the specialists seriously on this point, and meet the need to give a lot less people access to much less data. Both will have to be done, and both in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u121	We agree on that. So I have that concern, too, when I look at all the organizations that have access. That is, for example, a foundation that hangs under VNO-NCW. SOS International has access, Unique, Yacht, the National Service Window Testing, the Red Cross, Teleperformance, the 25 GGD's. It's a whole laundry list of organizations that have access to CoronIT and that can also add and authorize people to share data. My concern is that if we start to test any more, perhaps more organisations will be added. How, then, is the Minister going to control that someone still has an overview of which people are being added and what rights these people have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u122	I don't think that app as it's going to work actually gives access to such a bay of information anymore, because that's what's necessary. You need to reduce the use of personal data at all to just the personal data that is strictly necessary for the work you need to do. That's one. Two is that you want to work with a range of organizations because otherwise you simply do not have enough people to carry out that multitude of tasks. Of course, we have talked about this regularly: why don't you scale it up, why don't you include that initiative and that initiative? We have done so, with a very large pool of people to exhaust and an unlikely amount of source and contact researchers. But that is without prejudice to minimising the use of data. I think you can do both things by compartmentalizing tightly and by very tightly regulating the authorization. There was another question, I thought of Mrs Kröger, whether that authorization will be lifted per GD, no, surely, can't that be national? Yes, the authorisation policy must be national and then who clicks which button, I do not know, but the authorisation policy must of course be determined nationally, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u123	When it comes to information security, should the GMDs have already been certified for the NEN 7510?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u124	I knew they were working on it, I also know that the system already is, and if they should have been, I honestly don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u125	I think you'll get back to that with information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yeah, I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u127	I keep hearing the Minister say that they're working on it. I find that somewhat vague, because I read in a letter from GGD Gelderland-Zuid, for example, that they do not want to be certified until 1 January 2022. That's a year from now. I don't think that's quite the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u128	I have to come back to that. I do not have enough information on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u130	I had two questions that have not yet been answered, first of all the question about the fact story of May last year about CoronIT. It stated that "the requirements for the safe use of data by citizens are met'. My question was: what was that statement based on when you saw that it wasn't safe at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u131	Then you refer to a verdict in a letter from me to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u132	Yes, the fact story indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u133	There's no other way than that I based it on information I must have received from the G.D.D.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u134	Then it just didn't turn out to be right after all. And I asked another question: people go to the GGD with, for example, an STD test. Does this mean that the regular GD data are also so poorly protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u135	Let's separate ourselves from the qualification that I'm leaving on your behalf. I want to be careful about this, because there are a lot of people watching and I also ask people to get tested again tomorrow. So I think we should also be more precise in our qualifications. You have just heard me read out a list of measures and I do not think you can make that qualification applicable. Soas are not registered in CoronIT and I can assume that the attention needed for information security on this side is also of course needed for information security in other systems. How exactly that is registered, I am not ready. If that's what you're interested in, I can have it sent to you. I can certainly do that, but I'm not ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u136	Yeah, I'm interested in that. I would like citizens' data to be safely monitored, so thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u137	The point that the SP just made is really very relevant, even in the short term. In the coming weeks, when we are looking at whether or not we are going to a new system, there are indeed, as the SP rightly said, perhaps dozens of organisations that are external and therefore have much less of that GGD experience and perhaps also engagement and passion. Organisations that have come out of their bed in a fairly fast way, lightly worked in, so to speak, and sit in the call center. We're talking compartmentalisation and authorization. Those are very good terms, but I would like to know how this will be closed down in the next few weeks. Otherwise, I will get more e-mails from people who have access via a second line and say "I can still hide large amounts of data" or come up with other examples. Or they get access to parts that they don't actually have to have access to for the performance of their tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u138	Exactly. A fairly long list of adjustments will be made to access and to the number of people who have access. The authorisation for the search function is severely restricted. It's a pretty long list of all kinds of technical adaptations. It's gonna be put into effect on February 4th. With this it is simply no longer possible to use the search function. The export function was already gone anyway. The print function is also gone. Well, at least I'm assuming it's gone, but we'll check with the two G.D.D.s. Maybe that feature is still available for a very small group. That could be the fault, but I'll check it out. Anything that can happen in the short term in the field of authorization and compartmentalisation will be completed tomorrow. We must make use of large call centres, which can provide large numbers of people, because the operation must continue. The vaccination involves thousands of people who need to be able to make appointments. That's what tests are all about, actually. So it's about really big call centers being used. They should then be able to access very little data. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u139	So the Minister has promised that this will all be in order tomorrow and that there will only be tight subjects that people can access, even if, in a manner of speaking, they have only just begun a day at a call centre or as a volunteer of a particular organisation. That's very reassuring to hear. Another question is about that forensic investigation. To what extent is it still possible to map a data breach that started to get a certain form months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u140	Depends on the log. You're hoping that's done well enough. We just need to see that. Let us leave that to the people who specialise in it. We have to hope this can be done. Of course, you want to be able to grab people who have not done their job there with good intentions. We are doing this not only on the basis of periodic checks, which will soon be carried out fully automatically, but now at least on a daily and high level, but also on the basis of forensic research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr Veldman and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u142	I would like to continue with the possible more large-scale and more extensive rapid tests later, for example at events where it should be excluded that someone is infected when they enter. The Minister and I discussed this earlier, I believe, during one of the Corona debates in December. At that time, I do not think the Minister was ready to distinguish between testing for detection and testing for exclusion. Now I taste a bit in the switch with Mrs. Agema that he can imagine that in some tests you minimize the information storage, where you register things in a different way than that you have a full picture of who, what, where and when. I want to see if I can go a step further with the Minister in that recording of information. Suppose we end up at a stage where you have well validated home tests, then I don't think there is any registration at all. I'll be home and test myself in the morning: can I or can't I go out? If a positive result comes out, it might be wise to go along the GGD-teststraat to know for sure. But if I have a negative rash, I can just go out. Then it's not like I'm gonna call the GGD or anyone else: I took a test on myself, would you register? Can the Minister imagine that if we gradually go down this road of testing the larger scale at home, there are situations where you really don't need registration at all, precisely because you're doing nothing more than excluding an infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u143	You'll always need at least a record of the positive results. This simply applies in the context of the fight against infectious diseases. I also do not share the observation with Mr Veldman that I would have ever intended anything else with the testing in track 1, infection control, and in track 2 to make safe working, safe studying and access possible, so for reopening society. You remember those statements. Those are two different aims of the test policy. Basically, testing can always be understood as a medical act, but as I have just said to Mrs Agema, I think that the use of bsn and other personal data should also be minimized in that medical act. Once again, access tests explicitly state that, although testing itself is a medical procedure, it shows your negative test results that are at least not. From the moment you download your negative test result there, for example, via DigiD, on your phone, all you have to do is show your negative result, without attaching personal data to it. They won't be checked. That negative result is also not recorded on access. There is therefore zero registration of personal data. I think that's important in making access tests possible. As soon as I submitted legislation to the Chamber to allow access tests, which would include a solid processing of personal data, your Chamber would say: 'Don't do that; don't do that.' I would agree with your Chamber, by the way. In the technique of how it is now being prepared, both in terms of legislation and in terms of application development, it is designed in such a way that no personal data will be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u144	This question has been answered in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u145	I know. It's being retabled, so I thought I'd answer it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u146	The answer was really extensive, also in response to Mrs Agema's question. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u147	The addition made by the Minister, indeed, Mr President. My question remains in the sense that, if this is the line the Minister follows, he is actually saying that home testing, if there are later, has no added value. After all, they do not lead to a negative test result that you can use anywhere. That test only says something for your own feelings, like you have a thermometer at home. From: gosh, am I or am I not infected? But that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u148	That's not small. That added value is indeed there. You can come up with all kinds of applications of home testing. The group of Jan Kluytmans, among others, is involved in all kinds of pilots, among care staff for example. That could be very interesting. But just for employees indeed as a kind of thermometer: can I go to work today? That's one of the pilots running right now, but there's more of them running. Two, for children in class it could also be an interesting application. That is one of the pilots that run under the direction of Patricia Bruijning, where guided self-deduction could be among other things the future perspective. In addition, you could even imagine that you have a self-test in society in the morning next to brushing your teeth. It's all possible. We just haven't thought about how to prevent it from being tampered with as an access test. You shouldn't want that, I think, because it's impossible to fight fraud. That's impossible. And two, how do you ensure that a positive test result is indeed reported to the GDD. That's what we have to do. It's a reported disease, an A disease in the Wpg. If you didn't do that, you wouldn't act according to the Wpg. These are questions that we have not yet thought about. This is without prejudice to the fact that all kinds of pilots and validations are now taking place, but we have not yet been prepared on these policy questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u149	You have promised that you will come back to that in detail. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u150	Every two weeks I send a letter from a side or a hundred in which there are things like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u151	Yeah, especially at this point. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u153	I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to take with him in the course of these pilots what we are and what we are not registering now, with the emphasis on not registering anything either. Maybe you shouldn't register anything either, because you need to take a good look at what consequences and what effect that has. But that's nothing other than if someone at home has taken the thermometer and has a fever; so he may have been infected with the corona virus, but has no further complaints and is just going to do his thing outside. We don't want that, because we call people: do you have complaints, stay home. But you can't guarantee that either. There are no 100% guarantees. That's why, in my opinion, if you choose to use tests to re-open society, you have to deal with registration in other ways. I'd like to give that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u154	Yes, thank you for bringing it along, but that is without prejudice to the dilemmas I have just outlined. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u155	I would like to take a few steps back to a question that Mrs Agema asked about the NEN standards that would be there. We have also dealt with this in our written questions, and the answer caused us nothing but confusion. As we have just been promised that we will return to this subject, I would like to ask my questions. Indeed, it is indicated that work is carried out according to the certification according to the NEN 7510 standard. Our question is: when will the 7510 standard be revised and reviewed? It is only indicated that the NEN 7512 standard is being revised. Then, of course, the question remains: when was the last time the 7510 standard was revised? Are we going to review it? How does that stand, especially given that the Animal Party has adopted a motion years ago that this standard would be revised? I wonder what the situation is with that, because that is a worrying situation. Then we wonder whether this situation is only about NEN 7510 and whether it is not also about the NEN 7512 standard. It sounds like a lot, but it's two questions that may not be answered right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u156	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u157	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u158	These are mainly two very difficult questions. Before we start talking to each other in codes, do you mind if I return to this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u159	I find that difficult, because we have already deliberately put these questions in writing. The answer to that has only become more unclear. Otherwise, I would like to table a motion on this subject myself in my second term. So I find it difficult to go through this again in writing. Talking about NEN standards sounds very intense, but it's about privacy standards. It is therefore a very logical part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u160	Exactly. It's about the care. Here's what I'm gonna do. I think that's the most practical thing. I'm just not equipped to speak with you in NEN standards. I'm a simple person. But what I can do is say to our people: the questions have not been answered properly and I would like to answer them properly. Then I can make sure that I return with a better written reply in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u161	Okay, that's gonna have to do, I guess, for now. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u162	It is always good to read all Mrs Van Esch's written questions in advance...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u163	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u164	... because I know: whenever questions are asked, they have asked not only Mrs Van Esch, but also Mrs Ouwehand......................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u165	Then my answer is not sufficient and then you address me to it. Yeah, I know the drill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u166	Then you're prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u167	One short question to the Minister on this point. Thank you for the commitment to include culture in the audit. The Minister also states that expertise has been requested from VWS and that a separate expert team is coming from outside. But now it was said at the beginning that the organisation in particular does not yet meet the NEN standard. I was wondering if there's a timetable for that. The fact that all these external aid units are coming now is fine, but when is the organization in the GGD itself, so that they can manage that themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u168	I'm going to promise to come back to the phenomenon of NEN standard and the extent to which the GGD meets it. Then I will answer Mrs Agema's question, Mrs Van den Berg's question and Mrs Van Esch's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Azarkan. Or are you just standing there? It's kind of a hangout over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u170	It seems that way sometimes, Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the legal reporting of the data breach and its extent. At what point did the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u171	It's not up to the Minister to do that. It's up to the G.D.D. to do that. The GGD did so without delay after the notification was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u172	When was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u173	Not last Friday, but the Friday before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u174	Is it also known what the size is, approximate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mr Dekker is about to say something about that. That also affects the questions raised in the criminal investigation. But it's very difficult to tell what the size is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u176	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u177	Then I come to the questions that relate to the people who may have been victims and what can be done about them. Mr Dekker will also answer part of that, so I myself will answer half of the questions that have been asked. The VVD has asked how long it takes for people to know if their data has been stolen. The GGD has informed me that, when it is known which persons might have stolen information, the GGD will inform them. The GGD has also opened a phone number, because it is important that people can go somewhere with the questions they have at that point. But once again: what is the extent of a possible......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We know the description of this as well as the RTL, but we do not yet know the outcome of the criminal investigation. Is there any way in the systems to figure out how big the leak is? The GGD has indicated to me that the data of the systems are secure. The GGD has also indicated to me that the forensic investigation has already started. It can show who has committed unauthorized acts. We can't anticipate that investigation. The police are also investigating the provision of personal data. Mr Van der Staaij asked if the Minister could give more sense of association. Well, I understand I'm answering those questions anyway. So that's very difficult. Those data have been secured, but we do not yet know whether the data has actually been traded and to what extent access to personal data has been unlawfully obtained. And so we do not know the answer to the question of the Christian Union to what extent the data were used. I just can't answer those questions right now. How, then, can people trust that their data is safe, asked Mrs Kikk, Mrs Kröger and Mr Hijink. People need to be able to assume that their data is safe at the GD. That is why this is a serious matter. I have just indicated what we are doing to ensure that we close all the gaps in the shortest possible time, and what we are all doing to further compartmentalise, and to give fewer people access to even less information. I've told you about systems that will eventually be replaced. All these things we do is to make sure that people can trust that their data is safe. In doing so, I do have to take into account the continuity of the operation and its functionality. I will. But I would like to agree with Mrs Kröger that this is not a contradiction and we must ensure that it is not a contradiction in the end. And so I'll let the Chamber know how we could do that. In fact, all the groups have asked what is being done to help victims. GGD GHOR has been actively communicating on the backgrounds of the data diary since 29 January, and the measures that have been taken and will be taken. In the meantime, a telephone number has been opened where people can ask questions seven days a week from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. The GGD has also informed me that people will be informed as soon as it is clear to the GGD what information might have been stolen and who it concerns. That is, of course, also a legal obligation, on the basis of the GDPR. They also asked: could you compensate? I thought 50PLUS asked, but also the VVD, the SGP, the CDA and the PVV. Who compensates for the damage and provides legal assistance? The GGD is, of course, a move, because it is simply required by law to inform. However, if there is any damage that would result from the data breach, the GGD is also liable for it at that time. And if the GGD needs support from VWS, of course I'll give it. So in a formal sense it is the GDD, but if there were any need for support, we will of course do so. Can the Minister guarantee that employees can report abuses internally or externally without further ado? The risk analysis and the conversations have made it clear that it was not common ground to report incidents among themselves to partners in the testing and tracing chain. That is why, at the end of December, the agreement was made that a chain-wide incident reporting process has entered into force immediately. That's also been affected. Data leaks that pose risks to affected persons must of course be reported by the responsible organisation to the Personal Data Authority. Mrs Van den Berg also paid attention to the cultural aspect. That aspect will be taken into account in the audit. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions that affect people who may have been victims. Before I can give the floor to Mr Dekker, I have to deal with a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u178	First, I give Mrs Kuik the floor, and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u179	I make the general remark that I continue to find it strange that not all people who have been tested have simply had a safety warning. I think that would have been nice, but it wasn't chosen. However, my question is about something else. We still hear that people are asking for data to be deleted or anonymized, but that is not really possible, when it is said that this can be done. Is the Minister aware of this and, if so, what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u180	On the second point: I am not aware that this would be difficult. I need to check that signal. I will come back to that, because that should be possible. With regard to the wide-ranging information: because of course there are a lot of people who have been tested, they have chosen to inform the entire public and the public and on the website in full and to immediately inform these people as soon as it is known what group of people might be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u181	I know what they have chosen, but I do not think that is the exact effect we have laid down. The choice has now been made, but I believe that anyone who was potentially at risk should have been informed that there has been a potential leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u182	But we have that discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u183	I therefore disagree with the interpretation of the law on this point. Let's stop this discussion now, but I think it should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u184	One more sentence about that. We had that discussion earlier at the Donor Registry, where the suggestion was made to inform everyone who might have to do with it. But that could lead to a data leak again. If you're going to write millions of people, some of which may not be living at that address anymore, then maybe you're going to create data insecurity again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u185	It is still difficult that two weeks after that we still do not have a clear view of how big the problem really is. I've just heard the Minister speak again about possible theft. I think Rouvoet has already acknowledged theft. I think we know it's pretty big, too. So I think it is important that we do not pretend that it might be a little bit easy or that there might not be anything going on at all. There's a reason people have been arrested. Three people have been arrested. There might be more of them. What can the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u186	Not so much. But you're absolutely right. You can assume that there is indeed theft, because otherwise this message would not have come to us in this way. That's one. Two is that we do not yet know whether there has actually been a trade. But that could have happened. You're right to assume that if people have been arrested, it hasn't been for nothing. But we have to wait and see what the police themselves conclude on this at some point. I cannot anticipate the outcome of criminal investigations here. Mr Dekker is very keen on that, but I predict that this will be very limited. I'm not trying to make it look like it could all be okay. I do not think it is easy, because I think you have just heard me say that the mere fact that it was possible that the systems did not prevent this, even though they could have provided a higher level of security, is sufficient reason to have this debate together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u187	I ask the question because we get a lot of e-mails from people who are worried. I think other groups are getting those e-mails, too. People are wondering whether their data is now on the streets or in the hands of criminals. I can very well imagine those concerns. In my view, it is important that this does not take too long, because the longer it takes, the greater the risk is that data that were stolen weeks ago, perhaps last year, is still circulating underground. We may not now be able to see that they are being dealt in at the moment or that they are being traded, but who knows if the data that were stolen last year will be sold illegally again. If we wait just as long to know exactly whether illegal data is currently being dealt with, people will be in uncertainty for a very long time to come. I find that difficult, because these people just want to know whether they should be concerned now and whether they should be watching extra closely if they are being swindled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u188	But for that the information number has been opened anyway. It can be reached seven days a week, from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. For that, a website with all kinds of questions and answers went into the air. That is what we are acting on in this capacity, as far as we can now. To determine the size, to actually say to people "maybe your address was there," you really need to know more than we know now. For this purpose, criminal investigations, as well as additional forensic investigations, take place within the GGD itself. When information gets out that's divisible, it's shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u189	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u190	And when is that expected? I don't know. There's really nothing to say right now. That just depends. That has to do with the criminal side of this. But let me promise you this. It's done carefully, of course. Not a day longer than is strictly necessary. As soon as I know more about that, I'll make sure you know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u191	Fine. Mrs. Kröger. We really need to put down arrows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u192	The Minister has just promised Mrs Van den Berg to include culture within the GGDs in the audit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u193	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u194	I'm actually very curious. I hope that the Minister actually wants to take the system or organization side with him: how we dealt with the GGDs, 25 entities with a umbrella organisation above them and a minister who can manage this directly in part and how that actually contributes to the fact that we do not have very strict lines in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u195	We should not have too wide a system discussion about the GGD. It is not wise to evaluate the military system in the middle of the war. We shouldn't do that. That is a question we will certainly be discussing at some point, but after the crisis and not during the crisis. With the IT questions, we can't wait until after the crisis. Where the IT is concerned, it is about whether the organisation and the management of the organisation have been adequately absorbed in order to be able to expect that this type of leaks will not occur anymore and that signals about information security always arrive in the right way. That must certainly be taken with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u196	Good. I'm glad. I would also like to include the relationship with a umbrella organisation. If a problem is identified with one GGD, will it be pursued in policy through a single umbrella to all these GGDs? Because there seems to be a need to suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u197	Yeah, part of it. Yes. Okay, sure. I'm assuming that's part of it, and otherwise on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u198	The questions that have been answered through interruptions do not need to be dealt with anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u199	I know. I still have a few questions to ask that fall into the block of varia; during this debate, too, we simply need to keep some traditions in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u200	Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mr Verhoeven of D66's question was whether it is not a good idea that every organization has a chief privacy officer. The answer is yes, that's a good idea. But there is no state-wide obligation or a state-wide policy regarding having a chief privacy officer. Every organisation that processes personal data needs someone to give it privacy advice. That could be a privacy officer. A chief privacy officer is only mentioned when there are sub-organisations that have their own privacy officer. For example, the various parts of my ministry have a privacy officer and so our ministry also has one chief privacy officer. I think that's how most departments handled this. In short, yes, it is a good idea, especially for large organisations, but it is not currently a legal obligation. I went into the letter from the RIVM. I think I have answered the questions in sufficient detail. Then there's the vaccination data. Is there sufficient security for what is registered there and also for who can enter it? That's the same system, CoronIT, albeit that's compartmentalized, but at an aggregation level that I really think can be even tighter. So that's what's being done now. We've also asked the GGD if it's really necessary to be able to look over and over again. That's only partly true, of course. For example, the GGD says: if you make a vaccination appointment, we would like you to be able to see the test results. Then why, we say. Well, if you've recently tested positive, that could be a contra-indication to be vaccinated at that time. But my question would then be: can't you just ask people? Do you necessarily need access to the system for that? In this way, I think we need to take a critical look at whether it is really necessary for you to be able to see some of the information over and over again. So that's what we're going to do with the GGD and that's what I'm going to come back to. In any case, everything that is now being built into additional safety measures for the test side should, of course, also include the vaccination side. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions. Then I would like to ask whether it is right for Mr Dekker to continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'm looking at Mrs. Van den Berg. Has there been a question left, Mrs Van den Berg?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u203	Maybe it's Minister Dekker or the Minister will come back to it in writing, but I also had a question about the bsn number. We get a lot of e-mails from people who say: yes, can I still use my bsn-number?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr Dekker will come back to that. I have made a registration, for myself, of course, which I have to return to in writing and which I have to return to in the second term. So I'll do that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u205	Mrs. Van Esch, don't ask any difficult questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u206	Oh, oh. I totally assumed that the corona-opt questions I asked would belong to the block of varia, but they didn't come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u207	I would like to return to that in writing. I am therefore going to do so in writing. In the previous debate, at Question Time, I already promised it. At that time too, the President stressed that I should do so. So I'm going to come back to that in writing, but of course I have the answer ready. The corona-opt-in is about making specific medical data available for emergency care in the patient file at the GP. That is what I said in Question Time. This concerns the general practitioner, not this one. It is about the so-called professional summary. Only authorised healthcare professionals at the GPs and the E.R. have access to this data. The corona-opt-in does not allow access to this data for pharmacists, for example. The corona-opt-in is useful when a patient comes to the emergency room directly and not through the GP. My colleague for Medical Care and Sport is going to temporarily anchor the corona-opt-in by AMvB, which is now before the AP for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u208	And yet we continue to see privacy dangers in this too. We didn't have a corona-opt-in. It has been indicated that it would be necessary temporarily in the fight against the corona crisis. We have repeatedly indicated that it remains worrying to allow that corona-opt-in to continue. Looks like it's gonna take longer now. Is it really necessary to continue the corona-opt-in this way? Are the same privacy checks applied that we consider necessary for all these other systems? I notice that I find it a bit scary here too, because it is being made as if it is all right, despite the fact that we have opened medical records of 8 million people. I think that is a critical point. Are we quite sure that we have used all the privacy safeguards that are needed to prevent another leak from happening here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u209	It is not for nothing that the AMvB that has to arrange this is in front of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which will do that test, precisely with the question that Mrs Van Esch is asking here. But what is at issue here is not opening up the medical record of millions of people to anyone who would like to look into it. It's about the ER. Let's say you don't go to the emergency room through the GP, but you go straight to the emergency room. Does the ER doctor have access through the professional summary to include a number of contraindications, for example allergies, in his assessment? These things you need to know to put in a quick treatment without accidents. If there's an urgent need, you don't want to go through an endless paperwork before you can provide that kind of care that's needed. That's what the corona-opt-in is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u210	Very briefly. I get it. I believe that the PvdD has also indicated that if it is necessary, in the midst of the fight against a pandemic, we are not going to lie down for that. However, we have a system in the Netherlands that allows people to do so for a reason. That system is designed to protect people's privacy. In fact, we should always act from that point of view. People consent to sharing their medical records. I would not like to go to a situation where we say that these data are always open between those medical professions from now on. I want to go back to the system where people give permission to share that medical information. I want a timeline for that. I don't want to just give carte blanche here so I can go on with it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u211	But that is the debate you will have to have with Mr Van Ark on the occasion of the AMvB. The AMvB is now before the Dutch Data Protection Authority for its opinion and the debate will follow afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u212	Okay, then it'll come to the room. At least that's what I'm assuming. Then I'll suspend until the Minister has packed his things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u213	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u214	Mr. Chairman. Last week we were still thinking about the European Day of Privacy and at the same time the GGD was hit by serious data digs. The latter is serious. I understand the concerns all too well. It is very important that citizens can have confidence in the fact that their data is properly protected, especially where that has to be done by the government. Whether it's the government, a municipality or an execution organization, I think the government should set a good example. It is precisely in order to combat effectively the pandemic we are currently in that we need people to be able to rely on it. I would like to say a few words about the legal framework and supervision carried out by the Personal Data Authority and about the questions specifically asked about the case, also in relation to the scope of the service. Next, I will deal with everything related to criminal law and victims. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first one. Mr Verhoeven said that the government itself is collecting more and more data and data. He asks whether enough is being done to do so in a responsible and safe way. Is it even necessary to collect so much data? I think we should also see that last question in the context in which we are now. If we're very real, we can't live without data. We would also have a debate here in this Chamber if the government did not use advanced ICT systems in this complicated crisis. But then it must be done in a careful way. There is a great deal going on in this area and there is much to improve. I'm just pointing out a few things. Think, for example, of everything that is happening in the field of policy and implementation, the protocols that are being drawn up for that purpose. There is currently a state-wide privacy audit conducted by our colleague Knops van BZK. We expect it to be ready by mid 2021. Very recently, a chief information security officer has been appointed within the Empire to lead this. So there is a lot of things happening in different places within the government to do safe information processing. That is what we are investing in in concrete terms. I will say something about the investments in the AP later. In many areas we invest in information security. The various administrations do this separately, but also take the additional investments this cabinet has made in the field of cybersecurity, for example. They are all intended for secure ICT systems and the protection of our data. The third leg we are doing is the most relevant to this debate, namely legislation. In this cabinet period, under my responsibility, perhaps the most important law, the GDPR, and its incorporation into the GDPR Implementing Act, which provides the legal framework for the subject we are discussing today, has entered into force. I am pleased to hear that some of the leading principles of the GDPR are also considered important by your Chamber, for example the principle of privacy by design. The question was whether we should not do that now. The answer to that is yes. In fact, it is a legal obligation, even laid down in the GDPR. Wouldn't it be a good thing, I think, that Mr Verhoeven said that every organisation makes someone responsible for the data being processed within an organisation's systems? The answer to that is yes. In fact, that's a legal obligation. Each government organisation must appoint a data-processing officer. This should then also be reported to the Personal Data Authority, so that there is also a natural bridge between implementing bodies and the supervisory body, the AP. With that I immediately made a nice bridge to the AP. With the introduction of the GDPR, it has been given a much more prominent and stronger role in monitoring. How does the AP do this? That supervision is risk-driven. In other words, complaints coming in and data leaks being reported are being looked at. The GDPR strongly relies on ensuring that organisations themselves have the place in order in the base. I think this is also good, because when you see how many companies and government organisations there are in the Netherlands, you cannot put someone on top of it every time. That's why it has to be good in the base. The supervision of the AP is therefore risk-driven. It also focuses on compliance and recovery. In other words, the AP has many enforcement tools, but ultimately it is most important that where the GDPR is not properly respected this happens as soon as possible. The AP also uses forms of escalation in supervision. In other words, you do not immediately grab the hardest resources, but you first enter the conversation and point the organisations to the vulnerabilities and then try to scale it up. When I look at how that went in the case of the GGD, I actually see three steps. On September 16th, the security of the GGD's systems came into the news for the first time. The broadcast of Nieuwsuur led the AP to contact the GGD directly and ask for clarification about what was done to make up for the systems in the base. At the request of the AP, the GGD subsequently provided all relevant documents, such as impact analyses and risk analyses, to the AP. At that time, the AP explicitly pointed out the importance of the protection and security of personal data, and the importance of direct action where risks arise. Subsequently, in November, the GGD reported a data breach involving two persons. As a result, there has been once again contact between the AP and the GGD. The GGD subsequently announced concrete measures to address the data breach and prevent further data leaks. The main measures put forward were the introduction of authorisation measures, the screening of personnel, the training of employees, the login in the system and the verification of login. In doing so, the GGD committed to the AP that these measures would be implemented by the end of 2020 at the beginning of 2021. The third is that, before that commitment was made, the latest incident took place in January, made known by RTL News. On this basis, and on the basis of the notification obligation it has according to the GDPR, the GDPR notified the AP on 21 January. Follow-up reports were made in the following days. This is common in these situations: a first report is made and then it is further refined and elaborated. Following this notification, the AP immediately strengthened the supervision of the GD, also because the gravity of the case became clearer. Inspectors of the AP closely monitor developments at the GGD and also have frequent contact. They will check whether necessary improvements in security are being made, whether the promised measures have actually been implemented and whether the implementation is in line with the plans. The AP therefore explicitly monitors the promised improvement actions of the GGD. In addition, checks are also carried out by the AP to determine whether the personal data is properly secured. The AP asks the GGD to report periodically on this and to make a periodic evaluation of it. In short, I am doing it extensively to show that the AP takes the notifications seriously in my eyes and is also on top of them. You can see that there has been an escalation since September and that supervision has also been stepped up gradually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u215	Yeah, rounding it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u216	Maybe I can finish this block? Mrs Van den Berg asked if the AP should stop looking at the front and should consider how to solve this in a good way. I myself am very reluctant to do so because the AP has a strong supervisory function and role. You may not be able to perform that supervisory function as well if you are jointly responsible for the design and setting up of the systems at the front. By way of exception, it may happen sometime. I see that the corona app in the front of the building is a little more thought-provoking. But I insist that the GDPR is based on ex post supervision. Many services and government organisations can be assisted by all kinds of agencies in the good design of a reliable security architecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u217	Did you have all the questions about the capacity and the AP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u218	No, not yet, because this is about the AP case. Broader is: how does this relate to the discussion about capacity? More generally, I know the discussion and I also know the opinion of the AP on it. You also had a briefing earlier this week on a report published at the end of last year. I would like to point out that the report deals with a number of scenarios, a number of models, but I would like to quote from the report that the study makes it clear that there are still too many uncertainties to arrive at a clear, multiannual, forward-looking capacity estimate. This is inherent in the dynamics in which the AP operates and the data position available. This is also the result of the policy space that there is, among other things, in legislation to make certain choices in it. In other words, it is not a given that the scenarios presented in the report are also strictly necessary to properly execute the AP. This is quite apart from the fact that, of course, we have invested heavily in the AP in recent years. The AP's budget has tripled over the last five years. Not 10% or 20%, but 300% on it. This makes the AP one of the best human and one of the best funded authorities in Europe. I would like to challenge Mr Verhoeven to interrupt. The report shows that there has been a significant investment in the AP. Also in the current year I added extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u219	Have you answered all the questions on this point? Then I have Mr Azarkan, Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u220	I'll start with the latter. We know Mr Dekker's views.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u221	From the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u222	From the Minister, Mr Dekker, on, among other things, access to justice. Then he comes up with statistics and says that nowhere in the world is it as well arranged as in the Netherlands. We're part of the top. Yet we see that tens of thousands of citizens were destroyed by that government because they had no access to that right, because they simply couldn't get anywhere. I find it really typical again, Minister Sander Dekker, who says: we have invested very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u223	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u224	Well, on the other hand, what is the reality of the Personal Data Authority that indicates that it can only receive a few tenths of a percentage of the notifications? Which indicates she's as big a case as the premium affair...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u225	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u226	It took them a year and two months. How can the Minister say they're well-equipped? What does that tell you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u227	I was just reporting on the growth that the AP has been going through. The budget has tripled in five years. I don't think there's a government organization in the Netherlands that can say that. I am not saying that the problems are completely out of the question. I also see that the workload at the AP is quite high. But it's not like we haven't done anything lately. And yes, there are a lot of reports coming in to the Personal Data Authority, but that's not that crazy either, because there's an obligation in the GDPR that you report it when there's a data breach. And not every data breach immediately requires a very large and deep investigation. Then you have to look at how many signals you're getting and what the severity of the signals is. That's what you see in this case. It starts small and then an initial action is taken by the AP. The more serious it becomes, the monitoring will be stepped up. I discussed this in detail with the AP yesterday. They also really believe that they have acted according to their own way of working and according to what the law requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u228	I really wonder if the Minister has any idea how fast it is to collect data and how much data is added every day. He says that in the last five years the budget has tripled, and that there is no government organization that can say that, but that comparison strikes like a tong on a pig. The conclusion, also from the General Court, of the AP and other institutions, is that the government has no control over its own dates. On the one hand, we see algorithms being used in places where they can't be used. The AP has found that the government is breaking the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u229	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u230	My question is: how can the Minister insist that there is no need and that we should not? There is simply a need to invest more in how to deal with all the data collected by the government, which no one is monitoring and which citizens can be victims of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u231	I'm not trying to make the contradiction unnecessary. I just mentioned in my introduction that we invest extra in information security, in the Personal Data Authority, in cybersecurity and in a lot of other things. We're gonna have to keep doing that. Mr Azarkan is quite right that the processing of data and data is probably not going to be any less. It's just gonna be more. But in the discussion about whether the AP is sufficiently equipped, my point is that although I see that there is pressure on that organisation, I also note that there has actually been extra money every year. We also invest in the AP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u232	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u233	Then there's the question I really wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u234	Isn't that the other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u235	Well, this one is about what the minister said in a sub-section about the serious deficiencies identified by the AP at the GGD in respect of these two systems. It was agreed that they would be closed by the end of 2020 or early 2021. I find that rather nonchalant or unbelievable. In my view, the AP found that there were serious deficiencies and said that they should be eliminated by the end of 2020. Is the minister saying they had a couple of months? He just said, "first half of 2021." Was it, "Would you take a look when you fix it"? How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u236	No. Following the data breach in November, the AP contacted the GGD. It indicated that there would be improvement measures that would come to a conclusion by the end of 2020 or early 2021. Then we were overtaken by what happened in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u237	The Minister has just explained that watching the development does not really fit in with a supervisor. I can understand that. But I had also asked: shouldn't the AP have applied enhanced surveillance earlier, precisely because she knew that this is potentially about millions of data? 'Cause that only happened recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u238	Yeah, you shouldn't look with the knowledge of today. You have to look at what we knew in September and what the AP did then, and what we knew in November and what the AP did then. If you go through that period of time, I find it very logical that the AP should contact us on the occasion of a broadcast of Nieuwsuur, in which anonymously it is said by employees on the picture that they are not sufficiently trained. That was a first signal from which contact was made. I like that. Then you can say: shouldn't they have started an in-depth investigation right away? No, that's not in the way they supervise. There is a certain layering in it; you do not immediately reach for your heaviest agent. This doesn't matter from the fact that, when you do an investigation, it often gets over for months before it gets anywhere. So I don't think it's weird that it was said in September "what about your base, is it in order?', and then in November, following a number of reports, what is going on. Then agreements are made on improvements. But now there is actually another step, namely that it is said: yes, this is very serious; we are going to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u239	But then I conclude that the Minister is actually saying that the AP does not take into account the potential size. Because, of course, we are talking about a data file with millions of data, and then there's not in the back of the AP that, if something goes wrong there, it's going to go far more massively than when, so to speak, you're somewhere with ten data leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u240	But I'm sure they'll take that into account. For example, this is one of the reasons why they contacted us immediately in September, and why they did so again as a result of the notification of the data breach in November. You can imagine that there are data leaks in many types and sizes. The AP receives several notifications every day. Many of these notifications are not automatically answered either; there is already a data breach if you accidentally send some out in your e-mail. That's what you need to report. Those kinds of reports also come in, and they don't all automatically lead to a contact. And this is what the AP has done here, in these cases, precisely because of its seriousness and size.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u241	Now Mr Verhoeven, Mr Hijink and Mrs Kuik. The questions must be really short, because we also have a second deadline. Yeah? Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u242	The Minister says, and I have talked with him about it for years, with a steel face again: the AP is lagging behind. The AP oversees the GDPR, they have to correct all kinds of law violations of the government, like today with the GGD data breach again. There they did not adhere to the GDPR; a data breach. There they are completely inadequate, as has just been explained by the SP. On all sides, the water runs over the shoes. There have been several reports in the past year, all indicating that there are significant deficits. It's been a year with SyRI, it's been a year with the supplemental affair, with a data breach. We just passed another law that the AP said "don't do": the Wgs, again from this ministry. On all sides, that data train is going on and on. It is worrying that it happens, because data is being worked with by the government and that is fine, but not in a good way. What do we need? A strong supervisor, who can really intervene. Do we have it? No. Should it be every day with a drop on a glowing plate, should it be with the salami tactics? No, and the Minister knows that secretly. Why not, if there are motions from the Chamber, once at the end of such a cabinet period say: we'll add some money for that Personal Data Authority? Those people are working very hard to correct all kinds of dataism on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u243	I think that Mr Verhoeven is really failing the AP here. Because the AP is incredibly trying to process a lot, to give good advice on legislation. She is also very strict on the things we should or should not do. There are over 180 people working incredibly hard at the AP, and in my view they are doing just very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u244	Mr President, this is a little ball-playing with my question. I'm saying there's a big problem with capacity. And the Minister makes that a kind of game, that I say the quality is not good. They cannot deliver the quality that is needed, because of the lack of capacity. Scenarios from all investigations, also in the latest KPMG report, just shared with the Chamber two days ago, show that capacity is the problem. D66 or I will never say that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is not doing its job properly. This is just very lame of the Minister. I don't understand why that answer is needed now, after everything that's happened over the past year. It's about capacity! Can't the Minister just say: capacity is inadequate, water runs over the shoes on all sides. Supervisors like the ACM are many times larger, with huge budgets, and the Personal Data Authority remains a relatively small club. And then the Minister says: yes, Mr Verhoeven is failing the AP. No, the minister is failing the AP; literally, with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u245	Mr Verhoeven and I simply disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u246	I've noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u247	He's drawing a conclusion from a report I'm not drawing immediately. I said something about the scenarios that are in it, but also the great disclaimer that the researchers put in there, that the figures are not really good enough and hard enough to make reliable statements about it. I have just indicated that I am sending year in, year out of extra money towards the AP to ensure that she can do her duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u248	I don't think you'll agree, but the Chamber is free to discuss it in a different way. I'm going to see Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u249	I've got to get something straight. I said earlier that the Personal Data Authority has one person available one day a week to actively search for data leaks. That is not true, because this person also has a lot of other things to do. It should not only actively look for data leaks, but looks at all kinds of signals, from tips to data leaks to complaints, etc. Tracking data leaks is just part of one of the many things that one person has to do on that one day in the week. One person, one day a week. If you look at how much data we have, what the government is pouring out across the country, does the minister think it's enough that one person, one day a week, can detect data leaks? Does he really think that's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u250	There should be no caricature of the AP. More than 180 people work at the Dutch Data Protection Authority. There is a multitude of people working in the research and enforcement departments. Mr Hijink says that there is so little capacity to proactively or preventively look for data leaks. But quite honestly, that is not the job of the Personal Data Authority either. The Personal Data Authority should act where data leaks occur. Everyone, every organization, private or public, has a duty to report data leaks. In fact, if that doesn't happen, the AP can also intervene heavily. For example, look at two years ago, when Uber was dealing with a big data breach and reported it too late. He got a hell of a fine. And that's the way supervision works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u251	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u252	Mr President, I really object to the way the Minister is talking here. He was just pretending to Mr Verhoeven that we were failing the Personal Data Authority. The Minister does. And now I would sketch a caricature of how the AP functions. The minister makes it a caricature. What good is a supervisor who does not supervise, intervenes, acts only after it has gone wrong? It seems to me that a good supervisor is actively looking for leaks, so that we can intervene before people are affected. For that we still have a supervisor, I'd say. So what's the problem? The request of the AP is that we increase that 0.2 fte, so the one day in the week that someone is working on it, to a number of people who can just do it full-time. Then we can avoid this kind of trouble. Then we don't have to stand here and have this debate about a big data leak at the GD. Then perhaps in September we would have had a supervisor who had said: this is where things are going very wrong; we are going to intervene in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u253	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u254	I'm just looking at what the law asks and what the law says. Then the Dutch Data Protection Authority is a risk-driven supervisor. This means that there can be a response when signals come in. That's different than looking proactively or preventively. I also think it's an illusion to think that with so many thousands of companies and government organisations in the Netherlands you'll be able to do this in a good way, unless you might increase the AP ten or a hundred times. That's the philosophy of the GDPR. A great deal of responsibility is placed on the organisations themselves, with a great deal of commitment. And if it goes wrong, we have a supervisor who can act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u255	You may ask one more question, but I do not have the impression that that question will lead to a completely different conclusion on the AP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u256	That might be possible, Mr President, but I would like to make the comparison with the IGJ, the Health and Youth Inspectorate. It also often carries out risk-based monitoring, but that does not mean that it relies solely on notifications. It is, of course, a very strange form of monitoring if you only rely on reports. A good supervisor does not rely on reports, but sees for himself where problems are. So if you only rely on notifications, you don't have a good idea of where the risks are, because then you always depend on someone else reporting something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u257	I think you have made this point clear enough. I see Mrs. Chicken still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u258	Again, I do not agree with the Minister when it comes to the Personal Data Authority, also because calculations simply show that if you lay down all the tasks there, there must be more FTEs. But I'm not going to have that discussion any further. It will be discussed at another time and perhaps in a coalition agreement, whoever is sitting at the table. My question is this. We have a major challenge in the field of ICT to manage this crisis, both when it comes to testing, vaccinating and making agreements. If I read all the minutes now, I can see that VWS is involved on all sides, but that JenV is actually missing. We also note with each other that there are a lot of tasks in the area of Minister De Jonge. My question is: where is JenV in this story? I also ask this because we have known for a long time that things are not going well. This is also known to the Ministry of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u259	Does Mrs. Kuik specifically refer to information security? Because, of course, JenV is very closely involved in managing this crisis when it comes to enforcement in many areas. I believe that my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, is standing here regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u260	Yeah, we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u261	We're not talking about riots or anything. I thought I was in a debate here about data leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u262	I said that to make it specific. When it comes specifically to information security, the role of justice is that of legislator. We're setting the framework for that. We are responsible for the supervisor, who has a high degree of independence, but we must ensure that the AP can do its job properly. This means that we are not involved in the development and architecture of a lot of trajectories. My colleague De Jonge has just indicated which improvements are being made within the healthcare pillar to ensure that you get back up to par as soon as possible. We're on the surveillance side. If something really doesn't go well, then the AP is on top of it. The AP is now in a phase that they really have regular contact with the GGD to see if the agreements are good and whether they are being met. They call that even enhanced surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u263	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u264	The checks-and-balances were just not good, because there were all alarm signals, both internally and via the media, and it took a long time to intervene. Can we now expect an active role of this Minister when it comes to the further development of this dossier? There are promises being made that we have yet to see if they are realistic. The supervisor just doesn't have enough capacity. So that also really calls for active interference. At least that is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u265	I'm gonna do it very precisely. I'm not the AP. I think the AP would also be very annoying if I said: I'm going to order the AP now. It's not an execution organization. In fact, it is legally forbidden for them to be given instructions from the responsible minister. I answer, I make sure that the AP can do its job properly and I can assure you that the AP has indicated to me that they are on top of this. So, yeah, they're involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u266	Good. Then I'm going to see Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u267	I would like to touch on the question just asked by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Hijink about the signaling role of the AP. This is also seen in other supervisors, such as the ILT or the NVWA; it is precisely the need for research to be carried out on its own initiative. The Minister actually makes that very small. He says: it is caricatured when it is said that there is very little FTE for it, because it is not at all intended to do so. But I just read on the website of the AP, in their own description of their activities: "Doing research on their own initiative into possible violations of the law." That's their role. Then we'll have to equip them for that, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u268	I fully agree with that, but the caricature is that there would only be 0.2 or 1 fte available to do this kind of work. More than 180 people work and the main task of the AP is to monitor compliance with the GDPR. That's her right to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u269	Sure, only in response to the questions said the Minister: Yes, if a report is made, because that is mandatory, then the AP will supervise. But just doing research on its own initiative, signaling, seeing what goes wrong is explicitly an assignment. We don't equip them for that now, with all the consequences of that. So we have to take responsibility for that, especially when we, as a government, collect and process so incredibly much data?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u270	I just indicated how the AP is filling in her surveillance. That happens along three lines. One: risk-driven. Two: focussed on compliance, so not immediately with your coupon book but make sure that you can also use lighter forms to ensure that organizations become compliant. Three: with an intensification. You don't immediately grab your most sacred means. When I look at this case, I really have the impression that it went along that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u271	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u272	Now the Minister goes back to the case, but we are talking about something broader, namely the functioning of the Personal Data Authority. The Minister returns to all questions about his own investigation with: risk-oriented. But just now, in response to colleagues Verhoeven and Hijink, it was literally said: no, there is a report and then there is an action, it is not the intention at all for them to carry out their own research. But that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u273	The vast majority of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u274	That's what I'm reading, so that's what we're supposed to do, and that's what we have to equip them for, and then they need more capacity. Does the Minister finally agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u275	Then we'll come back to the capacity debate. I think we're gonna walk in circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u276	We just had that. There is simply a difference of opinion on this, and I think that has changed enough. It is up to the Chamber to discuss this in another way, and otherwise after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u277	Mr President, shall I say something about the criminal part and the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u278	If that's possible, I'd love to, and then we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u279	Mr. Chairman. Of course, stealing and reselling personal data is a serious crime. I can assure you that the police and the D.A. are on top of this. After a notification was received on 22 January, two arrests were made in this case within 24 hours. Yesterday there was another arrest, and more arrests are certainly not excluded, I was insured by the D.A.'s office. Police and D.A.'s investigation is now under way. This will give more insight into the size of the data diary. Among other things, telephones have been seized and message traffic is mapped. It also examines the measures needed to reduce further damage. The first two suspects have now been arraigned to the judge commissioner. Specifically, I was asked if I could give an indication of the size. I can't do that right now. That would really be premature. An indication of the size could be given if the GGD has a good picture of what has been estranged, but my colleague has already said something about that. So far, police and prosecutors have also had an insufficient picture of this. That's part of an ongoing investigation. What can you do as a victim? I understand people are worried. What are the risks that arise from this? I have been told by the experts that the greatest risks lie in the use of naw data and bsn data for forms of phishing. So someone pretends to use that data as a reliable person and people who don't pay enough attention to it go along with it. That is a real risk. I understand from the State Intelligence Department that the risk of identity fraud is less. This has to do with the fact that bsn- and naw-data are not enough to open bank accounts or close phone subscriptions, but this also applies of course: please let people be very sharp on it. If things happen that you say "hey, I don't trust," please contact us. Then who can you contact? If there is fraud and fraud, the Fraud Help Desk can do so. It provides information and practical advice. They may refer the matter to the police. If there is an abuse of personal data and identity fraud, people can go to the Central Reporting Point Identity Fraud and Errors (CMI). If it goes that way, they'll report it to the police. Finally, Victim Aid can accompany the Netherlands, for example, in finding help if they have suffered damage. Finally, the question was: what can you do if you have suffered damage? Then there is damage: let us hope that this does not happen, or that the damage is at least as minimal as possible. Then there are a number of roads, for example civil proceedings against the GGD. This can be done both individually and collectively. But it can also be because victims join in the possible criminal proceedings that will follow after the work of the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u280	Were those all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u281	Yes, Mr President, that brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u282	Mrs. Van der Graaf, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u283	It is nice to hear where people can go when they suspect fraud and the use of their data. There are a lot of people watching this debate, because a lot of people are worried. I get multiple e-mails from people who say: our concern is that we are talking about short-term abuse, but your date of birth, place of residence and bsn number are data that can last a lifetime. What can the government do preventively, or how can it anticipate? I asked that in the debate because I get that question from people. That is why I repeat: if people have reason to think that something is wrong, can they get a new bsn number? I would very much like preventive measures to be considered as well. It's not nothing that happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u284	I fully agree with Mrs Van der Graaf on that last point. I know that BZK is very reluctant when it comes to new bsn-numbers, because this has a huge impact on all kinds of systems. Your bsn-number is actually the song where a lot of things come together. Think about your medical records in the hospital, for example. Think of taxes. I'm not saying there are no exceptional cases where you should, but if you switch to a new bsn number, there will be incredible consequences. Hence the reluctance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u285	This underlines exactly the concern that people have. It is mock-on that we are talking about this in such a debate, but I would ask the government to think about a package of measures. We know that these data are traded for thousands of euros, precisely because it is interesting that there are bsn numbers. Just a small anecdotal example: if I take a picture of my passport, I can put a template about it so that my bsn-number is not known when I go to stay somewhere or if I have to share it somewhere. We don't protect that for nothing very often. So I'd really like the Cabinet to think about that. What could we do preventively in the worst, worst case? We don't hope that's gonna happen, but we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u286	I'd like to talk to Secretary of State Knops about that. The thought should never stop. I do not want to reassure people unjustly, because I would like to say to everyone: please stay alert, even in other places your data can be alienated, regardless of what happened here. But for example, opening a bank account is never enough for a bsn number. You have to enter your bsn number, but also some other things. For example, a copy of an identity document that also has a number attached to it. It's often in the combination of things before you end up in very far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u287	But you're gonna take it up with the Home Secretary and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u289	Very good. Then I would like to thank you very much for your answers. We have now reached the second term of office. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. I see you have motions, I'd start with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u290	Mr President, then the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a data breach in civil service numbers systems presents a serious risk of identity fraud;]] [[Whereas the public service number (BSn) is an important means of identification which, despite its sensitive and vulnerable nature, has to be issued to a large number of authorities;]] [[noting that a temporary pseudonym-bsn generated by each instance and transaction will better comply with the principle of data minimisation and thus reduce the risk of abuse;]] [[invites the Cabinet to investigate a temporary bsn generated per transaction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is structurally lacking in GDPR data security principles such as privacy by design, data minimising, target binding and technical and organisational facilities, as well as audits and quality standards;]] [[Whereas a high-level chief privacy officer can ensure that privacy and information security are already ensured in the design and deployment of IT systems;]] [[Whereas the Chief Information Officer has organised good contradiction and privacy criticism in the development of the CoronaMelder;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to appoint a high-level chief privacy officer to implement organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Kröger, Mr Azarkan, Mr Agema, Mr Hijink, Mr Van Esch and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-238]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Kröger, Mr Azarkan and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u291	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The minister plays top football, but last week it seemed like he was playing trim football: he gave some answers to the Chamber that were really wrong. Today he has corrected a lot of that, for which he thanked. The child's privacy has been exposed. It is good that a number of commitments have been made in the field of export, access and, for example, the login. I've filed my motions. Finally, I found the words of the Minister for Legal Protection about the Dutch Data Protection Authority unworthy and very disappointing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u292	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that Minister De Jonge has corrected his mistakes and his statements last week. That was also necessary, I think, because those statements did not strengthen confidence in testing policy. We can't afford that. It is really super important that people continue to be tested and that people's privacy is guaranteed. Their records must always be safe. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Personal Data Authority is concerned, I agree with what Mr Verhoeven said: what the Minister said about this really cannot be done. The good news is that we have a broad-based motion to rectify that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that independent investigations commissioned by the Ministry of Justice and Security have demonstrated that the Personal Data Authority (AP) should grow from 184 fte to 470 fte from 2022 to perform all tasks properly;]] [[Whereas at present the AP does not have at its disposal a 0.2 fte to actively search for possible data leaks and that it should examine the 27,000 data leaks reported annually by 2.9 fte;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the budget of the AP in such a way as to enable it to meet the realistic growth path set out in the independent KPMG study commissioned by the Ministry of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kuik, Mr Agema, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Kröger and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. It is good that Minister Hugo de Jonge has indicated that he did not send enough on privacy, that he should have asked for much more at some point and that he should have steered much more strongly on the fulfilment of security agreements with the GGD GHOR. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister did not pay sufficient attention to the privacy of citizens;]] [[calls on the Minister, in cooperation with other parties, to give priority to the protection of personal data in such a way that they comply with ICT security standards and legal standards, including GDPR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that human body materials can be stored for up to three months in a positive test result and can be used for research, and these materials can also be shared with other researchers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that people are asked for prior authorisation to use their body materials after a corona test for research and may be shared with third parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that during Question Time on Tuesday, 26 January 2021, the Minister has proved to have misinformed the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Minister to first find out what is really happening and to acquire the right knowledge and then to inform the Chamber correctly and fully, so that he does not have to correct himself afterwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-241]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-242]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yeah, that's a nice one, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u296	Well, I don't know. Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u297	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that criminals may abuse the leaked data, e.g. through the conclusion of loans or telephone subscriptions;]] [[Whereas this can cause a great deal of financial and personal damage;]] [[believes that due to the poor ICT facility, which made it childishly easy for criminals to obtain personal data from large groups of people, the government is jointly responsible for this type of damage;]] [[calls on the Government to support the GDD to make every effort to limit potential damage to innocent citizens, and to assist the GDD to compensate for the damage that has been demonstrably suffered as a result of this privacy breach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Brenk, Veldman, Kuik, Azarkan and Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u298	Mr. Chairman. It is very important that citizens have confidence in the GGD, the test streets and the system. It is very important that their data are properly handled and handled with caution. That is why I hope that in the second term the Minister will be able to call on citizens to be tested if they have a problem, because that is very important, and that he can say that the data is safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. There was a completely different minister here today than last week at Question Time. We have seen recognition for what has gone wrong and for the lack of priority for privacy. It is very important that in a pandemic, in which the registration of data plays such an important role that it really is in order. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shortcomings in the GGD's digital systems are at the root of a major leak of sensitive personal data;]] [[whereas privacy by design was given as a starting point to the developer of the digital system CoronIT, but this did not result in a system that actually complies with privacy-by-design standards;]] [[calls on the Government to put together a clear set of requirements regarding privacy by design and open source technology, which public and semi-public organisations can use in procurement of their digital systems to ensure that these principles are actually at the heart of the process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Kuik, Mr Hijink and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u301	Finally, Mr President. I think there's a lot in how the relationship between VWS and the GGD's and between the GGD's has been shaped among themselves. I think it is important that this is taken into account in the audit and I agree with what has been said earlier about the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party would also like to thank the Minister for his reply today. We would like to table two motions. I say immediately that the motions are submitted in advance, but build on information that has been promised. I can imagine that the Minister I can almost guess will ask the advice to hold them. I admit that I may be quite willing to do so, but I would like to have them before today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the GGD GHOR currently does not comply with NEN 7510, the standing standard for information security in care;]] [[noting that for years the healthcare sector has been the sector with most data leaks and ICT systems are structurally out of order;]] [[calls on the Government to externally review NEN standards related to ICT in healthcare in order to structurally improve privacy and information security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that since 8 April 2020 the corona-opt-in has been established, allowing medical records of 8 million people who have never authorised access to their files to be physically inspected by emergency staff, general practitioners and pharmacies;]] [[noting that the GD data breach shows that a large number of files combined with a large number of staff who have access to them are vulnerable;]] [[Considers that there is an understanding for the introduction of the corona-opt-in in times of the first corona wave in April, but we are now eleven months later and therefore there has been sufficient time to organise a privacy-friendly alternative;]] [[calls on the Government to replace or delete the corona-opt-in so that physical inspection of medical records without formal authorisation is no longer possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-246]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-247]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u304	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has admitted that too much attention has been paid to scaling up and speed, and too little attention has been paid to personal data and the protection of people's privacy. A number of impurities from the previous debate have therefore been removed. That's important, I think. At the same time, there are still concerns about how the systems are now being adapted. That will really require the necessary attention, time and energy. It is also a fact that the minister's task package and sign remain full. Tomorrow we will have the Corona debate, then of course we will have the vaccination strategy, the figures, the measures that are now being taken. That makes me a little worried. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, the criticism does not focus on the individual GGD staff. Most people are just working in our common interest. But let us not only express the reward in words but also in deeds. Which means I still have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that call centre staff hired by the GGD earn lower wages and do not build up a pension;]] [[Whereas the public authorities should set a good example;]] [[calls on the government to provide the hired call centre staff with the same wage and full pension structure, as well as their colleagues employed at the GGD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u305	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u306	Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u307	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to both ministers for answering the many questions as well as for yesterday's letter and information. I think we can all see that privacy is more prominent on the retina than it has been in recent times, and that's good. This is without prejudice to the fact that we must also continue to pay attention to what has gone wrong and the damage that may result from it. I understand that both ministers say that there is not yet a direct picture of who might be the victim of the data that has now been traded. I'll call on both regiments to make sure we get a quick look at this. I agree with the Secretary of Law that you can't just open a bank account. But the information is worth money, so something can actually happen to it. And it's gonna happen to you that in a while, you're gonna find out at a BKR registration check that someone just took out a loan in your name. That is why I call on the cabinet to work actively where there is damage for people. That is why I have also tabled Mrs Van Brenn's motion in order to ensure that where the GGD has to act, the Empire assists the GGD in solving the damage of people who are affected by government failure, because that is what we can call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u308	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u309	Madam President. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. It was good to look back in the debate and to be accountable for what went wrong and why. My group also notes that there has been a qualitative leap in response compared to Question Time. That is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. The second point is important: helping the victims and reducing damage. I also support those who have said that there is still an open path on this very point, which is understandable at this stage: what should happen there, what can happen there, what will happen there? Mrs Van Brenk has raised this issue with a motion for a resolution. We wholeheartedly support the need to remain very vigilant and to support potential victims. The last point: how can we prevent repetition in the future and secure information better? Good actions have been put in place, aimed at tighter steering and better securing. Even if we understand how the effort to scale up quickly has failed in the past, let that be an incentive in the future to use the best security of information when this scaling-up takes place. We'll hold the cabinet to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u310	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u311	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the VWS Minister for his frankness and sincerity in this debate today. He has been accountable for what has not gone well and also indicated the points in which he intends to take action. It is a good thing that the Chamber will be informed about this in six weeks' time, because I think it is important that we keep our finger on the pulse here. Mr. Chairman. It appears that the scale of the problem of data trafficking is not yet fully understood, who are the victims and what exactly data has been collected from who. I think it's important that we get a quick insight into that. I would like us to be kept informed of this in six weeks' time. Mr. Chairman. My question remains about the liability that lies with the GDD. At the moment when someone is a victim of identity fraud and is held liable by the GGD, the ChristianUnion would like to call on the cabinet to include the Rich in the GGD's, which belong to the local government. That seems important to us. Mr. Chairman. I just signed the motion on the Dutch Data Protection Authority. We too think there is a problem. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important that we have been given the promise that preventive consideration should be given to what is possible for the victims. I look forward to the information the Minister will send us on this. I'll close with one sentence, because I'm on time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u312	Yeah, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u313	Well, I don't think I've been interrupting so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u314	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u315	So I'm gonna take a little space. Mr. Chairman. I think it is good that we have had this debate. We know that our government is far from operating GDPR proof, for example, the Tax Administration did not operate until 2024. The debate shows that it is important that we discuss this with each other. An opinion was also given in the Chamber to set up a new Chamber of Representatives in the new period. But it also requires something from the cabinet. I think we could have talked to at least four rulers about this today...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u317	I think there's an assignment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u318	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During Question Time last week and also in this debate, I indicated on behalf of my group that working with a bsn number and as much personal data for taking something as simple as a corona test goes too far for us. We believe that a temporary code should be used. That is why I supported Mr Verhoeven's motion. In the new test policy, the Minister intends to scale up testing much further, also in order to be able to open up society further. We believe that there should be a system more similar to the alcohol controls, where a negative test does not lead to the start of a treatment relationship anyway. It should only be there for a positive test. All negative tests should lead directly to deletion of all data. That's what I talked to the Minister about. I understand from him that he'll be returning to that in a letter soon. That's why I didn't take a motion on that. I did, however, bring a motion on the following two subjects. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are concerned about their data in the corona systems at the GGD now that a large data breach has been detected;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that personal data in the corona systems at the GGD can be quickly deleted upon request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the data breach at the GGD has rightly caused the necessary concerns, unrest and mistrust on the part of the population;]] [[Whereas the Fraudhelpdesk indicates that 40 persons have already reported on the GD test policy data breach;]] [[calls on the Government to present an Action Plan to Prevent and Restore Data Damage Test Policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-249]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Minister De Jonge in particular for the letter, the answers to all the questions and today's answers to all the questions. Thanks also for the commitment that culture will be looked at and that this will be included in the audit. Thank you for coming back to the question of when the organisation of the GGD itself meets the NEN standards. In that context, the next motion, which I hope will be a first step. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the data breach at the GGD shows that the GGD GHOR does not have its ICT policy in place;]] [[noting that the establishment of the ICT of the GGD is primarily a responsibility of the 25 GGDs;]] [[noting that there appears to be no centrally-led ICT approach among the GGDs;]] [[Whereas the development and use of the corona-related computer programs are the responsibility of the GGD GHOR;]] [[Considers that the management of the GGD GHOR itself should be able to take effective control of the use and development of the systems and that it requires sound expertise;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the appointment of a Chief Information Officer to the GGD GHOR as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Berg, Van Dam, Veldman and Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27529-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u321	Twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u322	There's always a negotiation. I shall suspend until 4:50 p.m., I am sorry, until 4:55 p.m.; let me agree with you this way, because we will then have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u323	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u324	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do the motions first and then I have a number of answers to questions that I would come back to in the second term. First of all, the Azarkan motion on item No. 242. It asks the government to ensure that people are asked for prior consent to use their body materials after a corona test for research and may be shared with third parties. I am going to discourage that motion, referring to previous statements on it in previous Corona debates. Then the Azarkan motion in part No. 243. I am going to discourage it, because it does not do justice to the debate we have had. It is noted that I have misinformed the Chamber, but I should have said things differently and better. That is something other than misinformation. Then, in the operative part, there is nothing more than what is already stated in the Constitution, namely that I must inform the Chamber properly. Of course I do. If I haven't done that well enough, I'd always like to come back to that. Then the motion-Van Brenn c.s. in piece No. 244. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The Van Esch motion in part No. 246 is about the NEN standards. I'm going to discourage it, because it's asking for the NEN standards to be revised. That's not up to the cabinet. The NEN is reviewing its own standards, so that's not up to me. Furthermore, 7510 and 7512 will be reviewed in the short term, as NEN standards will be revised once every five years. Then there is the Van Esch motion on part No. 247 on replacing or deleting the corona-opt-in. I am going to discourage that motion, referring to previous debates. The motion in part No. 248 is about the salary of call center employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u326	That's Mrs. Kicken's and Mr. Hijink's. You mean that one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u327	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u328	I'll go to Mrs. Van Esch first. Very briefly and only if you want to hold or withdraw something, or if it is a small change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u329	I don't understand the answer. The minister just indicated that he would come back to the NEN standards because he couldn't give the answers. Then I said, "I'll file a motion, but I understand that I have to hold it because the answers are still coming." But now that motion is being dissuaded. The same applies to the motion in part No. 247. You indicated: Minister Van Ark will return to that shortly. Then I said, "Okay, I'll make a motion, but then I'll hold it until that debate arrives." But now it's being dissuaded, so I don't get it anymore. 'Cause I think both of you want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u330	That's why I gave you the floor, because I felt this coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u331	Then first we go back to the motion in part no. 246.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u332	And in part No. 247. Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u333	It calls on the government to review the NEN standards, but that is not up to the government. So I can advise against it anyway. I then promised Mrs Van Esch that she would respond to the NEN standards, to whom they apply, in what way they will be revised and so on. I will still come back to that in writing, so that commitment remains. Only, I advise against the motion for another reason, namely that it cannot be the government's task to revise an NEN standard. That's one. Two. As regards the replacement or deletion of the corona-opt-in, I have said that it is wise to continue the debate when the AMvB is there. But this motion calls on the government to replace or delete the corona-opt-in. I know that Mr Van Ark wants to record the corona-opt-in in an AMvB and submit it to the Chamber. Right now it's ahead of the AP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u334	Okay, but maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u335	The motion now asks the cabinet to delete it. I know in any case that I can discourage the motion, because Mr Van Ark wants to keep that thing right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u336	Yes, but Mrs Van Esch is free to hold those motions if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u337	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u338	She has until next Tuesday. You had begun the motion in part No. 248 by Mrs Kuik and Mr Hijink. Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u339	Yes. The motion in part No. I am going to dissuade 248 of Mrs Kuik and Mr Hijink, because this is an assignment to the cabinet, while this is about employees hired by the GGD. I can't go in there. That is really up to the social partners. The motion-Agema in part No. 249 I'm judging Room. It asks the government to ensure that personal data in the corona systems at the GGD can be quickly deleted upon request. That's just the law, so that motion can get judgment Chamber. Mrs Kuik asked: is it true that there are signs that this is not going so smoothly? I'm gonna have to figure out those signals anyway. This motion is therefore given a ruling, Chamber, but I still have to figure out the signals, and I will return to that in writing. Then there's an action plan. You know I love that, but I don't think an action plan to prevent and repair data damage testing policy is necessary. That's the motion in part No. 250 by Mrs Agema. Now let's see what the size is and let's, if there's any clarity about the size, see what's going on with liability and actual damage. Then, in accordance with the Van Brenk motion, I will also support the GGD in fulfilling the obligations of liability to help the victims. I'm gonna do that anyway, but I don't need this action plan for that. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Then the motion to part No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) About a CIO at the GGD GHOR. I would like to emphasise that it is up to the GGD GHOR to adopt a CIO. That is what it says: 'to promote'. So I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there are some questions I would answer. The first and perhaps most important question concerns the disclosure of the risk analysis and the assessment of KPMG. As far as risk analysis is concerned, I have indicated that the NCC is currently dissuading disclosure. This could have a detrimental effect on the safety of systems. The analysis has precisely those points which will be improved in the coming weeks. So I'd like to agree with the Chamber that I will share the analysis with her in confidence. Thus, the analysis can also be part of the information provision to the Chamber. However, I shall suspend the decision on disclosure until the audit in about six weeks' time, which will have to show whether it has succeeded adequately in closing cases identified and addressed in the improvement plan. After the audit, in which I would like to take this question with me, I would like to see which parts can be made public. The intention is: as much as possible, unless it is not technically justified. That is the question of risk analysis. The assessment of KPMG is different. That's not our assessment, but that's from the G.D.D. I will therefore consult with the GGD whether I could do something similar with it or whether there should be another agreement. But that's not my assessment, not my report, that's the G.D.D. In short, I really need to have that discussion first with regard to risk analysis, as I have just said. Then the export function. This concerns The Hague and Fryslân. Only those with the role of administrator still have access to the export function. The GGDs determine who gets the role of administrator. This concerns IZB doctors, IZB nurses, work distributors and some specialist functions. Seven people are involved in the Hague countries. In Fryslân we are talking about an unknown number of people. However, Mr Verhoeven has received these signals for a reason. There may still be another way of accessing that export function. That must of course be eliminated immediately. I need to take a little more time to know that very precisely. I will let Mr Verhoeven know, I will let your Chamber know how that has been closed down. Which brings me to something else. And I do that very precisely, to avoid having to fix things at a later moment. I would like to return to a small debate I had with Mr Verhoeven on which measures were implemented on 4 February. Mr Verhoeven summarized my contribution, and there should be no misunderstanding about it at a later stage. So I'm gonna put together what's gonna happen or what's gonna happen tomorrow. As of 4 February, it is no longer possible for GGD employees of call centres to see personal data of large quantities of people. Two. The search function is modified, which requires a combination of personal data to be able to view a file at all. The number of people whose data can be accessed is very limited. In addition, the GGD checks the login every day, but they are doing so now. That will remain until the automatic check on the login is implemented. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions that I would come back to in the second term. I have a number of questions to which I will return in writing later, such as Mrs Van Brenn's question on STDs. I'll come back to that in one of the corona letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u340	Fine. Thank you. Then we wait a moment before the Secretary of State for Legal Protection gets the floor. I call the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u341	Mr. Chairman. A few more motions from my side. First, the motion in part No. 238. I'd like to point out that it's on the premises of the State Department. The question that lies in it seems to me to be rather complicated. But they're asking for an investigation, and I think it's always possible. That's why you're judging Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 239. He asks for a chief privacy officer at all execution organizations. I'd advise against it. The law already states that it is mandatory for public organisations to have a data protection officer. That depends a bit on the implementation organisation. I know that the big executives often already have chief information officers. To put another chief privacy officer next to it, I find something. I would therefore advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u342	Very briefly about the motion, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u343	I'll just have the motion put to the vote. The difference between a data protection officer from the GDPR and a chief privacy officer as I mean in this motion is pretty big. That chief privacy officer must really be a counterpart of the CEO. The FG won't be in the process until much later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u344	I would also ask you to translate all these English terms into Dutch. I'm sure we have a nice alternative. "Current Chief of Privacy," that's good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u345	I know the difference, but I see that in the boards of, for example, the UWV is often already a chief information officer, who I think is already doing most of what you want. I don't think it's necessary to add a separate chief privacy officer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u346	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u347	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 240. I can, of course, ask you to keep it until the next round of budgets, because that is actually the place where you have these discussions about increasing the budget for an organisation. Over the past few years, more and more money has gone to the AP. I have also indicated to your Chamber that we will look again at what is needed in the next budget round. But if this motion is put to the vote, I must certainly dissuade it in this form. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 241 is superfluous, because this is actually what the law already prescribes. That's what I'm telling you. Finally, the motion in part No. 245. I have not been able to check that in ten minutes suspension with my colleague from BZK. This is really on the Secretary of State's premises. It concerns the procurement of digital systems. I hope you're willing to arrest her. Then I can ask him to respond to this motion as soon as possible by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u348	Fine. Then I'll look at Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u349	I am, of course, prepared to do so. Then I would very much like to have that judgment before Tuesday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u350	I think that's gonna work. If that fails, you may be able to put the motion to the vote on Thursday. But I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u351	So you're holding the motion? We're going to vote on Tuesday, so you can still keep her on Tuesday. That's fine, too. Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would, of course, like to thank the spokesmen, but also the VWS Minister and the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-03-tweedekamer-6.u352	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
