ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the budget for Infrastructure and Water State. I'm finding it's very cozy by now. That's always a good sign. A warm word of welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State. There are not too many groups involved today, but many groups have sent two spokesmen. In this way, we have reached 14 speakers. In fact, fifteen. It grows and it grows and grows. Yeah, 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Let us just listen to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Madlener of the Group of the Party for Freedom. He's gonna talk to us for 15 minutes. That's what he's going to spread over two periods, I take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would now like to speak about ten or twelve minutes. Then I'll save some for the second term, for some motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	We're gonna sit down for that for a while. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The verdict we all know from the VVD Prime Minister is: for vision you have to go to the ophthalmologist. It has turned out that the VVD has been more to the ophthalmologist than it has presented a vision of infrastructure and mobility. That vision was far from complete. Infrastructure policy over the last ten years has proved to be a major failure. That vision can be summarized as: everyone out bullying the car and everyone in the train or on a bike. For years we had to hear that young people didn't want to drive anymore. That was old-fashioned. Everyone had to be climate neutral on the train or on the bike. The car is polluting and we don't really need asphalt anymore. And we're all gonna work at home, right? That has all turned out to be left-wing chatter. That is a danger to our prosperity. Reality is completely different. The people choose the car as a comfortable and efficient means of transport. The number of cars in the Netherlands has now passed the 10 million for the first time. The traffic jams are increasing enormously. The Dutch love their car and don't let them bully themselves. They are right, because a real alternative to the car simply does not exist. In fact, I think that the car will become increasingly important in the future in the growing mobility needs of the Dutch. Mobility means freedom to go wherever we want, whether it's to work or visit Grandma. Freedom and mobility go together. Mobility also brings prosperity. The Netherlands has a fantastic infrastructure. We can be proud of that. When I join my in-laws in Belgium, I see that the roads are a lot less good for them. The Belgians who visit us always say: God, what a beautiful way you have. We can really do that. Only in recent years it has been completely demolished. We shouldn't do that. We shouldn't be neglecting ourselves. We shouldn't bully the car, because the car is getting cleaner and safer. On the contrary, we must continue to invest in our main road network. The budgets for maintenance and construction of our beautiful motorways have been further stripped by the left-liberal climate fundamentalists in recent years. On top of that, a nitrogen crisis has been devised. That's how our country gets further and further torn down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	We had this conversation earlier with the colleague of the PVV. The policy he is talking about comes from there: from trade union K, and from right-wing ministers, VVD ministers, who have been in the Ministry for many years. He must therefore deal more carefully with the terms "left" and "right" in so far as they still have meaning. We're on his side when he's talking about resisting charging. We are on his side when he talks about the opposition to the flight tax, which will probably come back in his speech. He shouldn't put that away as a left. It's from there, from right-wing ministers. Then be consistent and call it a right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Of course, you can seriously doubt whether the VVD is still a right-wing party. I don't really recognize that anymore. I think the VVD is giving everything to D66 now. For me, D66 is actually the party in power, not the VVD. When it comes to your party, you're right, Mr. Alkaya. You are fortunate on a number of fronts a fellow combatant against those terrible taxes. But when it comes to the construction of new infrastructure, it is your party who is always at the front of the barricade fighting to stop the construction of these roads. I find that very disappointing. And also the high petrol prices that our supporters, the people in the country, are just paying. I can't hear you about that. We're gonna have to cut those gas prices. Why do Dutch people have to pay much more than Germans and Belgians? That's a shame, isn't it? And I would expect left-wing parties to insist on the affordability of our mobility. But all I hear from the left side of this room is that everyone needs to be pushed into the train. It is only on the left: the train, the train and the station. And the car can afford it. I find that very disappointing. And that's the criticism to the left that I have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would ask Mr Madlener to speak through the President. And I would suggest that the number of interruptions during this period should be limited to six, so that would be economical again. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's a lot more nuanced. Mr Madlener admits that, and I am pleased about that. When it comes to petrol prices, he's got a point, but we're back on free public transport. And we are also in favour of a lower gas bill, for example, so it is not at all so black and white that the left says one and the right says the other. As has already been said, the ministers in the ministry whose budget we are discussing today have been members of the VVD for many years. They come from right-wing parties that take the people at home. So don't be so black and white and call it, for example, the middle parties and the popular parties. Then people could still understand it, but it is not as black and white in terms of "left" and "right" as Mr Madlener indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am very pleased with Mr Alkaya's comment. He's right, too. But Mr. Alkaya is wrong about the free public transport, where the motorist pays the top price. That's where the SP leaves it, because a lot of people can't just use public transport. It's the drivers who are paying the price now. That's hurting our economy. This also damages the purchasing power of your constituents. The people who vote for the SP also want to be able to drive a car, and those people are completely abandoning you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Alkaya is abandoning him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes, of course, I say that through the chairman. Anyway, I'll be on the VVD, because that's probably the biggest problem. It used to be a bit of a party for the motorist, but well, that's what my further argument is about. That's totally abandoned. The VVD completely leaves it hanging when it comes to the interests of the ordinary, working Dutch. Mr. Chairman. Most people in the country are not at all engaged in a so-called climate crisis. And they don't have a nitrogen crisis at all. No, we're having a political identity crisis. A parallel society has emerged in which the old political parties no longer have any regard for the everyday lives of ordinary citizens, in which political will and left-wing moralists determine the direction, rather than ordinary citizens. For example, in Europe's busiest country and in almost the busiest country in the world, we can still allow so many asylum seekers. The Netherlands has been made an immigration country by the VVD and by those middle parties. That is, of course, terrible, because it is already far too busy in this country. In the meantime, 17.5 million people live in the Netherlands and every year 100,000 are added. Those people, of course, also drive cars and they have to live in houses we don't have. And many cars in the Netherlands are also polluting, because the bpm fine, also held high by the current government, means that new cars can no longer be paid. The Dutch pay the highest prices in Europe for a new car. So we import massive old used cars from Germany. The Dutch pay the highest price in the world for petrol. We are again in massive traffic and roads are no longer built. Because you can start to "prize" scarcity: the charging. Yeah, that's high on the political agenda again. It's just communism 2.0 coming up. It is a mega-project which is doomed to failure and which will cost the public a great deal. And the VVD has fallen completely out of control as a car party. The PVV wants that completely different. We want a government that is there for the citizens, that listens to the citizens in our country. We want a serviceable government, which increases opportunities and prosperity instead of taking it away. We want affordable fuel. We want sufficient, wide and safe roads. And we want modern, affordable cars for everyone. Lower those high fuel prices. My colleague, Edgar Mulder, is therefore going to table a motion on this matter shortly. It's just another one, but okay, we keep trying. Our infrastructure needs to be maintained instead of breaking it down. We are awaiting a new cabinet, so this budget falls a bit between ship and ship, but the mess that the previous cabinet has made must really stop. The investments in roads have completely stopped, projects have slowed down and maintenance is no longer being carried out. That really has to stop. Mr Remkes is presenting all sorts of reports on the self-defeated nitrogen crisis. Mr Remkes is also a VVD Minister. This self-defeating nitrogen crisis has led to totally absurd measures being taken, such as lowering the maximum speed to 100 kilometres per hour. This yields 0.13% nitrogen gain. I ask the Minister how many houses have been built and how many roads can be built. I'm guessing zero. Is the Minister prepared to abolish that speed reduction? I have already said that young people would no longer want to drive, but the waiting lists at the CBR have never been this long. However, it is affordable for fewer and fewer young people. It is therefore necessary to reduce the cost of obtaining the licence if it is a matter for the PVV. The waiting lists have to be lowered and the costs have to be reduced. Young people want their license. It's gonna stay that way. As far as we are concerned, every young person must be able to obtain his driving licence quickly, as we all have. Mr. Chairman. Good and wide roads are safe roads. So we're gonna speed up the dangerous provincial roads. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday in which she identified and acknowledged the problem, but unfortunately she has come up with a wrong solution. She wants to separate the lanes, but if you're going to separate twice one lane, you can't catch up at all. If that ambulance has to go through, I can't. You must not only separate the roads, but also broaden them. Make sure that twice two-lane in the county becomes the norm. Then you can drive safely, the ambulance can still pass and it is also much safer. Make it national roads if a province doesn't want to do it. Whether it's a provincial road or a state road, I don't care. The point is that that road is being widened. That is why I will come up with a proposal to make road safety a spearhead in the broadening of roads. There are real opportunities here for the regions and for the rural areas. So we can immediately relieve the busy Randstad and make housing possible in many more places in the rural areas. I live near the N57 myself. That's a wonderful example. It's a dangerous road that can be widened there. The trail's already there. When you drive there, you think: there's traffic jams every day; why hasn't that been paved yet? As many as 5,000 homes could be built there if that road were to be dealt with. It's not that expensive at all. I understand from the mayor of Spijkenisse that it costs about 150 million. This allows you to build 5,000 homes, which is very much needed. I'd say, Minister, get to work. It's just an example. For example, there are plenty of places in the Netherlands where you create space with extra infrastructure to live, and then preferably a little living with quality. That means that you don't put everyone together in a city, but that you give people space. Those huge opportunities must be exploited. Apparently, 5,000 to 1 million homes would have to be built, but I do not see anything in the infrastructure. Provide plenty of parking and exit roads. Do not make the same mistake as with the Vinex neighbourhoods, where there is insufficient infrastructure, where the cars are on the sidewalk causing neighborhood disputes and where you can't even charge your electric car in front of the door. Don't make that mistake. Don't join the call for lower parking standards to bully that car away. The day before yesterday I heard a deputy of Utrecht proudly say on the radio: we are going to build a new neighborhood with a very low parking standard of perhaps only 0.5 parking space per house. He loves it. But of course it is a disgrace, because people have an average of one and a half or two cars per family. So you build neighborhoods with a huge built-in parking problem. Of course, that's insane. Probably the deputy isn't going to live there at all. But I hear this sound more and more often: let the car go, and then we push or force people into the train by ourselves. But people don't want that. So build houses where you can live, where you can just park your car in front of the door, where you don't have to fight with the neighbors about who's on the sidewalk and where kids can still play in a little greenery. The compacting of cities and neighborhoods, with people close to each other and where people can't even get rid of their own cars, we shouldn't do that. Building as needed is my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	A question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Madlener is talking about it. That's where we find each other. That's where you have to make sure that if you're going to build neighborhoods, they're easily accessible. You also gave an example of this: 5,000 homes and 150 million, and then it's all arranged and you can get there well. But if we look at the fact that we may have to build 300 000 or a million homes, that bill is running out of money. And you want to do something about the gas prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	And Mr Madlener wants to do something about petrol prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	And Mr. Madlener wants to do something about the high petrol prices, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Madlener would like maintenance to be carried out and new roads to be widened. What does Mr Madlener of the PVV think he can pay for all this? 'Cause that's a big bill. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Firstly, by not giving our money to Spain so that they lower petrol prices. Let's do that in the Netherlands. That money must end up with Dutch citizens in the Netherlands, but you know that story. I would like to point out the following. Suppose you could build 5,000 houses that cost on average €300,000, €400,000 each. That's what 21% VAT is all about. So all these houses create huge VAT revenues for the same government. If I charge 5,000 times the tax on those houses, I'll get to 1 billion. So an investment in infrastructure pays itself back if that's why you can build those houses. That is an important observation. Furthermore, there are all kinds of funds. I also understand that the VVD is now engaged in monetary financing. I hear from your party: let the public debt rise. The money shouldn't be a problem, right? Europe is throwing money, there is free money, and I always hear: let the public debt go up. So I am somewhat surprised that the VVD is now coming up with the question of how we are going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	The VVD is also for reality. We are talking here today about the IenW budget. Just in order to be able to do the maintenance in the coming years, we are under 1 billion in the IenW budget. Last Friday we received a letter stating that this deficit may be 2 billion a year. If we look at that over the years, we need tens of billions. We can't just go here and say, "God, let's just grab that out of another pot." We have to be able to work together. So I ask Mr Madlener once again: where do you see opportunities within the IenW budget to realize and pay your plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	This kind of annoys me. The VVD, the VVD Prime Minister, proudly says: I gave 20 billion to Southern Europe. 20 billion! That is what they are going to reduce petrol prices. The same party says here: we have shortages here on our own infrastructure. That's a shame, isn't it? That's a shame, isn't it? You must go to your own party. You must say: you must not give away our money; let us put the money into the infrastructure of our country. Because it is indeed the VVD that has totally neglected the infrastructure. Now we have bridges that are about to collapse. That's how bad it is! And do fun European and give away our money. The boundaries are still wide open, Mr. De Groot. You know that, don't you? We're being flooded here with refugees who don't leave anymore. Whether they're allowed to stay here or not, they're staying. You can leave those boundaries open. Well, great! Do you know how much that costs? And now you're going to ask me what I want to lower the price of petrol, while your own party is now calling out: we're just gonna let the public debt go up. I'm a little surprised. I think you are a fine Member of Parliament, but you really need to bang on a number of doors within your own party and say: we need to do it differently. The VVD is completely lost. We have a new Minister for Infrastructure, Mrs Barbara Visser. I really appreciate her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	Just like colleague De Groot. I appreciate that, too. I feel sorry for them, because you'll only be a member of that club! You'll just be here, Minister. You don't get any money, you have to listen to it all and there's nothing you can do. I understand the former minister ran away. I understand that. That sounds awfully annoying to me. Anyway, I call on these colleagues from the VVD to have a good time with each other within their own party to table and stop giving everything away to D66 and to that left-wing crazyness. It's just electoral deception that they make a right-wing election promise and then implement left-wing policies; let's just say what it says. Do something about it. I wish them every success. Mr. Chairman. It's not a party in the O.V. either. The years of nuisance and insecurity, tolerated by left-wing parties, Mr. Alkaya, it is still left-wing again; the arming of boas is unfortunately also unnegotiable for you, show that we should be happy that we still have the car. The corona crisis has also shown that the car is very important. The PVV is of course also for public transport. In any case, we want to keep it affordable. Instead of all these mega-projects, ERTMS, expensive new railway lines and prestige projects, we prefer an affordable train ticket and a safe train. How come ProRail doesn't have enough traffic controllers? The snowflakes have yet to fall, the leaves have yet to get off the tree, and now we have the following problem: no traffic controllers. Your pants are about to fall off. Please clarify how this is possible. This is total maladministration, isn't it? With a train as unreliable transport, of course, nobody gets anywhere. You'll just stand on a platform at night and the train won't come. That's a shame, isn't it? Probable new means of transport, such as the fold-out e-steps, are for the load mile or the last part, from the station to your destination, a result for many travelers and not to mention for my son, who also wants to have such a thing at Christmas? Those are all nice, good developments. The Netherlands is the only country to stop this. You can buy them anywhere. Everyone rides around on it, but in the Netherlands they are forbidden. Isn't it wonderful that on the train you don't have such a wet tire against your pants or a steering wheel of a bike in your belly? Isn't it more convenient when people can bring a foldable step instead of a clumsy bike? Why don't we embrace that? Why don't we facilitate that? Moreover, they already drive around massively, but because they are banned in the Netherlands as the only country, you are not insured now if you have an accident. That's irresponsible, isn't it? So I call on the Minister to do something about it, to legalize these things, to enforce the nuisance, because of course there can also be a nuisance, and do it like all other countries and not so strange in his Dutch. Look at Austria and Germany: no extensive technical inspections; just make it affordable and easy. The nuisance and insecurity also remain a major problem for us, like the last time all the troublesome asylum seekers and the assault of bus drivers. It just keeps going on and on. We will also continue to draw attention to this and propose a rigorous approach and enforcement. We've argued for the railroad police before. We believe that it is no longer possible to do so. Anyway, that's what we've been calling out for years. Again the call: do something about safety in the d.o.b. Mr. Chairman. Is my clock based on those 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	You are now at 12 minutes and 29 seconds. So it's up to you to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Unfortunately, I have to leave out a very nice, large part of my text. Anyway, that's no different. As for the moustache scooter, we hope that the helmet duty will not continue. I actually wanted to pay attention to water management, but unfortunately I will have to do so in an AO. So that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	We're looking forward to that. Then we are going to listen to Mr De Groot of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. To start with: the quality of our car, train, water and bike paths score high in the world. As a VVD, we want to maintain and maintain it well. And we do that for everyone who has to go to work: students, entrepreneurs, but also carers, or to visit friends and family, without too many traffic jams and delays, and also safe and fast. That means being on time at work or at school in the morning, at home in time for dinner and then for sports or for the children to be put to bed. And that's why investments in roads remain necessary, not only in highways, but also in N-roads, with good connections to your new residential area. But it can also be better and faster train connections, a fast bus or metro. As long as smart choices are made, where the driver, truck driver or train driver gets where for his money and gets home safely. Motorists and truck drivers are now not only stuck in regular traffic jams, but also increasingly in the event of problems with bridges and tunnels. On more than ten bridges in the Netherlands there are already restrictions, and that creates additional traffic jams. There is really a lot of work to be done to maintain roads, railways and waterways, so that no one literally stands still. And there is growth in our population. That is why there will be more cars and cyclists, and more will be needed. The need to drive or cycle in individual transport has increased over the past year. Quickly and in a way you choose. And if I may daydream for a moment: in our ideal you will be in every corner of the country in a maximum of two hours from the middle of Holland. How do we achieve this as a VVD? Not by stopping investing in infrastructure or bullying motorists. We continue to invest wisely in modern solutions, in traffic safe participation, in car, rail, water and bike roads, even if we build new homes. I'll walk it by.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	A question from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's a wonderful story, and we know it from the VVD. And the VVD also says here: yes, we must continue to build roads and maintain roads. But the construction of roads has stopped! The maintenance's stopped. There's no money, there's a nitrogen crisis. Mr Remkes, your partymate, sorry, through the chairman: Mr De Groot's partymate has just issued a report saying that not everything can be done anymore; everything is locked. Well, we all know that whole nitrogen drama. There's no money for maintenance. Bridges are about to collapse. People... Well, you can wait for the next one. What's Mr. De Groot talking about with his "it has to go on"? It has completely stopped in this period of the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	I agree with Mr Madlener that we need to find solutions to the problem of nitrogen in order to build those projects and roads that are on the way. I fully agree with you on that. It is, of course, a shaky balance, because we need to find room for nature restoration while at the same time ensuring that those projects you are talking about and the maintenance that needs to be done can continue. There is also a lot of maintenance happening at the moment. That's what's going on. However, it is also the case, and I agree with you that there are already restrictions in ten places in the Netherlands at the moment. That's not what the VVD wants. What the VVD wants is that those restrictions are not there, that people are not in traffic, and that they know in advance when they leave home, that they are dealing with those restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yeah, and that's the problem now. Look, what I'm hearing from the VVD is that Steven van Eijck wants to enter that bill-riding as soon as possible. I see Mr Ed Nijpels of the VVD, who calls: the climate, the climate; we all need to reduce. And Mr Remkes of the VVD I hear: nitrogen; all of the Netherlands locked. That's what I hear from the VVD. And here is a spokesperson for the VVD calling: yes, it must all go on. It's stopped, Mr. De Groot. That's what your cabinet did. So I wish Mr De Groot every success within his own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	Investment takes priority over the main bottlenecks. We carry out the maintenance and the renewal. New projects, such as the broadening of the N50, N35 and Node Hoevelaken, but also the High-frequency Rail Transport Programme, we need to prevent you from being in rush hour with more than 500 kilometers of traffic or that there are not enough trains running. As a result, your car stops you in horror files and you get home quickly and safely. We also continue to invest in safe traffic. Every day we see the accidents in the news. It's a top priority. In the vicinity of schools, in neighborhoods, on N-roads and highways, we take on the gross offenders. Together with provinces and municipalities, we continue with the Road Safety Plan, because you do not manage road safety from The Hague. Can the Minister indicate whether there is sufficient action to be taken against accidents involving electric bicycles? Can the N-roads be sailed with the installation of lace pavements, ditches and middle guides? What other solutions do we need? Car drivers, train passengers and cyclists must be able to change quickly. The same applies to freight transport. We want to allow solutions to be found. Think of transfer sites to move containers from the road to the water. What role does the Minister see for himself to accelerate these plans between government and private parties? Or think of charging stations on nodes, but also in your residential area, so that an electric car or an electric bike can load while you go to work on the tram or bus, for anyone who wants to. In what way does the Secretary of State direct at the rate of loading possibilities, as these are necessary for the development of electric transport? Mr. Chairman. There are high expectations about the contribution of working at home to the reduction of traffic on the road, i.e. whether you are still in traffic. The practice is showing something else at the moment. If you're working in construction, care or the police, you can't work at home, just like any other people who can't work at home. In addition, people just don't want to sit behind the PC every day with a track suit, but want to go to the office for a few days for social contacts or to come up with a genius innovation. It makes perfect sense. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are looking realistically at what is feasible. That is why I ask the Minister: how can this really contribute? Are the agreements with employers really going to be implemented on this? What is the expected yield of the project spreading and avoiding? What else are you going to do to dampen the 2% to 8% of peak movements? Do you agree with the VVD that working at home is not the solution for all the crowds, but can have a positive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	By "you" you don't mean me, but the minister, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	Very good. There is a question from Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	I must say that I am really very happy with this speech from the VVD. On behalf of the Labour Party, I have been advocating this in the Chamber for months. I think Mr De Groot still underestimates the influence of avoiding and spreading. It is said by several traffic economists that the traffic congestion really is only about a few moments that come together. It's basically like a day rate that fluctuates with certain things coming together. If the VVD really wants to invest wisely, wouldn't it be much better to bet even more on avoiding and spreading than we are doing now and that civil servants, for example, are physically in the office from 10.00 to 35.00 hours and the rest at home? We will have to invest less in roads and we will be able to invest more in maintenance. If the VVD, the party that is very cautious in budgetary policy, really wants to do this, could it not take it another step?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	I would like to give Mr De Hoop of the PvdA a few things back. There has been a lot of experiments in the past with avoiding and spreading and working at home. Of course, the pandemic has shown that if everyone is asked to work at home, maybe 10% to 30% of people work at home. Only, in the story I keep here on behalf of the VVD, I say that we see opportunities in it, but we also see that people just need it to be at work occasionally, and that it is therefore very difficult to determine in advance and ask people when and when they can do their work at home. So we are committed to cashing in the opportunities that exist. We just want to be realistic about the fact that, as far as we are concerned, the traffic jams will not disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's hard for me. You say that you want to be realistic and that you think that the traffic jams do not disappear. However, recent reports have actually come in, for example from the PBL, which simply say that it can go together, that these traffic figures are fluctuating and that it actually has an effect when you make those mobility choices by avoiding and spreading. I also recognise that people like to sit in cars, that right now you'd rather go to work by car than sit on the train with a mouth cap. That's just more annoying. But I think you really underestimate what steps we can take in this. I myself come here today with a proposal to avoid and spread that. I believe that as a government, as the country's largest employer, we should also take responsibility for this. So I hope the VVD can find the PvdA in that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would like to respond briefly to Mr De Hoop of the PvdA. We are talking about 2% to 8% less road traffic. That part of working at home, all those people who stay at home or go to work at another time, we have of course already included in all the calculations and payments for the coming years about road traffic, the people in public transport and the use of metro and buses. Then you see that there will still be traffic jams. There will still be an extension of O.V. So we will really need more than just continuing to work at home, as in your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	I have now come to know Mr De Groot as a Member of Parliament who focuses on mobility as an issue in a broad sense, so that is very nice. I am very curious to know what the VVD thinks about the proposal made by RAI Vereniging, ANWB, Nature & Environment and BOVAG, which is also a very concrete, even proven, method of solving, among other things, the problem of congestion but also the problem of nitrogen and of nature conservation, which you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	It will not surprise you that as a VVD, when we look at traffic movements on the road, at drivers and truck drivers, and put that away against the plan presented, we also see that in the offsets of what we fuel at the pump for years there has been a form of: the more you drive, the more you pay. As a VVD we see the further electrification. On the other hand, we want to price it on the mileage. So the VVD is really willing to take steps when it comes to the plan you're talking about. But we'll have to look into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	If we take the first step now, then in seven years' time it will be real, so I think it would be nice if the VVD realized that this is the most liberal way of paying for it. I would like to make the warm call once again for this to be accepted and for us to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. It takes more space to live. Whole new neighborhoods and new living environments are emerging. The emergence of these new neighbourhoods cannot be separated from the inhabitants. They travel, go to work, to family and on vacation. Let's not make the mistake of building houses first and then looking at how you get there. Large and medium-sized municipalities want to build and they need to be helped in terms of accessibility. How's the minister looking at this? How does the Minister view it when there are many different locations in a province or in an area where construction is taking place? Is the Minister going to look at the stacking effect? As an example, I take my own region. Harderwijk, Zeewolde, Ermelo, Zwolle, Amersfoort: all places want to build. How does the Minister ensure that the effects of this are clear to the railways and to the A28, the accumulation that takes place there? And not only when the houses are there. This example can, of course, be put on many regions. We need a smart mix of plans, a mix of o, roads and an eye for the region. Because if our residents can live later, but have hours of travel time every day, we're gonna miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	There is a question from Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	Here's what I'm wondering. Last year, as a Chamber, we adopted a motion from Mr Moorlag, at the time of the Labour Party, stating that, at the time of the release of nitrogen space, we would first give it to homes instead of roads. That's what we decided at the time as a room. Now I hear in several stories, also in Mr. De Groot's, come back: but if we are going to build, we also need roads. I am curious how Mr De Groot will tackle this problem of nitrogen in the first place. I think we have a very big problem ahead of us in that regard. I hear all very nice plans, like everywhere in the Netherlands creating beautiful housing and building roads, but the fact is that we don't have the space, and certainly no nitrogen space. And if we had that space, it would initially go towards housing and therefore not towards roads. So I like the plans, but I'm curious about the solution of the VVD, which I haven't heard so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	What I can give Mrs Van Esch back is that I am here arguing that we should not all start building houses and only then start thinking about how these people go to work. Everyone just wants to go to work nicely, whether by bike or by road. We just want to put in a realistic story like VVD. We see everywhere in the country that is being built, but that means that transport movements are starting to happen. I think Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party cannot deny that. It is therefore important to address this comprehensively. That is what I am advocating here, and that is why I am asking these questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	I find it an interesting story from the VVD, but then I would have had a talk with Mr De Groot with his colleague in the 'building, building, building' which talks about it all the time. Mr De Groot says he has a very realistic story. Well, that realistic story means that we're not building for the time being, because we have a nitrogen problem and we don't have the nitrogen space at all. We cannot build these houses and certainly not the roads. So it's not gonna be building. That is the realistic story that I can appreciate in itself, but I think it's okay if the VVD really gets together to think about the choices that need to be made. As the biggest party, as the party that sits at the formation table, I'd agree on what message she's going to deliver and which one isn't. Because making those choices is something I really miss at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell on the high-value road network. I have to think about the book my daughter reads. She's 11 years old and she's reading a children's book from Sanne Rooseboom, the Department of Solutions. This is a ministry that does not formally exist, but solves all kinds of problems under the radar. And I get that feeling regularly at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. Because you have a score of 9 out of 10 for the road network. They work hard for that and many problems are solved without being seen, but it doesn't quite work out. And then there's the problem of closures and delays that everybody's upset about. A good example of this is the Haringvliet Bridge. Because the bridge is taxed more heavily than before and closed faster than expected, we are suddenly confronted with closures and traffic jams, i.e. the driver, the truck driver and the surrounding municipalities. I'm also pretty sure that Rijkswaterstaat and the Ministry suck too. The question is: how can we deal with this better? In this case, the bridge had been moped for a long time and yet for many the problems came as a surprise. Or take other projects that are planned, such as the complete closure of the A12 in combination with regional closures on the N11, N207 and N208. It may have led to good results for the implementation of the A12 project, but let's face it: drivers, truck drivers and surrounding cores and companies have hurt a lot. To deal with this better, I come from the VVD with an initiative. And what does that look like in practice? The coming years will require maintenance. If you have more insight before going on the road, you can make better choices and better accept that your journey takes a little longer. This requires better coordination and understanding of maintenance and planned regional and national projects. We want links to be established between different tasks of the Empire and co-governments and risky points on the road network or rail, such as the Haringvliet Bridge. Only then will there be choices to make when you have to go to work or school or when you have a cargo towards Antwerp. You don't have that choice if everything is fixed. Not that there will be no more traffic jams, because as a VVD we are also realistic about that, but I would say 'no more surprises'. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is satisfied with the continuation of the additional contribution to the VVD. We are proud of all drivers, drivers, tram drivers, conductors, boas and all other employees who have made sure that public transport in the Netherlands has been able to continue during the corona crisis. I'd like to have said that here. The VVD sees opportunities in the transport of goods by train. This is more sustainable, but it can also reduce congestion. We still have to do something for that, because the rates paid in the Netherlands are far from being in line with the rates paid in the countries around us. A level playing field is needed. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. A good example of a sustainable connecting route for more space on the existing rail, more space in the Randstad, less nuisance for residents and opportunities for our seaports, is the northern branch of the Betuweroute. We're curious how the Secretary of State looks at this connection. Furthermore, we would like the Secretary of State to pay attention to the traffic regulation within these port areas. There are still a lot of problems here. Better work can be done by the railway manager. By solving problems more quickly, we are making the transport of goods by rail even more attractive. Good plans for rail and in general for mobility can also be made along the road of the National Growth Fund. For example, look at the conversion of the old line between Dordrecht and Leiden to a light rail. The VVD does, however, have the question to the Minister as to how this co-financing will be arranged. What contribution is being made from the region? The budget at IenW has reached the bottom. In Gelderland there are also opportunities for improving the rail system, for transporting passengers and freight. It's about the connection between Zwolle via Enschede to Münster. How does the Secretary of State view the inclusion of this link in the EU's trans-European networks? In ordinary people's language, this is simply a programme for investment in rail, Europeanly speaking. Because this is an important condition for funding from Europe. What are the opportunities and risks associated with this? Have you spoken to your German colleague about this? Mr. Chairman. The final point of my contribution to this first period is to underline circular economy, or in other words, to stop using primary raw materials. Why? Because we are exhaustion of a lot of raw materials and we cannot do that endlessly. Therefore, it is important for all residents of the Netherlands to apply re-use more and more, without this leading to higher costs in the store. To get there, it's important to look at commodity chains, see how they work. Each chain is different and therefore requires new production solutions. Look at solutions for circular concrete. In addition, already recycled sand and gravel from old concrete is suitable for processing in new concrete, but there is no definitive solution for cement yet. However, a first step has been taken. As a VVD, we have ideas on how to speed up this. We want to use knowledge and expertise on reuse and raw materials in multiple layers of government. Why? I was just after the summer at the construction of a fully circular business building. There a second-hand fire door was purchased from an old tax office to bet. That's fantastic, isn't it? Just... I couldn't. Why not? A certificate was missing. That is the demand that is being made. I think this is a good example of the fact that re-use in practice is in the way. It shouldn't be. For the VVD, it is clear that more space is needed to achieve solutions, including experimental space. Mr. Chairman. Reuse...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	There is a question from Mr Stoffer, but we do it at the end. You're continuing, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. Re-use of materials offers many benefits and opportunities for entrepreneurs, especially in SMEs. There are opportunities to renew and innovate, and to reduce material costs and thus to extract more opportunities for profit, and then to invest again in creating circular solutions. Reuse of material is not only smart, it is also win-win. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. Then Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr President, I was already there, because when someone says 'I am at the end of my speech', I think it is still two sentences, but the VVD has more speaking time, so it takes a little longer for you to get to the end. I am jealous of that, Mr President; I would like to admit that. Good speech by Mr De Groot; clear statement by Mr De Groot. I think my speech will be in the same direction. He strongly expresses his concern about the maintenance of our infrastructure, as well as a wish for where it should go. That concern is clear. That's not that the bridges here in the Netherlands are collapsing.That's not what they stand for, but that there are already several bridges and other works of art with a limitation or inhibition on them. Last Friday we received a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was a good letter, I have to say; Mr De Groot will also confirm this in which the financial situation is very clear and what is the problem of where we are now and what we would like to do with the maintenance of infrastructure. There is a gap between 1.5 and 2 billion a year, if you look through to 2030. We are not going to solve that today, but I would like to hear from Mr De Groot what steps he thinks are possible, not today, but towards formation and the coming years. We note that there is a problem here and we agree on this and that there is a wish for where we want to go. How are we gonna grow there? Does Mr De Groot perhaps see a few major steps in this direction? It doesn't have to be completely exhausted, and "big steps, fast at home" isn't it, but does he see a few big steps? Which line should we put in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	I think that is a good question from Mr Stoffer. The first suggestion I made here today is to gain more insight into the hotspots: where are the bottlenecks that we can already foresee? Take, for example, bridges and tunnels, which are already being worked hard and which we may already know: hey, there are going to be problems. That is something we need to understand in order to be able to share it with road users and drivers across the country at an early stage, so that they can take it into account: ooh, that's quite sensitive there. That's step one. It's about offering more openness. Because yes, our road network is fantastic and yes, our bridges and tunnels are good and will not collapse, but we can do something more about the communication about it. So that's step one. Step two is very insightful, I think Mr Stoffer has asked for it himself about which objects it is now. What does conservation look like? If we look at the task, what does the planning look like? Is it realistic and realistic? Because we both know, Mr. Stoffer and I, that you can put something in a schedule, but it hasn't been fixed yet. As a VVD, we are also concerned about this, and I have already discussed this with Mr Stoffer about whether there is sufficient capacity at Rijkswaterstaat, ProRail and market players to accomplish these tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	I didn't ask for comprehensive all the steps. One more, however, because that means that I think Mr De Groot agrees with me that that gap of 1.5 to 2 billion needs to be filled in steps in order to finally give a good answer to the first step that Mr De Groot wants to take. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	Look, those are the answers we want. That's how we end this debate before lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	I sat up when Mr De Groot talked about the Ministry of Solutions; I liked that. That's what it feels like. We are here trying to address both the climate crisis and health issues with this committee. Mr De Groot also spoke about the different levels of government and the cooperation needed in the issues we are dealing with. I listened carefully and waited to hear about the enforcement and monitoring system, which we have often discussed in committee. First of all, I would like to ask you a very enlightening question, before I put it to you: is your colleague going to answer that question or should I put my question to you? Can you do that with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah, I can do that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	Okay, great. I would like to ask about the report of the Van Aartsen Committee. We have talked about this before in our committee debates. The urgency is very great. Ten proposals have been made, which should be taken on board in their entirety. When it comes to the Ministry of Solutions, I think it is very important to look fully at these kinds of issues. I would like to ask the VVD, through Mr De Groot, why the VVD seems to be somewhat reluctant to accept this whole opinion in its entirety, particularly the last two points, as I understood in the committee debates. Can we all conclude here that we are tackling the whole plan, in order to bring about the change that is really necessary, whatever we have shared here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	I would like to give back to Mrs Bouchallichh that the VVD of the Van Aartsen report does not say: gosh, what are these ten good recommendations. I never said that on behalf of the VVD in that committee debate. I did ask the Secretary of State what this road map would be like to see a successful strengthening of the system. Then there are three parts of which the VVD says: how are we going to fill that out, what is a good way to fill in? Those points are just good, only you can fill them out in different ways and we have discussed them with each other. There is no doubt for the VVD about strengthening the system of environmental services to ensure that they are able to perform their work properly and that the Netherlands is getting even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	The maintenance will be started immediately here in this building, I establish. That's how influential we are! Mrs. Bouchallichh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'm really glad to hear this. I would, however, like to give a few words or give them back as Mr de Groot does. It is very important that we finally get back to work and that we do not constantly look for research and ways of doing things. Maybe we should try that at some point. I hope we can find each other in that. That's what I hear in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	I was a little surprised, too. The VVD has a huge amount of speaking time and does not say anything about supervision and enforcement. We've got a bunch of reports by now. If that fails, we could say. The Van Aartsen Committee says "system responsibility is fiction," just like that children's book: fiction. There is no ministry of solutions; it is fiction. It is very nice that we are now talking about road maps and buttons, but there is nothing in this budget. I would like to know, of course, through the President: what are you planning to do now? It costs society 4 billion a year. You talk about all kinds of things people have to do: a circular economy. But what are we gonna do about this environmental crime? What are we going to do so we don't charge people with a bill of 4 billion a year? What are we going to do to make sure that people are not in those harmful emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think this is a very nice question from Mrs Beckerman. Only, we have also crossed swords with each other in committee about the fact that we simply need a road map. It's being prepared. It's even going a step further. The Secretary of State has promised that it will be prepared for the new cabinet so that steps can be taken quickly. That is also the route for the VVD, because if we suddenly say: gosh, we have to put 100 million, 200 million, 500 million, maybe 1 billion euros against it, then I don't know what's keeping it. We have to have solid plans. That's what we stand for as a VVD. That's the way to go, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	"The route is the road map and we'll postpone it for a while," that's about the answer, do I understand? There's a bunch of reports in there, and there's all kinds of recommendations in there. This stack of reports also shows that chemical waste has been dumped for six years and that the fine was €5,000. That's a fine that's lower than if you're on welfare and gets a bag of groceries every week. $5,000, a dime, at huge profit margins! Could you perhaps, through the President, go along with the amendment tabled by Mr Bouchallichh to invest already to ensure that there is more knowledge in these environmental services? Quite specifically, you can call that a route on your road map, but that would be something we can do now. Because I assume you agree with me, I say through the chairman, that it is a truly bizarre, scandalous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	I am sticking to my point of view, and perhaps that is not what Mrs Beckerman of the SP wants to hear. I'm just gonna stand for that. I also called on the Secretary of State to come forward with that quickly, so we can see how we're gonna fill this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	I have a question about road safety. Mr De Groot of the VVD Group knows that I have already drawn attention several times to the fact that knowledge workers in the Netherlands can convert their driving licences into a Dutch driving licence. For example, if you're from India, you can buy a driver's license for a number of rupees on the corner of the street. You come here as a knowledge worker in the Netherlands, you get a Dutch driver's license and you can participate in traffic here. I have the following specific question for the VVD Group. The CDA wants us to pull a line through that this week. Does the VVD support the CDA Group's efforts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	The starting point for participation in traffic in the Netherlands is that it happens safely. That is what we all want, and that is where Mr Geurts and I can shake hands with each other. Only, what the VVD wants to know is: how often is it that traffic-unsafe situations arise from this situation? My second question to Mr Geurts is therefore: does he have any idea at this time of how often this leads to traffic-insecure situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'd rather not ask again from that place, because then the interruptions last forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	It's about 8,000 people. At least those are the figures that come from the Ministry. I just mentioned the example of some people who do go to a driving school and say: "Joh, would you like to accompany me in Dutch traffic? I feel a bit uncertain, because in my home country I have little experience with that." If you let all of this get to you, 8,000 people and these kinds of stories from school holders, then you can honestly assume that it is a problem in the Netherlands. It's just not tracked. What does the Ministry say? We're gonna check it out. Yeah, then you're gonna investigate something that's not being tracked. So you will never get those numbers, I say to Mr De Groot. But we do know that you can just feel that this is totally wrong. When I ask people on the street, I think they say: no, we have to draw a line right through it. Then the VVD group says, no, we're going to investigate. I would ask Mr De Groot, Mr President, through you. Do you support the CDA commitment to just put a line through it this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr Geurts can expect a hand from the VVD when it comes to knowing how often this leads to road safety. But Mr Geurts knows too, and that will happen more often in the future, that we also need those knowledge workers very much. So how we deal with it will remain a point in the future. You're talking about 8,000 cases. I would like to know on behalf of the VVD how often this leads to unsafe situations in these 8,000 cases. This is the most important starting point for the VVD. The VVD agrees with the CDA, with Mr Geurts, that of course you can reason about this from your gut. But we are not taking any steps here that prevent, for example, the entry of knowledge workers and make the work of knowledge workers difficult, without knowing how often this leads to real problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	Fine. Then we will listen to the Lordema of the fraction of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. This is a kind of budget statement, because I have not been allowed to do the IenW budget before. I like that. A large part of the aviation portfolio is controversial. As far as I am concerned, after a government agreement, we are going to speak quickly about aviation in committee debates. That seems much more sensible to me than it is to the budget. Last Monday we went to work on the Wadden Islands. During the crossing from Lauwersoog to Schier we received a presentation about dredging in the Wadden Sea and about the challenges it entails to keep the channels open. The big problem is the fact that what is being played is not allowed to leave the area. Therefore, sand is transported through the North Sea into the Wadden Sea, but we cannot bring it back to the edges of the Wadden Sea. It is therefore very logical that this system is not sustainable. Lots in it, nothing out of it; it causes blockage. You really don't have to be a mathematician to understand that if there's more and more sand in the Wadden Sea and we can't get rid of it, it's gonna be harder and harder to keep the sailing routes open. I would like to know from the Minister how long she believes this system will last. How do we sort for when the Wadden Islands are becoming increasingly difficult to reach? What are the possibilities to adapt legislation and regulations so that we can shape the best solution, namely simply transport the muddled sand out of the Wadden Sea? In addition, I regularly cross the Afsluitdijk to visit my father in Wergea or to visit skating competitions in Thialf. Last Saturday I went there with my daughter for the NK skating. It was beautiful again. Every time I go over the dike, they're hard at work to strengthen and raise the dike. But now it appears that salt accumulations occur in the work to deepen the canals in the IJsselmeer. Because of fear of the salinisation process, all the work has been shut down. This sets in motion a train of effects. The channels will not be deepened in time. The sand extracted should not only be used for the construction of a fish migration river, but also for the strengthening of the Frisian IJsselmeer coast. In short, can the Minister tell us what the effect is on these three projects, now that the dredging has stopped? I understand that there's research to be done, but that's if it's okay, it won't be done for nine months. Can the reinforcement of the Frisian IJsselmeer Coast continue? What additional challenge does the Minister see? Can the Minister promise us that this delay will stop the reinforcement project from taking place? There is a lot of demand from all those drivers who have to cross the dike regularly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr President. For me, too, this is the first budget of IenW. That's an important file. Much needs to be done, because the environmental problems in the Netherlands are large. Every year 12,000 people die in the Netherlands as a result of air pollution. Air pollution is now more deadly than smoking worldwide. Approximately 20% of corona deaths are partly related to unhealthy air. Environmental crime is estimated to cause 4.3 billion in damage in the Netherlands every year. This summer we saw again how vulnerable we are to water pollution. There is a danger of a water crisis, because many of our waters are of too poor quality. Much must be done, but the approach is inadequate. The stack of reports that draw firm conclusions on how environmental monitoring and enforcement and the fight against crime are failing is growing and growing. Van Aartsen calls the system responsibility by directors "fiction." Environmental criminals can make millions of profits. The fines are appallingly low. You will now get a lower fine if you knowingly harm the environment than if you are on welfare and receive a bag of groceries from your parents every week. That's a bizarre fact. The Court then shows that 80 companies are responsible for 50% of all infringements. A painful example of this is, of course, Tata Steel, but also the asphalt plants. We've mentioned them before. At the beginning of this year, only 8 out of 29 plants met the standards. The Ministry knew this since 2018, but did not intervene. Then the story got worse. After measurements in Nijmegen, the plant was found to emit 17 times more harmful substances than allowed. But what turned out? The government itself argued for less stringent rules so that production could continue. Profit was apparently more important than the environment and the people. A whistleblower now states that not only the asphalt plant is not satisfactory, but that one third of the large companies in this region do not have permits in order. I'd like a response. We all know that we need to do much more against environmental and water problems. We need to tackle the major polluters more firmly. We are standing still far too much, because much has been moved to a new cabinet. Only in December will there be a response to the failing supervisory and enforcement system. This is bad for the environment, bad for the people living around, bad for the people working in these companies and bad for public confidence. We can't wait. That is why we are making two proposals. One. Dealing with environmental violations cannot and must not wait. The Empire can and must now take direction and ensure the enhancement of knowledge in environmental services. That is why we support the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. Two. The approach to asbestos roofs stagnates, while replacing those roofs with well insulated roofs, whether or not with solar panels, as well as environmental gains and climate gains. We have therefore tabled an amendment. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A better environment does not start with households. A better environment begins here, with a government that tackles its own failing approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. In a world that is becoming increasingly complicated and increasingly international, abstract global challenges threaten to demand almost all attention, including in this Chamber. This threatens to be at the expense of our own neighbourhoods, our own neighbourhoods and our own living environment. That is a shame, because we cannot reach great heights if we neglect our own roots. We must continue to invest in our base. For the SP that is its own neighborhood, its own living environment. A nice neighborhood with liveliness and good facilities increases engagement and reduces loneliness, polarization and alienation in our country, whether you live in the Randstad or in any region. But unfortunately, those facilities are disappearing. This week we were able to read how people in Lochem were surprised by the deletion of a crucial bus line to Deventer. And 4,000 signatures from neighborhood residents haven't been able to change that for a while. Lochem is just one example. I might as well have been talking about Cuijk, Dronten or Nuland, where bus lines are also threatening to disappear. The SP is concerned about the accessibility in large parts of our country, but the cabinet is clearly not. The cabinet does not even want to know on which scale public transport is being broken down, but continues to build more asphalt, despite resistance, among others Amelisweerd. Is the Cabinet prepared to do more to make urban and regional transport in our country more accessible and affordable for everyone? Yesterday, the Chamber adopted my motion to get more information on the disappearance of bus lines, despite the fact that the Cabinet had advised against this motion. This is a logical first step towards improvements. When can we see this information from the government? Mr. Chairman. Zeeland-Flanders is a region that is particularly neglected. People have been paying a toll for years for the only connection to that region, while there is hardly anywhere else in the country. Last summer, this Chamber adopted a motion from myself and BBB, again dissuade, calling for the tolling of the Westerschelde tunnel to be stopped as soon as possible. As soon as possible. And according to the Cabinet, this could only be done between 2023 and mid 2025, but the Chamber says: as soon as possible. Can the cabinet therefore confirm that it is making every effort to make the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free by January 2023, because the Chamber is asking for it to do so? Finally, Mr President. Residents of areas around airports are exposed to harmful concentrations of ultra-fine dust. In all likelihood, this is all the more true for platform employees. By taxing sustainably, an important step can be taken to protect them. The aircraft engines are switched off, and the aircraft are for example electrically towed to the runway. According to a developer, this can be done from 2025, but Schiphol doesn't want to do this until 2030, so five years later. Is the Minister prepared to make an effort to increase this ambition of Schiphol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Hagen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is facing huge challenges. Climate change is becoming more and more palpable. While our spring and autumn are getting wetter, nature has been sighing in the summer under drought and heat for years. What was first dismissed as cynical is now the undeniable reality: forest fires, failed harvests, water shortages, rivers drying up, stagnant shipping, brackish water pouring into our land and our fields, streets that are white. Although a forest fire in Australia feels far away, floods in Limburg show us that we do not speak of a future scenario: it is the irreversible reality. We need to arm ourselves against climate change by reducing emissions, with sustainable mobility and a circular economy. But we also have to protect ourselves. Once again, the KNMI sounded the alarm. In the most unfavourable case, our sea level rises 1 to 2 meters. A country like the Netherlands, in which most people live below sea level, is the first to start the fight against this sea level rise. But we're gonna have to start now. Mr. Chairman. Many of these tasks are also the responsibility of the Infrastructure and Water State Committee. It is up to us to join in a more sustainable mobility policy, in a climate-proof country. Let us no longer close the gaps for now with future budgets, as we present the bill to future generations for our impact on Earth. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about a sustainable mobility policy, it is also important that we take lessons from corona. The Netherlands worked massively from the kitchen table or from the children's or attic room. We learned that working at home can be done and that this is a good starting point for our issue of mobility. But yet we are all in the same traffic again. Employers have a role to play in stimulating electric bicycles and public transport, but can also give workers the freedom to work at home. I ask the government to talk to regional authorities, transporters and businesses and to come up with a package with clear deadlines and adequate measures. In addition to working at home, road pricing is a solution for the big rush. Checking is a fair price to use and a guarantee for further sustainability of our fleet. Although this cabinet intended to start pilots on road charging in cities, these pilots have not been adequately followed up. Is the Minister finally going to implement this agreement? Mr. Chairman. Also around airports it became quieter last year: a clear blue sky, awakening of birds. The corona crisis presented us with a choice for a more sustainable mobility policy. What course do we want to sail? Will it be a cleaner, quieter aviation that regains citizens' confidence? Or are we going to continue with the old, unbridled growth? As the Netherlands, we have all the knowledge to contribute to the sustainability of aviation in the Netherlands, but also worldwide. This knowledge origin is only at odds. Countries around us, such as Belgium, Germany and England, make room for experimentation and invest in innovation. Germany is opening new synthetic kerosin plants. Does the Minister see opportunities to work with our own factory in Delfzijl?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	As an argument for charging, it is often used that electric driving reduces revenue from excise duties. I think that's kind of crazy, because, on the other hand, parties like D66 are in favour of tax incentives for electric driving. Wouldn't it be a lot easier to get rid of the billing? People who have no money at all to buy an electric car and who live in a region where there is no public transport will simply be confronted with road pricing. Let's spare them. I propose that people with an electric car should contribute fairly by removing subsidies for people who do not need them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	We are really on the eve of the transition to sustainable transport. Unfortunately, not everything is electric. I think we still have a long way to go. You have also seen that, precisely because of the stimulus given to the tax measures for electric transport, there has been a huge spurt and there have been many more electric cars. I think it is quite clear that this was necessary and is still necessary in order to stimulate the electric means of transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	I very much agree with Mrs Hagen that we in the Netherlands have all kinds of knowledge to see whether we can make aviation cleaner faster and better, can make it more sustainable and so on. We have a lot of good regional airports, where all kinds of innovation takes place, whether in Eelde or in Maastricht or perhaps in Lelystad. There we are all developing beautiful innovations that can be used, for example, at Schiphol Airport to innovate large aviation better and faster. Doesn't Mrs Hagen therefore agree that we should focus on this, rather than just focus on reducing flights, and that we should, above all, look at how we can support regional airports in innovation techniques and improve Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	I note that this is not entirely controversial for Mr Heerema and the VVD. That's very good, because I'd like to say something about that. I think it is very important that we look at the role of regional airports as a whole for the Netherlands in the airspace review. I believe that this is also in the interest of further sustainability. What we are not in favour of is the fixation on the number of flights. We're just trying to stay away from flight numbers. As you know, we have tabled a proposal for a CO2 ceiling. This proposal is based on the assumption that if the sector continues to be sustainable and within the limits of emissions, the sector will have the space to switch in the number of flights. So we are not in favour of fixation on the number of flights, but we are in favour of a CO2 ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	Those were fine and important words from Mrs Hagen about the climate crisis we are in. Of course, we do not come here with just fine words and no deeds. I wonder if it will be the case from now on that D66 gives a no-go in an upcoming government for the expansion of highways, gives a no-go for the broadening of the A27, gives a no-go for further expansion of Schiphol and of flights, and gives a no-go for Lelystad Airport. I'm talking about stuff like that. If Mrs Hagen has such a good argument about the climate crisis, then I also assume that her party stands for a no-go with regard to these devouring projects, which cost a lot of money and are very bad for the climate, which she has such fine words about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	I do not hear a question at all, but I think Mrs Van Esch knows us as the banner of climate policy. In that line, I think our commitment is extremely clear, including at the formation table. We want climate policy to continue and take measures to mitigate the enormous impact the climate already has on all of us, for example in Limburg, but also on our next generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	I will repeat my question, which I think was quite clear. If D66 has such beautiful words about what we need to do to improve the climate and combat climate change, then I am very curious whether D66 can also say very loudly here: "There is a no-go for the expansion of the A27. Because we consider the climate so important, we do not enter a new government if there is a widening of a nonsensical highway, which also destroys a lot of nature. There's a no-go about Lelystad Airport, because we don't think there's any need for a new airport. There is a no-go for an expansion of Schiphol." I would like an answer to that. If you are in favour of this climate policy, I want to know whether you are also in favour of these projects not being continued. I think that is very important. I look forward to that specific answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	Not to give a generic answer: I think D66's commitment to the A27 has always been very clear. We are in favour of looking at the possibilities for the A27 within the bin, and whether there are possibilities for reducing speed, for example. Amelisweerd is a beautiful area. We are in favour of preserving it. That was our commitment and that is our commitment at the formation table. You also know our commitment to Lelystad. We have also said that it must not lead to more emissions, more nuisances caused by low flights and so on. You know the whole thing. Once again, that has been our commitment and that is also our commitment at the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	When I hear Mrs Hagen like that, I always wonder what she's talking about and what country we live in, because I don't recognize myself at all in the image of the Netherlands that Mrs Hagen sketches. If Mrs Hagen believes that the Netherlands is going to be so difficult in the future because of all this climate change, floods and I do not know what kind of flood is coming here, what does Mrs Hagen think of all these so-called climate refugees? Then why do these climate refugees go to such a dangerous country? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	I think that Mr Madlener should embrace our climate policy with complete conviction. Because where do most refugees come from? Those are the climate refugees. They come from areas where it gets even dryer and where there is no water. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, if you look at our country, I don't know where you live, Mr. Madlener, you will see that a large part of the Dutch population lives just below sea level. This means that within this committee and in this debate, within Infrastructure and Water State, we need to look closely at our water level and the height of the dikes. Especially when the KNMI, a respected institute, tells us that sea level is going to rise 1 meter or in the worst case 2 meters, the alarm bells must go off with us. Then we have to check if our dikes are still high enough and how we deal with them. Every summer measures are taken to prevent salt water from moving into our country. In a wet spring and in a wet autumn, abundant water is pumped into the sea, because at that time there is a plethora of water. But in the summer, there's a big water shortage. You can look away from reality, but I must not ask another question. I am so curious what Mr Madlener says to all those people in Limburg who are dealing with such a flood, where that water literally flows into their homes. You too, Mr President, have seen the fear on those people's faces? It's time the PVV just didn't look away from these kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	As a PVV, I am always proud that we have one of the safest countries in the world. The flooding in Limburg, which has of course been taking place there for years, also shows that the Netherlands has taken very good measures, because in Belgium and Germany it was many times worse. So the Netherlands has actually done very well. We are a very safe delta and thanks to our support for it, our dikes are safer than ever. So I don't understand the whole picture that D66 sketches here and scares people, but my question was actually why D66 brings hundreds of thousands of people here, so-called climate refugees. They all contribute to an even busier Netherlands and even more emissions. I am also always surprised that D66 people are so keen to take the plane everywhere. You also have fantastic nice and far away holidays and here you come with the story that it is really not good that we fly together. Shouldn't D66'ers be the first to leave that plane and stay home for the next holiday?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	Once again, I hear that the PVV is making a real case against climate policy and that you do not recognise the overall policy that is being pursued. I think it is very good that we are here in this Chamber looking at safety and therefore also at water safety and how we deal with it as the sea level rises further. That's what I've been paying attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	I have a question for Mrs Hagen from D66. I come back to the story about Amelisweerd, because I hear Mrs Hagen of D66 say: we saw so much beautiful during the corona crisis; there was no traffic, people had to stay home. Yeah, I guess. We've put billions into it to keep everyone on the job. What kind of reality is that? The measures are being abolished and we are simply rethinking Amelisweerd, if I take myself as an example. You're talking about speed reduction. Well, there's no need for a speed cut, because you're just standing there in traffic jams. I'm from Harderwijk. I have to go to The Hague and I drive through Amsterdam. Why? There's a lot of jobs there, and then you can drive on. So the question I have for Mrs Hagen is: what is the reality behind those 9 million cars we have in the Netherlands, those 400,000 people on the train? How are you going to solve the problem when you say "let's broaden it but don't do it anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	I congratulated Mr De Groot on his sincere view of mobility in the broad sense in an earlier interruption, and here again I hear the fixation on one project. I think it is very good to look fully at our mobility policy and ensure that we can all get from A to B quickly. That's what the VVD is all about. In addition, I think it is also necessary to look at what we have learned in the corona crisis. That corona crisis has brought us a lot of bad things, but it has also brought us lessons, and it would be a shame if we didn't take them. And one of them is working at home. You're talking about someone sitting on the couch every day in his jogging suit. I don't recognize that image so much, but I think it's very good that we're around that rush hour, where it's superb that we're all standing still again, see if it's possible that we just start an hour later. Or start an hour early; then you can also go home an hour early and you are also on time for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	The fifth interruption of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	Oh, Mr. Chairman, I thought it was six in two, but then I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	In your dreams...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	But I'm still using it to get an answer to the question. Because the question was about working at home. I agree with Mrs Hagen that I have mentioned in my contribution: yes, the VVD goes both for widening the road, and for investments in Ov and in bike paths and in waterways. So we should definitely look at that. But that means that you can't just say here: oh, then those widening away are no longer necessary. And when you say that, that means a huge task for train connections, which are simply unfeasible when you're talking about the number of people who are currently using the car to go to work, or go to school, or it doesn't matter where. So my question, again, to Mrs Hagen is: how are you going to solve that if you say "don't do that widening away"? And let's not fixate on Amelisweerd, but let's see it in a broader perspective. So "it doesn't have to be anymore"; how is D66 going to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	I have also argued earlier on in committee that we should look closely at the projects that are at stake, partly because we have learned lessons from the corona crisis, and that it is good to see whether we need to address only those specific areas or whether much more is needed. So I just wanted a broader view, on mobility overall, and not the fixation on more asphalt. Mr. Chairman. Future mobility also requires room for new techniques. The possibilities offered by drone technology are endless. It's not just companies that invest in this. In the Netherlands, the NWO has recently had a drone generator. Think of how time-saving it is when a roofer no longer needs to go on the roof for inspection, or what a drone can do for the Coast Guard. There are already great examples, such as Natural Monuments that use drone technology when inspecting nature reserves. And what will it look like in a few years when our packages are delivered with drones? Can the Minister indicate how drones are included in the airspace review? And will regional airports be able to deploy larger-sized drones for, for example, the coastguard or nature management? Mr. Chairman. Aviation, our infrastructure and the water state face a major challenge: a growing population, lessons from the corona crisis, large-scale maintenance while maintaining a healthy living environment, as well as climate adaptation. It calls for a review of the old-fashioned approach to transport and for solutions, solutions that do not pay for damage to the environment, climate and nature, with circular economy at the forefront and living environments respected. Mr. Chairman. With more than EUR 4 billion damage per year due to environmental crime and violations, we can say that we are not there yet. More than half of the companies are a multi-pleger. Waste is exported illegally to China. Electronic waste is dumped in West Africa. There's been tampering with illegal waste mixing. The Netherlands is a key player in international trade in wildlife products. Animals that have been poached in other countries get the label they were bred here in the Netherlands and are then legally traded. The odds are minimal and the penalty is low. It is also extremely lucrative because of it. The bill is placed on the health of residents, nature and the environment. The conclusion is the same for all environmental crime: the chances of getting caught are small and the penalties are low. This makes it unfair competition for parties that comply with the law. This autumn, an action plan will follow following several reports that have strongly assessed our monitoring and enforcement system. Importantly, information is well understood by the dozens of teams within the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the judiciary and the enforcement services that are working against environmental crime. Information sharing is then a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the system. Now it's not enough. The cooperation between IenW and JenV is crucial. Is there a structural partnership that deals with this? Data analysis and sharing are a prerequisite for effective, proportionate and decisive action against environmental crime. Moreover, the approach helps in meeting our climate goals. What cannot be separated from our climate goals is also a circular economy. The Netherlands has started. Preparations have been made and first successes have been celebrated. There's deposit money on small plastic bottles, and later on, on cans. Disposable packaging is being addressed. The polluter is really going to pay. They're first, small steps towards a circular economy, but we're not there yet. This is due to two main pillars of each product: raw materials and labour. If we want to move towards a circular economy, we need to focus from design to recycling on the quality of materials, on the raw material, instead of focusing on residual waste. Yet good raw materials such as textiles still end up in the grey container and thus in the incinerator. Next to the Waste Fund, we are now trying to deal with this with the UPV. New measures will follow by 2023. However, there is no amount in the 2022 budget for the collection and enforcement of these rules. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this will be implemented? Mr. Chairman. For the second pillar of a circular economy, labour, I like to deal with the textile industry. The Netherlands used to have a large textile industry. For example, about 80% of C&A clothing was made in the Netherlands. The generation of our grandparents often had work in the textile industry. That's how my grandmother worked at a sewing shop in Amsterdam. But in a race to the lowest price, a large part of our textile chain has been placed outside the Netherlands and even outside Europe. Seamshops are scarce. Prices for labour are not competitive. Important knowledge of materials and processing has thus disappeared from our country. But the fact that textiles are in our blood is evident from the most wonderful initiatives that are emerging again. What are now pin shots for the global, huge problem, are important pioneers for a circular garment industry in the Netherlands. Do we have an adequate picture of these initiatives? What is needed to restore the textile industry in the Netherlands to an important extent? Is this budget sufficient for the importance of regional investment? Mr. Chairman. The impact of the clothing industry on our environment is great, from the extraction of raw materials to pollution by liters of paint per T-shirt to large mountains of non-recyclable clothing that are burned. Moreover, clothing is made for a wage that people can hardly get away with. Despite the enormous scarcity of raw materials, we see no change in the large chains. Wintersale, demersal, mid season sale, 52 collections per year: the marketing department spins good yarn. Tempting recycling claims and green promises are made. In shopping streets, misleading advertising slogans like "good for the planet" meet you. I ask the Secretary of State: can the consumer still make a responsible and fair choice? It is therefore good that the ACM has started an investigation into misleading sustainability claims. Two questions about that. How is the consumer protected from empty slogans such as "good for the planet" and claims that products are made of sustainable cotton, when in reality it is only a fraction? When can we expect the results of this investigation? Mr. Chairman. In a world where raw materials are scarce, a living wage is far from the global standard and production processes disproportionate to humans, animals, environment and nature, a circular economy is clearly the next major challenge, but it is also a great opportunity for the economy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	Oh, there's another question from Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I should have been a little faster, I understand. I have two questions. First one's next. Actually, it just came up. Mrs Hagen's little debate with Mrs Van Esch dealt with the broadening of the A27. Let us be clear: D66 looks at this differently than the SGP. We think it is really necessary. But I didn't hear Mrs Hagen say, "You don't have to do it." She actually said: we want to see again whether it can be solved within the existing bin and whether it can be solved with speed reductions. Suppose that comes out that both are not solutions, can I assume that D66 will say that we simply have to implement the route decision as it stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	Those are couples or like-dan questions. I don't have a vision. I wish. I think I can be quite clear: D66 is not in favour of this broadening. It is a beautiful area, in the middle of an urban environment. I think that green is also extremely important for the living environment and the health of local residents. There must be a proper balance to be struck. But let me be very clear: D66 is not for broadening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	So that means that you can look at alternatives, but that doesn't really matter. D66 is against it anyway. Or D66 says: if you look at this kind of practical thing again... that has already been looked at. That route decision was not made on an afternoon-afternoon basis. It has taken more than ten years to achieve this. So everything's been looked at. But can I assume that D66 really is looking at it seriously, wants to reconsider a few things that it sees coming now and then can be for it? Or they say, "You might want to take a look at it, but we don't really care. We don't want it anyway."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	I think it is very good that a decision taken ten years ago is currently being reconsidered with the knowledge of today and, for example, with lessons from the corona crisis. I think it is excellent that we look again at this trajectory. I think that the request from the province and the municipalities to the cabinet for a new investigation was also very clear. We wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u102	I am going to ask my other question, but by the way, I would like to call on Mrs Hagen to look very closely at the Trace Act once again, because it is not a decision taken ten years ago. The initiative was launched ten years ago, but the decision was recently taken by the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. That's not something ten years ago where you think: oh, we have to rethink and revisit it after ten years. There has really been a very careful process ahead of it. It's okay to change your mind. Anyway, that aside. We're done with this, but I still have another question. That is the question I really wanted to ask. That's what I was going to do this morning. It's about maintenance. I have heard Mrs Hagen say a few things about it. I also asked a question about it to the VVD. Last Friday, a letter said that there was a very serious shortage of maintenance. Our bridges aren't collapsing. There is not really much wrong yet, but to avoid that happening later, 1.5 to 2 billion is needed. My specific question: does D66 also see the importance of closing that gap over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u103	I think I have been very clear about this in my speech. The maintenance of our roads must indeed be put right again, because we are borrowing from future generations to regulate it at the moment. I don't think that's a good thing at all. So I think it is important that we put the maintenance in order at the moment, but that we also look at how we deal with it in the future, so that we do not face such a challenge again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. Then there is Mr Boulakjar, also from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. My first budgetary treatment as a Member of Parliament and I am allowed to talk in the second part of the D66 about our fantastic O.V. Fortunately, public transport can welcome more travellers after the first corona break, but the level of pre-corona crisis is not yet reached. And where the travelers have gone is not quite clear yet. Some will probably use the car, others will use the bike and many people work at home, whether in tracksuits or not, or avoid rush hour. Economic growth is expected to return to more people on the train in the long term. So we can't just sit back, 'cause those busy hyperspits don't want anyone back. The last corona period has been well-established between institutions and public undertakings. I am thinking here of Hogeschool Inholland, who, together with the NS and the MRDH, the Metropolitan Region Rotterdam The Hague, has made agreements on teaching hours, and of the HAN and the Radboud, who start half an hour apart to get a larger distribution of students. The Secretary of State has indicated earlier that he is committed to reaching agreements, but these agreements are not yet in place. The direction of the Empire when it comes to avoiding that busy rush, may be firmer. What are the odds left here? Think, for example, of involving large umbrella organisations and trade unions. How can we support regional and local initiatives so that targeted distribution agreements can be reached? A lot of people are relieved that they can take the train to work. Then it is very annoying for travellers that due to a shortage of staff trains cannot run. Last summer we saw that trains failed because of the lack of traffic controllers and yesterday there were no trains between Utrecht and Arnhem in the middle of rush hour. That is a real concern for my group. Is there sufficient visibility of the outflow of people in certain occupations that hit the tracks? I am talking about technical people, conductors, drivers and train drivers. Deficiencies can be seen coming and as a traveler you can expect such a shortage to be addressed. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Rail freight carriers are also burdened by staff shortages and delays in maintenance. Freight trains can sometimes not continue to drive. Especially at the port of Rotterdam, the concerns are great. We want to focus more on sustainable transport in the years to come. So my question is: what perspective do we offer rail freight carriers when it comes to a well-functioning railway around Rotterdam? At the moment there is about 200 million shortage to meet the maintenance issue. What risks do we run because of these shortages? The former Secretary of State was known for her enormous passion for the bike. She has worked very hard for this, with, for example, sufficient bicycle storage facilities at stations. More and more cyclists can now stable their bikes safely and quickly at OV points. But we could provide even more stations with good bike parking. Can the current budget solve all the bottlenecks and is the Secretary of State prepared to at least match his predecessor's cycling ambitions? The previous cabinet has also taken steps in the field of international train connections. With a small subsidy, for example, the night train from Amsterdam to Vienna is made possible. Meanwhile, we see an increasing demand for sustainable transport between European cities. Travellers see long-distance travel by train as an experience and their contribution to limiting climate change. I know that we will be discussing international transport in committee in December, but still some questions today. Is the Secretary of State prepared to lobby further within Europe for good international train connections, so that the traveller can travel from A to B more easily and cheaply within Europe in the future? Does he want to make it more attractive for travellers to catch the train instead of the plane, in terms of service and also in terms of price? Then why do we increase international train ticket rates by 2.1% per 2022? That's a bit of a technical question, but you have time to find out. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Sustainable transport is also good for our climate. Sometimes we can also learn from countries around us. Recently, after 15 years of trial in Vienna, the OV-Klimaticket has been introduced throughout Austria. For a fixed amount per year, any Austrian may travel by public transport unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u106	I was triggered by cross-border international transport. In the last period we have built up with D66: how can you make the train a good alternative? He also mentioned the night train to Vienna. I always ask a lot of people around me: who is on that night train to Vienna? I also put my hand in my own bosom, but we cannot get an intercity to Aachen in this Chamber, whether from the Randstad or from Eindhoven. Aachen is located 18 kilometers from the Dutch border, near Heerlen. There's a high-speed hub. And so there are other hubs we can't reach. We're working on Düsseldorf. We can't get Aachen. Liege's in there. The question to D66 is: how do we get the focus on this, even in this Chamber? Those distant journeys are nice, but there is still a challenge in how to reach those high-speed hubs just across the border. We must be able to work together as the Netherlands. I believe that we do not need a lobby in Europe, but rather cooperation with our neighbouring countries and the ambition of this cabinet, as well as the new cabinet, which we hope we can be part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u107	I hope the latter will come with you. At those long distances within Europe you see movement. People see this increasingly as an experience and as a way to contribute to the climate. So that's good. Those trains are really full. Recently, a train left my own Breda for Prague. It was booked months in advance. So that's good. We're also working on those international hubs Mr. Amhaouch is talking about. There is a plan by the previous Secretary of State to work on this, also within the European context. We're seeing developments there. Of course, they're important. I believe that your party, together with the VVD, recently tabled a motion on these good connections, such as between Aachen and Limburg and beyond. We supported them. So we must not only pay attention to those long distances, but also to the short distances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u108	I would like to continue on Mr Amhaouch's point. He's talking about connections that are closer. I am sorry that so far I have only heard D66 about international connections. I would very much like more attention to be paid to regional links. When I think of one region, it is the North of the Netherlands. I remember Mr Jetten wearing big pants in the Northern electoral debate and saying: there must be a ballot box agreement on the Lely line. I would like to hear from D66 whether they still support it. Do they think the Lelyline is of great importance to the North of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr Jetten's big pants are still very big. We have been very clear about this. You know our election program. We are a warm advocate for that Lelyline, but also for other connections. The whole of the Netherlands must be properly connected, even with Breda and Utrecht, if it is up to me. Of course, we also know the Delta Plan for the North. We want a good connection to the north, so you might also be able to make the international connection towards Scandinavia and Germany. I shall be speaking about the north in my speech later, but Mr De Hoop knows our electoral programme. We have also discussed this in committee debates. You know our position. We will certainly remain a warm advocate for good connections to the north, east and south.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u110	It's good to hear that D66 doesn't leave the north in the cold at least. I hope that will also apply to the other parties who will be at the negotiating table shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes, thank you. I was at the Austrian Klimaticket. This is a huge success, because in Vienna car use was reduced and air quality and accessibility improved. My group recently asked a number of written questions about this. How does the Secretary of State view such an Austrian Klimaticket? How can we in the future make our busy cities more liveable and healthier with sometimes unorthodox ways? Mr. Chairman. With the large housing project ahead of us, it is logical that it should and will play a greater role. That is an opportunity to improve the climate, to build homes, to fight those terrible, miserable traffic jams and to connect the Netherlands further. This is not just a task of the Minister and the Secretary of State for IenW, but of the entire cabinet. Will the Minister and the Secretary of State maintain and further strengthen that integrated view on accessibility and housing assignment? Mr. Chairman. We all know the plans for the hyperloop, the vacuum train of the future. That sounds far away, but a piece of courage and ambition belongs to a country like the Netherlands. We've grown big with it. This type of investment calls for close cooperation, so let us begin to strive for a common hyperloop system within Europe. The Chinese and Americans are not sitting still, so we will have to join forces at European level. Will the Secretary of State be committed to this? Can he say anything in a few sentences about the latest developments around the hyperloop? The test centre of the Dutch hyperloop is located in Groningen. When I think about Groningen, I think about the Wunderline. I hope that I pronounce it well: the train link between Groningen and Bremen in Germany. Europe has been ready for some time with a large bag of money to make that connection possible. It is now waiting for the province and the Empire. I would like to hear the state of play on the Wunderline. Are those funds, that bag of money from Europe, still available to us? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a compliment, a compliment to the cabinet, which, when the corona crisis broke out, immediately took action to put together a good financial package so that the transport companies could continue driving. But I would also like to end by complimenting all those people who keep our public transport moving and who are working hard every day to bring people safely and on time to work, school and home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you. Then Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of last week, on behalf of the Labour Party, I opened a hotline for accessibility problems. I got dozens of really poignant stories. I'll take you in two of those stories. "I see my daughters less than I would like. Just a cup of coffee, or that arm around them when they need it. No maternity visit." Says someone who just doesn't have any money for a train or bus ticket. Someone else writes the following. "I'm not allowed to drive because of a heart condition. That's why I depend on public transport. We picked our apartment because of the bus that drove down the street. But now the bus line is being lifted. What am I supposed to do?" These heartbreaking stories aren't on their own. They strengthen me in the belief that we really need to get to work to tackle this kind of accessibility problem across the country. Too many people stand with one leg outside society because there is no O.V. connection or because regular use of it is simply priceless. It plays throughout the Netherlands, but especially outside the Randstad, where important facilities such as schools, hospitals and shops are becoming increasingly difficult to reach. It is high time that structural policies were put in place to tackle transport poverty. First of all, the problem needs to be better identified. This spring, I received a commitment from the Secretary of State that a study by the CBS on transport poverty in the Netherlands would come out in the autumn. When does the Secretary of State expect this investigation? A pilot of this research, in 2018, in Heerlen and Utrecht, gives cause for concern. In Utrecht and in Heerlen it appeared that too much of the households have a high risk of transport poverty, and I fear for the outcome for the rest of the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to identify policy options to combat transport poverty so that the forming parties can work on this? In order to take a step forward, I, together with GroenLinks and the SP, propose an amendment to set up a accessibility programme in shrinking areas. When it comes to facilities in the region, I cannot, of course, leave the Lelyline and the Lower Saxony line unnamed. I have already said a great deal about this in previous debates, so I would like to leave it at this point, above all, with an appeal to the forming parties: do not leave the North in the cold. Last campaign has raised high expectations. The Lelyline is mentioned in the election programs of almost all forming parties. D66 even advocated a ballot box agreement. It is now time to add butter to the fish. Finally, Mr President. Infrastructure projects are incredibly expensive. The widening of the A27 at Amelisweerd costs EUR 1.5 billion, while the question is whether we will get fewer traffic jams in return. Money that we can also invest in maintenance, which is badly needed, and in public transport. Traffic economists indicate that only a small part of traffic has to disappear to solve traffic jams, for example by working more at home or leaving for work a little later. There is no cheaper solution to the problem of congestion than that. I believe that the cabinet can and should take far more steps in this respect. This begins by setting an example as the country's largest employer, for example by pursuing policies that state officials do not meet certain times. Is the cabinet prepared to make a significant gesture there and set a good example towards employers and educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you. A question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u115	I also ask this question on behalf of my colleague, Mr Minhas, about the transport poverty you are talking about. The VVD agrees with the PvdA that connections between the Randstad and the region are important and that there should be sufficient transport in the region. What we have some difficulty with is that we are here from the Empire to decide what the concessionaires or the municipalities should do. Whatever we have trouble with is when there are buses running around empty. How does Mr De Hoop of the PvdA view the decommitment of funds for local transport which could possibly be connected, for example, with Wmo funds on regional bus lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u116	I can imagine that in certain municipalities it could be a consideration that can actually produce results. But that is really up to those local authorities; that is also how we should look at it. Above all, I want to start a broader discussion on how we look at this accessibility across the regions. I am sitting with Mr Minhas and Mrs Hagen in a working group on the knowledge agenda to really look at accessibility with different glasses. I think we are doing very well as a Chamber not only to look at efficiency, not just how many people actually get on the bus, but how important these connections are for the broad prosperity in different areas. I think that the VVD and the Labour Party could find each other surprisingly good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u117	Fine. We are going to listen to Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. In this budget debate, I would like to begin with the importance of looking after each other in traffic. The CDA today makes an appeal not only to point to others in their wrong driving behaviour, but also to be critical of their own driving behaviour. According to traffic psychologist Gerard Tertoolen people often interfere with the driving behaviour of others on the road, but they underestimate their own behaviour. One example is that Safe Traffic Netherlands indicates that as many as 70% of Dutch people find it unacceptable and dangerous to use the smartphone in traffic, but research shows that two thirds of all Dutch road users simply read an app or text message when they drive or cycle. 850 fines per week are awarded to appende cyclists. In addition, the number of fines for ignoring a red cross increased by 55% last year. In the case of road deposits, there are already 28 collisions and collisions with level trucks this year, compared with 22 last year. And even in the 2020 corona year, with much less traffic, 610 people died. The number of serious road injuries has been above 20,000 for years. The CDA therefore advocates a cultural change around miserable behaviour in traffic. The CDA finds it unacceptable that road inspectors and road builders, who work for our safety and that of road users, should sometimes fear for their own lives. The CDA therefore wants to increase the chances of catching up by considering road safety as one of the enforcement priorities, more standing positions and more use of new technologies in enforcement. That's why three questions to the cabinet, to the minister. How does the Minister look at this and how does she intend to achieve this cultural change? My second question is: what is the situation with regard to the adoption of the Geurts motion for a resolution in order to achieve an intermediate target of halving the number of road victims by 2030? The third question is: what are the follow-up steps in the road safety approach of N-roads, such as the N50, the N9 and the N99? They come up as a priority in the last letter of Parliament. What about the implementation of the Geurts motion on the N50? In order to ensure road safety in the Netherlands, good and timely maintenance of the Dutch infrastructure is of great importance. Europe was in shock in 2018 at the sight of the collapsed Morandi Bridge in Genoa. We soon think that something like this cannot happen in our country, but nothing less is true. How could it have happened that a deficit of billions has arisen in the Netherlands for maintenance, I ask the Minister. What has gone wrong in reserving enough financial resources for this? The problem is getting more tangible. Take the vulnerability of, for example, the South Holland islands, the 176 disturbances at the Botlek Bridge or the 94 disturbances at the Spijkenisse Bridge, to mention just a few examples. The question is: is the Minister prepared to clarify which bridge or road section will have to be temporarily closed if action is to be taken too late? Is the Minister prepared to actively show how many people drive a particular road every day and what are the risks of collapse and/or closure? The last time we saw the A12, we were able to see it again. The CDA is also making another concrete proposal today to improve road safety. In the Netherlands, it is so arranged that people from countries outside Europe can exchange a foreign driving licence only for a Dutch driving licence if the Netherlands has concluded a contract with the country of origin, after careful assessment of the foreign driving licence system by the RDW. It's a whole sentence, but it's totally legal. For knowledge workers from countries with which the Netherlands has not concluded an agreement, there is an inexplicable exception for road safety purposes. That includes their live-in family members. The Netherlands is the only country in Europe that has this arrangement. Apparently it was once set up to attract knowledge workers. Dutch driving instructors have been reporting to us for a long time that they see in practice that a large part of these knowledge workers cannot drive at all, because in the country of origin driving tests are very low requirements and can sometimes even be bought driving licences without ever having been behind a wheel. The CDA finds it irresponsible and not to explain to lure knowledge workers even longer over the back of road safety in the Netherlands. That is why today we are proposing to delete this exception. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that safety should be a priority in the discussion on whether light electric vehicles should be allowed on the public road. I would like to say to Mr Madlener of the PVV Group in particular: pay attention! Experience has shown that, when economic interests are high and it looks nice, road safety is sometimes the underprivileged child. In 2019, the Research Council for Security told us that, partly due to pressure from the Dutch Parliament, safety was subordinated to the desire for innovation in road traffic. As far as the CDA is concerned, as a Chamber, we are obliged to take our controlling and co-legislative task seriously and not to point an accusing finger at others afterwards after a major accident. The CDA is particularly critical of the so-called category 1b. These are electrically driven vehicles without pedal support or where there is no need to step along, such as the e-steps. This is contrary to what I heard from the PVV Group this morning. SWOV indicates that we still know little about the safety of light electric vehicles. First foreign investigations indicate that the risk of an e-step accident per kilometre travelled is greater than by bike. In addition, the question is whether the Netherlands will become more sustainable, because we expect such vehicles to replace the bicycle in particular. We see debris in cities in other European countries due to the fact that vehicles are placed everywhere and nowhere. Can the Minister promise that category 1b vehicles will only be allowed on public roads if it is absolutely clear that road safety can be adequately secured and is the expectation that the number of road deaths and road casualties will not increase? Is the Minister prepared to give the Chamber more insight into the road safety aspects of allowing vehicles in category 1 (b) on the public road and to inform the Chamber about this in the short term? If the answer is insufficient, I'm considering a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u119	The Minister has been warned. There is a question from Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u120	A question and a response, because I'm a little challenged to that. I understand the concern of the CDA Group when it comes to the safety of e-steps, but the reality is that these things are driving around all over the world. The same applies to our own country. I see it in my own village. I see plenty of adults and kids taking advantage of those things. I understand that your liability insurance does not pay out if you make an accident with it, because they are still not allowed in the Netherlands. I think that's a big mistake. We can close our eyes to that, Mr. Geurts, but the reality is that hundreds of thousands of people already own one of those things. That number will only increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr Madlener is making great speeches. I will try to refresh Mr Madlener's memory. In 2019, the PVV Group, through Mr Van Aalst, was very hard hit by the Minister. The Minister had to apologize. The government had failed horribly. All these words were used in that debate in 2019. Mr Van Aalst then tabled a motion stating that when new vehicles were introduced, road safety had to be put above innovation. That motion was also passed here in the Chamber. The story I hear now from the current PVV Group and the current spokesman, Mr Madlener, is 180 degrees different. What is the real PVV? I ask myself that through you, Mr President, because I cannot put a question to Mr Madlener in this debate. This is a 180-degree rotation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u122	I just explained it to you. You can want that, but you have to maintain it. I see them driving everywhere, all over Europe, but also in the Netherlands. If it is not maintained and everyone is now driving around on such a step, I think: that is a policy of nothing. If you're gonna do something, you're gonna have to keep it. Otherwise, you just don't have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u123	Dear Mr. Madlener, they're just not allowed. It's being maintained. I notice that the PVV Group has taken the past completely out of its memory on this point and says: innovation is fun, and this is nice for the have. I heard that Mr Madlener's contribution was also to be welcomed. The PVV group also says: we are simply going to allow this to happen and try to introduce the e-step even further into Dutch traffic. I do not understand the position of the PVV Group at all when I look at 2019 and now at 2021. Maybe we'll get out of there with the pleasure of a stuffed cake at a later moment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have questions about the duty of helmets for moustache cyclists, the handling of traffic jams and the display of the maximum speed on the matrix boards. One. How can it be that since January 2019 the House of Representatives has been advocating the rapid introduction of mustache cyclists' helmets by means of several motions, and that the Minister now, with a dry eye, wishes to postpone their introduction by six months until 1 January 2023, because it is unclear whether there would be enough helmets available? What does the Minister say about the proactivity, the political will and the preparation of this arrangement? I ask this question to the Minister. The CDA is very critical about a further delay in the duty to helmet for moustache cyclists in connection with ensuring road safety. Here too, a profit warning: we are considering a motion. Then there is my second question in conclusion. What hard agreements has the Minister made with employers and what hard agreements will she make over the next six months about working at home and working more flexibly to ensure that congestion will become structurally less? My third question, finalizing. The House of Representatives has been clear on several occasions about the display of the maximum speed on the matrix boards, of course only at times when there is nothing else to report. Can the Minister finally undertake to meet the wishes of the Chamber by finally getting the pilot started? Research shows that 73.5% of respondents think this is a good or very good idea. This system has been applied to, for example, the Ringweg A10 in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. That shows that the pilot can take place safely. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you. In order to give Mr Geurts and Mr Madlener some time for a stuffed cake, I suspend for two or three minutes. This also has to do with a request from box K for a small sanitary stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u125	We're going to listen to Mr. Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with current events. Yesterday morning there was another hit: the train traffic in the middle of the country was quite disturbed. There were no trains between Utrecht and Arnhem in the morning rush. Particularly annoying, said a spokesperson for ProRail. Unacceptable, as far as the CDA is concerned. It is not a question of the trains not driving because of a technical problem or an accident. We have talked about this and about connections between the two provincial capitals Utrecht and Arnhem. Thousands of people make use of this train route in the morning. Thousands of people couldn't go to work yesterday. All nice and nice, those night trains to European capitals, but in the meantime we seem to be unable to get the trains to run over our crucial main rail network. And I can really get excited about that. The CDA knows that ProRail suffers from staff shortages, and also appreciates the people who work hard for them. But I understand that this has been going on for a number of years. As far as the CDA is concerned, this should not happen in a prosperous country. The shortage of train service leaders has been playing for years and is not just today. Steps need to be taken now. Who takes this responsibility, I ask here. And what does this also mean for our Future Image OV 2040? We can make very nice, ambitious plans. Is there going to be an independent investigation, as the unions forced to do at the beginning of this year? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the concession for the main rail network states that the NS is obliged to use buses in the event of disturbances. Why didn't this happen yesterday? Who's decided that people have to figure it out on their own? Again, this really can't be. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. My colleague Geurts has already mentioned this: standards and values are also important in traffic. The CDA has been bothering to spray graffiti on trains for years. This is really getting out of hand. The unsubs need to get a better sense of what they're doing. Last year, no less than 142,000 square metres of train were flooded. That's about 20 football fields. It costs the NS 10 million euros a year to make this disappear. For the figures: more than €75 per square meter. In addition, these trains are not available. The damage is therefore enormous, both in terms of cost and availability and mobility. The CDA welcomes the fact that the NS recently stepped out with this problem. The CDA would like to see an awareness-raising campaign launched together with rail transport operators, so that we can see where this criminal behaviour leads. Is the Secretary of State prepared to speed this up together with the rail transport operators? The CDA would also like to see a better and harder approach for the victims. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to a general point, namely the miserable behaviour in public transport. During the period of corona time, the CDA has been disturbed by the increasing number of cases of antisocial behaviour in public transport. Last year, the cabinet had a protocol drawn up to prevent antisocial behaviour in public transport. Unfortunately, the figures have risen again. In 2019 we had 678 cases and last year the numerator was already at 661, so even in corona time, with fewer travelers. I ask the Secretary of State whether it will finally be possible for companies to share their personal data with each other. And what does the Secretary of State think of the points system for travellers based on the German driving licence system? For minor offences you are given one point and for serious offences two or three points. And at eight points just close the door: stop it! And there's a letter to the parents when it comes to a minor. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. As you are used to me, I like to focus on innovative solutions. Last year I tabled a motion asking the government to set up an innovative rail think tank as part of the rail concession with the NS. Can the Secretary of State state state the status of this think tank? In the letter of 9 June last, the government indicated that a reconnaissance was taking place. Why does all this have to take so long? Where does the Secretary of State's wait-and-see attitude come from? How can we motivate the NS to participate actively and constructively in this think tank? And I also know that this Secretary of State has only been there for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u127	You're aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u129	I just wanted to give Mrs. Bouchallichh the opportunity to interrupt, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u130	I am shocked by the points system and the strict enforcement in cases such as graffiti. Well, well, that indeed needs to be addressed. However, I do miss the fire I see in dealing with this type of crime when it comes to dealing with environmental crime, the major polluters, the people who make sure that the climate is ruined and that our health is under pressure. I hear from both you and your colleague Geurts that it is very much about personal responsibility, about individuals, and that we have to take care of each other. But can you explain to us how the CDA stands with regard to environmental crime? What point system are we going to use there? How are we going to deal with them? Then maybe we'll have some money to clean the trains on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'm not about the environment, but as a CDA, we have an opinion on miserable behavior, whether it's about the environment, the dumping of drug waste on the outskirts or the spraying of the train. I can imagine young people or other people thinking: spraying that train is beautiful art. But they need to be aware of what that does. The proposal of our system is not hard at all. I think that's raising. That should initially happen at home at the kitchen table. The Germans have a nice point system for that. You get one point and if you keep going, the same goes for the football field: twice yellow is red.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then, please, let us raise the big polluters just as hard, let us raise them who, at the expense of the public interest, do all kinds of things they can get away with. The colleague has just indicated that fines are not even paid because they are included in the company's risk analysis. What is the CDA doing to tackle these pollutants properly and to take care of the citizens and not just to look at the people on the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u133	I think I'm repeating myself. I'm not about the environment, but I do know how big the problems are because of miserable behavior. Whether it's about companies, drug dealers dumping chemical waste in the woods and on the trails, or miserable behaviour on the train: I think we all have a task to deal with, without distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u134	The very last time. Yes, we all have the same task. You're going to rule. What is the CDA going to do to tackle the major polluters? You are just proposing a very concrete point system against citizens. What do you propose with regard to major polluters? Do you have any very specific ideas about this? You can say 'we are not about that', but perhaps the colleague does, and I would like to hear just as much fire in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u135	Could Mrs van GroenLinks be a little more specific in what she means by...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u137	If she doesn't, I'm gonna have a hard time answering that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u138	Bastards this, motherfuckers that. Very good. There are also assholes who cause 4 billion in social damage. I find it remarkable that the two largest coalition parties do not speak of this today. 4 billion damage to the environment, and that's just an estimate. I would therefore like to ask you very specifically...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u139	I would like Mr. Amhaouch...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u140	Excuse me. But I also like it if the President supports the proposal; then we would be on our way. I would be delighted if Mr Amhaouch, in this case, would support the proposal put forward by my colleague Mr Bouchallichh van GroenLinks in order to free up money already to ensure that environmental services can do more. If you're so for tackling... If Mr. Amhaouch is so in favour of dealing with miserable behavior: here are very big assholes to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u141	We don't distinguish between assholes. There are no good and bad bastards. I think it's a little weird. We know what the division of roles is like. There are several parties here that have two spokesmen. I do not understand why that question has not just been asked to those who are dealing with the environment or other matters. I'm dealing with public transport, I'm dealing with aviation. You can ask me all about it. You can ask me all about the trains. The general answer is that the CDA doesn't know any good or bad bastards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u142	Then I think the motion against miserable environmental behavior is supported. I think there has been confusion because the two largest coalition parties just didn't talk about it. We're listening and waiting. I hear Mrs Hagen would like to support the amendment. That's a win in advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u144	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the CDA took the lead in developing the Delta Plan for the North to stimulate accessibility and living and working in the North. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the feasibility of the Lelyline in view of future large-scale housing and economic developments in the northern provinces and in this direction? Mr. Chairman. If we want the train to be a logical alternative to air travel in Europe, we will have to show greater ambition. It has still not been possible to achieve a decent train connection between the Randstad or Eindhoven and Aachen; we have just had a little debate on this. There's gotta be another way, and there's gotta be another way. The European Union is making sufficient resources available to improve the European rail network. How much money has the Netherlands received over the past five years to better connect the Dutch track with its neighbouring countries, I ask the Secretary of State. What projects were financed with this money? The EU multi-annual budget 2021-2027 has also made funds available again for the co-financing of CEF and Member States' transport projects. The Secretary of State indicated in the letter of 9 June that the first call will be made this autumn. Has that happened yet? Can the Secretary of State state state what plans are in place? Is there coordination from the Ministry? Why is Eindhoven Centraal station, which is an important hub for the southeast of the Netherlands and a crucial link towards Germany and Belgium, not mentioned as a possible project proposal? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, aviation. For the Netherlands, competitive and sustainable aviation at Schiphol Airport and regional airports are important for the economy and employment. Our starting point is to find a new balance between people, the environment and the economy. In the 2018 Amhaouch/Paternotte motion, the government has been requested to make biokerosin available at Schiphol Airport from 2022 at the latest. It's almost 2022. How much biokerosin will be available at Schiphol Airport in 2022? What about the ambition to make synthetic kerosene competitive? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to my conclusion. The CDA also considers it important that Schiphol and regional airports act more as a joint Dutch network. This will make it possible to make better use of available capacity and to create more social value rather than compete unnecessarily. How does the Minister intend to ensure a more overarching, integrated direction between these Dutch airports?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. I'm glad you were with us. We are going to listen to Mrs Bouchallichh from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I hope to conclude this debate, at least for the first time, before lunch. That's a little hint, Mrs. Bouchallichh. No, just take your time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the moment, the climate summit is in full swing. What has kept me very much from that is that one picture of all the Heads of Government who are throwing a coin back for good luck in tackling the climate crisis. The last thing we need is good luck. What we really need are leaders who dare to take steps, who dare to take responsibility in tackling the climate crisis and who work on a fair and social approach to it. We need system change, from the climate summit, but also from here, the House of Representatives, and specifically from this committee, Infrastructure and Water State. As has just been said, this is the committee of solutions. I liked that. Infrastructure, mobility and accessibility are all connected. We have talked a lot about the region today. De Groene Amsterdammer and Follow the Money concluded last month that the visible government disappears from the Netherlands. Public facilities, such as the library or primary school, are increasingly far away. Especially in Friesland, Drenthe, Zeeland and Groningen that is the case. We're talking about a withdrawal government. That's a problem. Some parties would propose to build a motorway, whereas this is a symptom reduction. The government should be everywhere for everyone, but instead public services are being demolished. Meanwhile, money is being wasted on what I would like to call "nonsense highways" and "nonsense airfields." That's not fair. We need a cabinet that invests in sustainable public transport, which is focused on the future and with regard to transport poverty. Fortunately, my colleagues are committed to this. We need a cabinet that oversees big polluters and all kinds of bastards, I say to my colleague, and that producers really hold responsibility for the shit they leave behind. We need a cabinet that does not shift responsibility to citizens, but dares to choose the public interest, health, climate justice and a viable future. It is therefore high time that certain ideas were released. I was pleased with the contribution of Mr Hagen, who said that if anything was ever thought up as a good idea, perhaps it is the right time to consider it now. In its opinion at the beginning of this year, the Environment and Infrastructure Council concluded that ideas and policy choices from the last century are often leading on mobility issues. A hundred years ago, something was once found to be a good idea and from that frame of reference we sometimes still make decisions here. You can't do that. We can't even afford that. The climate crisis is already there and is a reality. We must dare to make other choices. The broad concept of prosperity is a useful framework. We are not only looking at traffic bottlenecks, but also at health and climate. I am therefore very pleased with the motion that we have adopted on this issue. That's a nice step we've taken as a room. I hope to cooperate more often in dealing with the crisis. For starters, we need to stop using bullshit highways. We've already talked about cars today. It's some kind of chicken egg story. There's a lot of cars, so we need to build more roads. But then there'll be more cars. That's not gonna make any sense. The PBL report, which has already been discussed, shows that we can take certain steps forward by working at home. This allows us to reduce congestion and reduce peak load. The nitrogen crisis also makes highway projects legally difficult. We also have the whole housing statement, which we have talked about more often. We really need to build and we need to have the courage to make choices. Moreover, we also need to take care of nature. Yet this cabinet invests EUR 2.2 billion in 138 kilometres of new asphalt. That is useless, and that is why we are tabling a motion for a resolution. These billions can be used much better, for example for maintenance, construction and extension of the railways, for the preservation of bus lines in shrinking areas, for which colleagues, among others, are committed, or for a fund for cycling infrastructure and combating transport poverty. There are better choices to make if the broad concept of prosperity is really taken as a starting point. Then fly less. It has already been said today that this is a controversial issue. So we're gonna have less time to talk about that. However, I would like to point out that it is not useful to consider opening another airport. The PBL recently stated in its report that the aviation sector will only shrink. Lelystad Airport is useless and bad for the climate. The airport isn't open yet. It is there and indeed it was invented, just like with Amelisweerd. We do think that, when the airport is not opened, we should think about compensation. I therefore have the following question to the cabinet. There are better alternatives than opening such an airport. We would like to focus on accessibility in the region. Is the Minister prepared to prepare a compensation plan if at some point we can decide that the opening of Lelystad Airport will not happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u148	There is a question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u149	I was already triggered by the words "chicken and egg" coming from the town of Barneveld. That seemed like a nice hook to me. I get to drive up and down to The Hague every day. Therefore, I do not think that asphalt is useless, I can tell you. I also do not think asphalt is useless to build bike paths, for example. What do the Green Left and Mrs Bouchallichh say to all those people who are in traffic every morning, if the Green Left really believes that asphalt is useless?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u150	I did not say that asphalt is useless; I said that some highways are useless. We are already dealing with a shortage, for example in terms of maintenance. It is also good for the road user that we maintain the existing roads well. It is good that we are thinking about alternatives, so that roads are less burdened. I would very much like to get out of the chicken-and-egg story, so that the people who really have to go by car get more room for that because alternatives are more attractive to others. That's what we know we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u151	That's a nice answer, but no answer to the question I asked. There are a lot of people who have to come from the region because they work in the West, for example. What does GroenLinks say to that? Do these people have to take the train? I can calculate how much travel time it takes me to get here by train; in the evening it is much worse. Of course, there are many more who, like me, come from the region to work in the west. What is the real answer of GroenLinks to that? Does the GroenLinks Group say: "Oh, you're just going by train or by bike to the west; we're not going to invest in asphalt for cars anymore?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u152	That's the last thing I said. I didn't say we weren't gonna invest. On the contrary, I would argue that we should look at maintenance. I am in favour of keeping an eye on the change in the system. This means that we have to look at the people who really still have to use the car and that we have to maintain the roads properly. In the MIT we constantly talk about "bridge x" and "way y." I want us to look at it in a different way and not waste the money on broadening the weighing, but we use the money for necessary maintenance. In the meantime, I want investment to be made in alternatives such as O.V. so that people who want to use the O.V. can do the same. And I want us to think about redesigning our infrastructure in a different way. So I would like to get away from the whole idea that the citizen is being told to take the car or the bike. I want the citizen to be able to choose. I want options to be widened and we don't constantly assume the idea that you constantly have to take the car. Hence my point about accessibility. It's connected. All right, then air quality, monitoring and enforcement. I have often spoken in committee debates about Noëlle, who often ends up on ice because she needs to breathe bad air. We have also received a motion on air quality in the last period. I'm very happy about that. However, we also need good supervision and enforcement. Just now, in this debate, we have talked about the amendment we are about to table on the Van Aartsen Committee. That motion calls for an at least additional budget for environmental services, so that the most urgent problem can be addressed by investing at least 10 million in knowledge development in environmental services. Then the economy. System change is also about our economy. Last Sunday, I had the pleasure of speaking to economist Ann Pettifor, one of the founders of the Green New Deal. With many others she insists on how important it is to reform the economy. We really should have learned much better from the financial crisis. The approach to the climate crisis is also about taxation, fair sharing of burdens and the principle that the price of the climate crisis is not once again put on the people's plate. We have often been accused of not thinking about the citizens on the left. On the contrary, we want to share the burden more fairly. You can do that with taxes. Even when it comes to plastic, major polluters must assume their responsibilities and not blame them on the citizens. I am very upset that we, as taxpayers, are paying for the rubbish of unrecycled plastic waste from large polluters, because at the moment we are all paying for the government and industry not to have the recycling of waste in order. Since 2021, the Netherlands has been obliged to pay a contribution to the EU of €0.80 per kilo of non-recycled plastic waste. That's a lot of money. We can use that much better for other things, but at the moment this 'plastic payment' is in the Foreign Affairs budget. We'll take that money right away from our citizens. How bizarre is it that we, as citizens, take the blame for this, when the whole idea of this whole measure is right to reduce pollution and make the polluter pay? We believe that the costs should be passed on to the producer by introducing a plastic tax. This is possible; other countries, such as Italy, Spain and Austria, are already working on this. A new plastic tax will also increase the structural investment in recycling and increase the use of recycled plastic by producers. CE Delft has already shown that a polymer load is the easiest to shape. That is why we are in favour of a well-functioning load on polymers as of 1 January 2023. In this way, too, we can take steps to change the system if necessary. My question to the cabinet is to what extent follow-up can be given to the examples I have just mentioned. In any case, we are going to table an amendment to that effect. I would like to say something about how responsibility is shifted from one citizen to another. I find it particularly annoying that citizens often have to pay for how industry and polluters take no responsibility, not only in our taxpayers' money spent on it but also in our daily lives. The other day I couldn't return my plastic bottle to the station. As a good climate activist and GroenLinkser, of course, I find that very bad, but it happened; I really couldn't get it anywhere. It really must not be the case that, as citizens, we are disproportionately affected by this kind of progress, because it shifts responsibility to the individual's personal assessment framework. I'm worried about that, especially when it comes to deposit on cans. There'll be deposit money there next year. Previously, we tried to indicate in our motion that there might be a shift effect when we do not sufficiently monitor chain responsibility. The motion was not adopted at the time, but I would like to make one more point. Because the legislation does not provide for supermarkets to be obliged to take deposit money. Well, then you're gonna turn in your can or bottle there, but you can't get rid of it, while 80% of the cans you buy are taken from supermarkets. And supermarkets now want to come up with all kinds of new collection systems, which then fall outside the supermarkets. Super cumbersome, because that would mean that you, as a citizen and consumer, would have to go to all kinds of other collection points. That is not efficient, it is not good for the support base, and then the whole process is delayed. We want to commit ourselves to a commitment for large sales outlets and we will also table a motion to make the whole chain responsible. These are some of the steps we would like to take from GroenLinks to bring about a system change and not to lay everything down to the citizens. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Amhaouch. The floor is up to him. This is your last interruption, Mr. Amhaouch, so it has to be in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Mrs. Bouchallichh is full of energy and passion. She went fast, but I wanted to dwell on two points she mentioned. It was just about the new ideas about mobility. She mentioned that people linger in old ideas, and she ended up a little bit with: yes, I'm a climate activist. And I also know GroenLinks as a reasonable party when it comes to the indeed huge challenge in the climate transition. The question is whether we are going to get there with those two points. And where I want to go: that "in old ideas" stick. When I hear Mrs. Bouchallichh talking about aviation, I don't hear her talking about where we come from with the track. We started the track 180 years ago; creating coal, then to diesel trains, from diesel trains to grey electricity, and from grey electricity to green electricity. And when we talk about aviation, one way or another, we're stuck. Isn't it also GroenLinks? and that's my question? that we need to make more sure that we are actually going to make the world better and that we are going to focus on innovations, then just say 'this cannot and cannot', as if the problem doesn't exist? So I would like to see Mrs Bouchallichh's hand-out there. Let us also focus on the sustainability of aviation, because the whole world continues to fly, and we are only a relatively small country. We can also play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u155	That was a short question. And nice and tidy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u156	Yes, a short question, with a lot of different points. So I'll try to do justice to that, even though I really like to hear it when I miss something. First of all, the development of the railways. I just heard you say that it lasted 180 years. We really don't have that time. The climate crisis is already going on, and I am very worried about that. If I could, I would have taken the time to reflect on developments, sustainability, innovation. That's what I'm here for. That's what we're like GroenLinks for. However, what we stand for is that climate transition should have started long ago, for the future, for our present generations, for the health of those who suffer most from air quality, and for those on the other side of the world who are already dealing with forest fires and drought. So no, I don't feel that time, indeed; we don't have 180 years. Two. When it comes to the sustainability of aviation specifically: steps are being taken, but that is far from enough. And then again to make the choices to invest in it instead of in the other possibilities and resources that have been mentioned today, such as the train... We would like to opt for a better international track, because it also allows you to travel for the holidays that people really want. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u157	Fine, very good, thank you very much. You have summarized your own text; you were given that shot for an open purpose. We are going to listen to both spokesmen of the Party for Animals, at least not at the same time, I suppose. Mrs. Van Esch first. The floor is up to her. And then Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A healthy environment is vital, but unfortunately the environment in which we live today is anything but healthy. And that is partly because of our own environmental policy. This environmental policy consists mainly of a reactive policy: we find that there is a problem; we find out what is causing the problem. And that particular cause is often taken away. For example, we clean him away, we clean him away. But a reactive policy does not protect the environment. It only repairs it, so it creates health problems and environmental damage. Think of the scandals in recent months alone, where our environment is contaminated with chemicals. The dust that descends around Tata Steel, with prolonged exposure leading to negative effects on the IQ of children. I also mention the asphalt factory in Eindhoven, which emits up to twice as much carcinogenic benzene as is permitted, and the bizarrely high concentrations of pfas discharges in the Scheldt by the company 3M, whose effect on the health of residents in Zeeland is still unknown, but on which concerns are increasing. In addition, according to the WHO, air pollution is one of the most serious environmental threats to human health. Mrs Beckerman mentioned it as well: there are 12,000 deaths per year in the Netherlands and 12,000 deaths in the Netherlands. For this reason, in September, for the first time since 2005, the WHO fortunately strengthened the air quality directives, including for particulate matter. That's a good thing. But our own standards have not yet been tightened. There is also an opinion from the Health Council on the risks of ultra-fine dust. It makes recommendations to reduce emissions of ultra-fine dust. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will start working on the recommendations to monitor and model ultra-fine dust. In itself, that's nice. Only when are we really going to come to these concrete measures? When is something really being done about what needs to be done to reduce ultra-fine dust? The Health Council states in a report that reducing the combustion of wood by individuals and reducing flight movements will contribute to reducing the emissions of ultra-fine dust. I wonder if these two very concrete recommendations from the Health Council will be taken on board by this Secretary of State, especially since we see that the woodburning stoves have gone over the counter like hot sandwiches since gas prices have risen. The fact that environmental policy is reactive applies not only to chemicals and air pollution, but also to many other areas. For example, in the area of plastics, the focus of current policy is on recycling and deposit money. As long as consumers separate their waste properly and turn in all deposit boxes, we can use as much plastic as we want, but policies must be developed that focus on reducing the use of plastic, reuse or refill options. I wonder how the Secretary of State intends to take greater steps in this regard. In addition, producers try every time to find loopholes in the law when it comes to deposit money. For example, more use is now being made of beverage cartons without deposit money, packaging with a durable layer which can then not be recycled. That really has to stop now. Another example is the circular economy. We are also pursuing a reactive policy in this area. The starting point of a circular economy should not be "where can we get rid of this waste?', but is initially rethink and redesign. At the front, we need to take into account what we do when a product can no longer be used instead of looking for useful applications for waste streams, as is the case with granules or plastic construction waste, which is processed in forest paths. For example, a circular economy is choosing to use a maximum number of raw materials, so that at the end of the chain raw materials can be processed and reused more easily. I am curious to see what this Secretary of State's view is on this and whether we are going to make policies in this way. Mr. Chairman. Gradually, we find that more and more problems cannot be cleaned away. For example, we are confronted with microplastics, which can never be removed from the environment, and with "forever chemicals" such as pfas, which cannot be disposed of. So it's time for the cover. We no longer have to solve problems only when we are confronted with them, but we must actively prevent these problems from arising in the first instance. As far as we are concerned, this should focus on the healthy and safe living environment for humans and animals. Fortunately, my colleague Lammert van Raan will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u159	Ah, exciting, so this was actually kind of an announcement. Mr. Van Raan, the cliff hanger is parked. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to talk about asphalt and airports. As a Chamber, we embraced the broad concept of prosperity. The advantage of this is that you can see how these sectors behave and that they are not actually just behaving. Because when aviation was an ordinary sector, it could never continue to emit 11 megatons a year without penalty. That's 80 megatons till 2030. That's reckless behavior. Putting more asphalt in a climate crisis is not common either. That's reckless, too. Sawing and flattening nature; that is not just in a biodiversity crisis. Mr. Chairman. I have a challenge for the Minister. Can the Minister explain again for each of the following objections why more asphalt is good? Is it good for the climate crisis, good for the biodiversity crisis and good for health effects for residents around highways? Is it good for the missing need, when we are going to work much more at home? Moreover, the fleet cannot be replaced one-on-one by electric cars, so there will be much less electric cars. Can she explain that again? I'd like a response. That can also be done in writing, because I think she needs a lot of time and space to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to zoom in on nitrogen calculations on projects like MIRT. On the one hand, if she clings to the 5 mile limit for nitrogen calculations, she's stuck with the judge. On the other hand, if the border is extended to 25 kilometres around those projects, there is far too much nitrogen. So how is she gonna solve this gap? I do realize that this is a rather technical question, but it would be nice if she could come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the aviation sector, which is totally irresponsible in dealing with our planet, with the full support of this cabinet, but also of parties in this Chamber. For example, an aviation debate for next week has just been cancelled yesterday, and it is important that we discuss this. A few years ago, however, the growth of aviation seemed to be self-evident. Now more and more people see that shrinking is pure necessity. What that means, actually, still needs to get through a little bit. This is the realization that this means for the aviation sector that Lelystad Airport cannot open up within the limits of climate, living environment and safety and that the aviation sector is stealing tons of CO from other sectors. I'll just mention the peasants. When will farmers realise that they need to achieve much more nitrogen reduction, because the aviation sector is continuing to eat up that space? When do they wake up? Mr. Chairman. Finally, international aviation. He also lives in fantasy land. I'd like to explain. Next year is the triennial international aviation summit. The Netherlands has an influential position there. I would like to know from this Minister what the stakes there will be. Last week she asked what that commitment would be the disturbing answer that more action would be unnecessary. That is why I would like to give the Minister the following specific point. The 1944 Treaty still states that the goal of international aviation is growth. Again, that seemed a very good idea in 1944. But that's really not the case anymore in 2021. At any time, there are about 13,000 aircraft in the air. At any time. Every second, they spit out CO. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to make a firm effort to remove from the Chicago Convention this passage, which sets an automatic target for growth and which is really in the statutes of the international aviation organisation. I'd like a response to that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u162	I also speak on behalf of Caroline van der Plas of BBB, so I guess I'll need my time. Unfortunately, she couldn't be here today. Mr. Chairman. Infrastructure and water state are the toolbox for a country that was, is and is formed by human hands. The Netherlands has been drawn from the sea, swamps and unexplored plains with perseverance. Over the centuries, our country has been made passable with a sophisticated network of infrastructure. We protect it with ever dynamic water state. That is the country that has formed generations for us. We pass that on to generations after us. Accessibility and security are indispensable for life, living and working in this delta on the large rivers. In dealing with the budget, JA21 today underlines the importance of continuing investment in infrastructure and water supply and maintenance. This is a hard and secure foundation for other policies. Today we are looking forward to the 2022 budget. That's why I want to take you to the year 1421. This month it is 600 years since the Sint-Elizabethslood took place. A raging storm caused the dikes to collapse. One of the worst floods in our patriotic history was the result. 2,000 people died, dozens of villages drowned and the Biesbosch arose. The dramatically changed infrastructure undermined the economic and political position of the powerful city of Dordrecht. Why am I referring to this flood? I do that because we realize that the tide itself wasn't that high. The real problem was the faulty quays. Because of the Hoekse and Cod Twisten the dike maintenance was neglected. We are hard learners, because 600 years later the quays crumble in Amsterdam because woke communication is more interesting than working on the infrastructure. Lack of historical awareness can also be seen at the Planning Office for the Environment. Some conversations with home workers and some data are sufficient for the PBL to lower investments in accessibility. But JA21 speaks out clearly for investing in mobility and accessibility. I'll wait for the interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u163	That's very good of you, Mrs. Bouchallichh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u164	I would like to make a point about the PBL and the way in which it is discussed. To what extent does Mrs Pouw-Verweij rely on scientific research and all kinds of knowledge institutes on which we base our choices here? To what extent does she include them in the considerations we make here in the interests of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u165	I would like to thank my colleague for the interruption. I can be very clear about this: we consider scientific support of policy to be extremely important. That is why I am also a member of a committee that held a meeting yesterday on the combination of science and politics. I myself have a background as a medical scientist and I think it is extremely important that we base our policies on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you for agreeing, because I am very concerned about undermining all kinds of knowledge institutes. And the way in which a number of conversations with homeworkers have just been talked about was quite unkind. So that's what I wanted to help out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u167	I don't want to question the PBL's expertise. However, I do not agree with the proposed political consequences, so I would like to take a position against them. If the tone in that is a little too loud, I think that's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u168	First of all, I would like to point out that I do not doubt the love of science that Mrs. Pouw has as a doctor. I am not concerned about that, but I am concerned about her comment on the PBL. That says that with a little bit of tinkering with the travellers who travel in rush hour, we can make so much difference in terms of traffic jams. So my appeal to JA21 is to look at that nuancedly, because there are solutions that cost much less money or that actually cost nothing at all. I think that way without spending a lot of money you can influence the traffic jams that are there now. So maybe a little less car rhetoric and a little more nuanced looking at the PBL would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u169	If my party is for something, then it's nuanced to look at problems, so I take that call wholeheartedly. I do not want to say that we want to throw all the advice overboard immediately. I just want to make it clear that I am in favour of accessibility. As far as we are concerned, the proposals contained in the OJ are not in line with them. So that's what I wanted to determine my position in. But nuance is always important, so I agree. Mr. Chairman. Shifting into unwavering plans and estimates is virtually untapped work. JA21 calls on the negotiators to at least consider the following. The implementation agenda of the National Future Image Bike should stimulate cycling. The government wants to remove bottlenecks in the existing bicycle infrastructure. A good thing as long as safety doesn't become a baby. JA21 asked questions about the safety of bicycle paths in connection with the new national testing framework for light electric vehicles this summer. My group is concerned about whether sufficient account is being taken of the increasing traffic on bicycle paths. Can the Minister promise that the implementation agenda takes explicit account of the fact that there are more and more uneven vehicles on the bike paths? If this does not happen, we implicitly accept that extending the cycle paths also leads to an increase in the number of accidents. The extension of bicycle paths is hampered by the high threshold for co-financing within the MIRT. Is it possible to include a separate threshold for bike paths in the MIRT? Living and accessibility in the Randstad are inextricably linked to living and accessibility of the Randstad. In that perspective, the construction of the Lelyline and the Lower Saxony Line have great significance. Does the Minister agree with JA21 that the realisation of the Lelyline and the Lower Saxony line is an ambition that should undoubtedly be included in a subsequent coalition agreement? Finally, Mr President, the toll-free operation of the Westerschelde tunnel. In a recent progress letter to the Court, the lengthy investigations and reservations over each other are spoiled. Why don't you stop with the tunnel vision? Make that tunnel toll-free, and do it now. Because that's the light at the end of the tunnel Zeeland is waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u170	You didn't have more metaphor in terms of tunnels?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u171	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u172	It can be done in second term, if you find a few more. Thank you for mentioning the Corner and Cod Twist. We always appreciate that. We are not going to have lunch without listening to Mr Stoffer, who is closing the day, at least the closing of the first term. He represents the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr President, thank you. Let that closure also be on behalf of the Christian Union, also on behalf of Mr Grinwis. Mr. Chairman. Whoever builds a house and is wise, provides a good foundation. Anyone who wants to develop must make sure that the basis is in order. This also applies very clearly to our road and rail networks. And no, our bridges aren't about to collapse. They're safe. But that sudden speed limitation on the A29 at the Haringvliet Bridge and all the faults at bridges and locks in recent years are really signs on the wall. Our infrastructure really needs a big maintenance. In this respect, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his letter last Friday. This underlines once again the great task and the extent of it. The deficit could reach between EUR 1.5 and 2 billion per year in the coming years. That means either investing heavily... No, I mean, big interest. Of course, I would like to invest, but it means either intern on maintenance and renovation, with a high chance of even more road closures, failures or safety problems, or no more room for new projects, or money. Let me be very clear: the SGP wants the latter. 'Cause there's gotta be a new bridge at Rhenen's. The N50 needs to be even safer. The A28 needs to be even wider. The trail from Zwolle to Münster still has to be built. And we also have all those projects for which there is already money, but which I do not think we should push away, like the project we mentioned earlier: the prison at Amelisweerd, the A27. But also at node Hoevelaken and at Barneveld something has to happen. All that kind of stuff is badly needed to keep our country running, to keep the economy on steam. Because that is what we need in the end to be able to continue to pay for all those things that are important for our well-being. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the cabinet must work on the multiannual conservation infrastructure, with a corresponding budget. My question to the rulers is: are they going to ensure that long-term agreements are made with Rijkswaterstaat and ProRail with a view of for example eight years? And are they going to speed things up? I think acceleration is necessary, but I would like to hear from you that the data is really being put in order? Because last Friday's letter also shows that there is still a battle to be struck. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. The basis on order also means that sufficient human strength is needed, at ProRail, at Rijkswaterstaat, in the market. I would also like a reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet pays extra money for electric cars. It is very important that electric cars, also by stimulating the second-hand market, become available to ordinary people and women. The annual instalments in the grant schemes are slowing things down. My question to the cabinet is: why do you not choose to simply remove those annual instalments? It is also advantageous to bring the purchase of electric cars forward as far as possible from European objectives, so that the CO profit can be paid in earlier. The figures do show that where the number of electric cars increased by 75,000 last year, the total fleet grew by 110,000. In short, we are far from there. This also underlines the continued need for the sustainability of the petrol and diesel car fleet, as their consumption and weight has increased in recent years rather than decreased. My question is: can we reverse this development? Mr. Chairman. The SGP wants the subsidy scheme for LNG trucks to be extended. The use of LNG, and in particular the use of locally produced biogas, can make an important contribution to the sustainability of road transport. The electrification of heavy transport is difficult and overloads the overcrowded electricity grid. The Climate Agreement therefore also uses 7 petajoule biogas. Mixing obligations or not, the investment in LNG trucks is withdrawn by the proposal to remove the excise duty refund by the high rise in gas prices. And so biogas in road transport doesn't get a chance. The truck tax with potentially lower rates for sustainable trucks is still awaited. That is why I have tabled an amendment to extend the subsidy scheme for LNG trucks, in particular the use of biogas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u174	That is the amendment to item No. 16, I'll add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u175	That's right! Thank you. Through a cash drawer, the money for making dangerous N-roads, among others, has been brought forward. That's very good, but what's the perspective for the period after that? Because we need to work not only on more sustainable traffic, but also, above all, on safer traffic. I heard the CDA very clearly about this earlier. The fewer traffic victims, the less pressure on the scarce hospital capacity. Mr. Chairman. Mobility policy is also more than large investments in sounding projects with a lot of travel time benefits. It is also a question of road safety. Here it comes again: regional accessibility and also small investments in mobility hubs and the spread of commuting. Obstacles to this in the current MIRT rules are the thresholds for co-financing the Empire with MIRT projects, for the Randstad 112 million euros and for the rest of the Netherlands 225 million euros. Those MIRT rules would be reviewed. My specific question is: where is this proposal? And is that proposal also aligning the thresholds mentioned with those I mentioned, which are much smaller than the large amounts I mentioned earlier? Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Chamber adopted two motions calling on the government to support the maritime recovery plan and to consider what is possible to bring forward investments in the fleet replacement programme of the Rijksrederij, while investing in innovation and sustainability. I understand that little progress has been made and that the maritime industry is on the sidelines. My question is: is the innovative part of the fleet replacement programme also being called upon by the Growth Fund and will the Minister speed up and include industry in the process? The millions for sustainable transport are coming to our fore, but I do miss the approach of shifting road to water transport. My question to the rulers is: are you going to ensure that modal shift programmes are launched throughout the Netherlands? And how do they ensure that European subsidies come within reach of our inland waterway fleet? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the circular economy, because where emission reduction budgets are blowing up, is threatening to reduce our raw materials use, or the Circular Economy Implementation Programme. There is ambition, but the action is missing. Tax incentives are needed to make recycling cheaper than the use of raw materials. Lease of devices and companies that market products as a service must be facilitated. Reclaimed raw materials must be recognised more quickly as raw materials rather than waste, and administrative agreements on circular procurement are needed, because that simply isn't working out well yet. In short, how is the cabinet going to turn ambition into concrete actions here too? The SGP has also made a point of the import tax on foreign waste more often. As far as Europe is concerned, this measure does not generate any CO profits, on the contrary, because more will be paid in abroad. The discussion with the sector on an alternative is not progressing. My specific question to the cabinet is: when do you turn the button? Mr. Chairman. A promise to Mr Grinwis, on the very last point. Where's the time when if you had something broken, you'd just fix it? My grandfather, one of the first bicycle makers in the country, always did. He had all these dynamos, old bike bells and all that lying down, and he fixed everything. Those days, that's what I'm talking about. Because not only is throwing away and buying new often cheaper, but it is also complicated. Replace your battery in your iPhone? Why don't you go ahead and stand on it? That's a real punk. And think of all those products with glued connections instead of screwed; just not to repair anymore. As far as our political groups are concerned, it is time for a right to repair. What can we actually do as a government? Better design requirements in the EU, setting up a national expert team to assess new products for repairability, and better informing consumers about the repairability of products in French, for example. Mr President, I look forward to the response of the Secretary of State to these wonderful proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you. A question from Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought that I would imitate Mr Stoffer, who also asked me questions at the end of my speech. He was just asking Mrs Hagen about the A27: if he couldn't get inside that bin, do you think it should be that broadening? I should like to put the same question to Mr Stoffer, but the other way around. The studies that indicate that it can actually be done within that bin are flying around our ears these days. Mr Stoffer now receives all the studies that indicate and prove that it could be done within that bin. Then I wonder if you're just in favour of doing it inside that bin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u178	I'm always in favour of good proposals. Now there are a lot of hooks and eyes on the solution within the box, in terms of road safety and so on. I also know that all these things have been considered in the past. I would like to tell you: when this project ever started, I worked at Rijkswaterstaat Utrecht, so I was about all in the game about this. It's been looked at carefully. If I look at that with my civil engineer heart and if you want to put that right and future-proof in society, then I don't believe in solutions in prison. If they were there, I'd be good for it, but they're not there. Let me also say right away about the reduction in speed: you can only get 100. Optimal is 90 kilometers per hour. Usually we don't make it there when it's a little more crowded, so I don't see a lot of solutions in that. As far as I am concerned, it is very clear: simply implement the route decision. Start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u179	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u180	One final comment. I would advise Mr Stoffer to simply bring along the most recent reports and surveys and all the new figures. I haven't heard the argument why we couldn't drive 80 in that place. I would really like to give the following tip, of course, to the ministry where Mr Stoffer worked. There's no standing still. The tests are here. The possibilities are just inside that bin, so let's take a serious look at that together. I think Mr Stoffer would like that very much, so I am very glad that this is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u181	I want to look at everything. If Mrs. Van Esch takes care of that stuffed cake, we'll talk about it again. I'm guessing I didn't miss anything after all. I think I'm gonna stick to starting tomorrow, Minister. That's my last... Not a question, but a wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u182	Very good. So much for the Chamber's term. Some dots have been mentioned. The rulers must be able to do something with that. I wish them a lot of wisdom in the next 24-plus hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u183	Tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. we will listen to the answers of the rulers. I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m.
