ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is a two-minute debate on Telecommunications. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA. Welcome, of course, to the Secretary of State, who I see bend over a little despondently. You have the floor, Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just now I read at NU.nl that it is 140 years since the first telephone connection was established today, so it is a nice day to submit this motion. The first motion concerns mobile accessibility and 112. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still many places in the Netherlands where mobile accessibility is insufficient, the so-called "white areas";]] [[noting that in parts of Cranendonck, Baarle-Nassau, Gemert-Bakel, Ekehaar, Hasselt, Kamperzeedijk, Beekdaelen, Bergen, Zwolle, Babberich, Haarlo, IJzevoorde, Mariënvelde, Opijnen, Vorstenbosch/Nistelrode, Loosbroek, Kats, Kamperland, Wissenkerke, Geijsteren, Termunten, Termunterzijl, Petten and Vilsteren the mobile accessibility is so poor that alarm number 112 cannot be called;]] [[Whereas not being able to call 112 is a high potential risk to the safety of residents;]] [[Whereas a great deal of research has already been done into the causes of not being able to call 112;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward before 1 January 2022 with proposals to unlock the "white areas" in the Netherlands so that the lower limit of mobile accessibility can be met, i.e. 112 calls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-535]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u3	The second one has to do with the Internet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that fast internet can increasingly be seen as a basic need in society;]] [[noting that there are around 20,000 addresses in the Netherlands for which it is still uncertain whether they will have fast internet access (at least 100 megabits per second) at the end of 2023, such as via fiberglass;]] [[noting that the construction of high-speed internet for these addresses in the off-site area often entails very high costs;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the costs of building high-speed internet at these addresses;]] [[calls on the government to examine the technological alternatives available to ensure that all households in the Netherlands have fast internet access, and to inform the House of Representatives before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-536]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it in the committee debate: who did not get through the corona crisis with video calls, chatting and sending movies? Just because we have good and reliable reach in the Netherlands, we could, although remotely, still work from home and call Grandma. Mr. Chairman. Two points. During the committee debate we discussed the importance of a quick roll-out of 5G and the possibility of spread payment for the sector. That is the wish of my group in particular. A multi-annual multi-annual payment can ensure that the sector can make nice economic investments as soon as possible and we can make use of all the comforts of 5G throughout the Netherlands. As has already been said, we are waiting for the consultation round and we would like to be able to say something about it afterwards. My colleague from D66 will tell us more about this later. Mr. Chairman. Then radio. A seven-fold increase in licensing costs is, of course, significant, whereas this emergency extension was precisely intended to support the sector for the loss of income caused by the corona crisis. The report on which this increase is based by a factor of seven has not yet been shared with us. I'm very sorry about that. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to share the underlying report with us and the sector as soon as possible. Finally, Mr. Chairman. My group is eagerly looking forward to the reports and proposals on addressing smishing, spoofing and other types of scams. Over the last few days, the Netherlands has been plagued by attempts at scam by texting links containing alleged packages that need to be delivered. This has to be technically shut down, right? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u5	Thank you. Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I agree with Mr Van Dijk and it is 140 years since the first telephone call was made in the Netherlands. And, as Mr Rajkowski said, we haven't had a call out in 140 years. That taught us the corona year again. Mr Rajkowski also gave the argument for the motion I am about to table. We have had a debate on the emergency extension, and we are concerned about whether this compensation is justified, both for the government and for the parties that are entering into the emergency extension. That's why my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emergency extension of radio licences is a crisis measure for a sector with a high need for funding due to the impact of the corona crisis and the shrinkage of the market;]] [[Whereas the sector intends to pay compensation for the emergency extension, but must be proportionate;]] [[calls on the Government, in good consultation with VCR and NLCR, taking into account the economic damage and shrinkage of the market and on the basis of transparent principles, to achieve proportionate and therefore socially responsible remuneration, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-537]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second motion. It's about the BES Islands. It goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that poverty on the BES is a major problem and that people are unable to meet their necessary living needs, including telephone and internet, and that the cost of fixed internet is also substantially higher than in Europe;]] [[Whereas, in view of the significant socio-economic impact of covid, it was decided last year with an emergency measure to temporarily subsidise the telecommunications tariffs on the BES until 1 January 2022, after extension, thereby making the internet more accessible to the lower income groups;]] [[Whereas ACM research shows that, given the inevitably relatively high costs for fixed internet, especially in the Upper Wind Islands, due to geography and topology, structural subsidies for end-users are necessary;]] [[points out that the current measures aimed at reducing the cost of living on the BES, including telecommunications costs, should be pursued in a structural manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Van Ginneken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-538]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u8	Thank you, Mr President. We often talk about the subject of telecoms. I am very pleased with that, because it is important to have good facilities to be connected and communicate with each other. I therefore welcome the commitment made by the Secretary of State during the committee debate to provide us with a timeline for the use of Huawei equipment in mobile infrastructure, among other things. Mr. Chairman. That's not what I want to talk about right now. Now I want to talk about the auction model for 5G. We are concerned, and I think many people in this Chamber and in the sector, about the transparency of the proposed auction model, which is now being consulted on the Internet. We hope that a balance can be struck between optimum revenue for the public authorities and balanced and dynamic market forces for the providers. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court has requested that no irreversible steps be taken with regard to telecommunications;]] [[whereas a quick and safe roll-out of 5G is desirable, but there is still a discussion on the degree of transparency during the auction of the 3.5GHz band;]] [[invites the Government to refer the auction scheme to the Lower House for consultation before the regulation is adopted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Grinwis and Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-539]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u10	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Van Ginneken, who has given me a nice introduction. I also wanted to talk about the auction and the lack of transparency. I have made a motion on this which goes a step further, I admit, but is relevant, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, from the point of view of economic recovery after corona, it is very important that telecom companies continue to be able to invest heavily in their networks, which play a central role in the digital economy;]] [[Whereas the design for the auctioning of the 3.5GHz band should also take this into account, and should be less focused on creating even more market forces or auction revenues;]] [[Whereas the current concept auction model does not provide for transparency on the overall demand per bidding round, which prevents auction participants from adapting their strategy to market demand, which could lead to higher bids not to run the risk of falling out;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the draft auction model and to make the total demand per bidding round visible to the participants in the auction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-540]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u12	I would like to explain this further. I've got a minute. Look, in the past, some auctions do offer transparency. Because of this specific frequency you do not automatically have a national coverage. It is therefore entirely doubtful whether there will be any new bidders at all. At the same time, the requirements are so low that it can attract speculators who buy purely a frequency to resell them later. These are all risks which, I believe, need not be dealt with. The most efficient distribution can be achieved through transparency. The most important thing, especially after this time of corona, is that we do not create additional obstacles that are at the expense of investment. We need new economic activity. Digitisation is the crux for new earning models. It is also the focus of the European Agenda on innovation. I therefore call on the Cabinet to embrace transparency on this point. I also hope for support from other groups in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you. Finally, Mr Graus of the PVV has the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to give my support to Mr Van der Lee, because I asked more or less the same question during the committee debate. Of course, I will also support his motion. Of course, it would be crazy if I didn't. Again, if you hadn't filed the motion, I might have had to file it. I'm grateful you did it. I thank the Secretary of State for the commitments. After all, I have taken two promises. That also saves motions. I am always happy and grateful for this, including in the context of administrative burden relief, of which we are all very much in favour. Thank you for the commitment that the Secretary of State will table with the directors of the radio stations. It also goes into contact with the management of the telecommunications companies. That's what it takes. I assume that several colleagues will support it if I ask for an evaluation and feedback towards the Chamber. In response to what the Secretary of State is asking outside the microphone, I was referring to your commitments to table with the directors of the radio stations and the telecommunications companies. Can we get a feedback on that? That's my question. I would also like to mention the following. During the committee debate I spoke about Germany. We are always talking about the European Union here. Of course, I will allow us to return to the European Community, which was better. We are always talking about the European Union here and there are a lot of fans here, but it turns out that there is a completely uneven playing field. You see that in aviation, you see it in excise duty, you see it in everything. There's always an uneven playing field. In Germany, they've done much better. The same applies to Belgium. There the radio frequencies have been extended, for a fee of €0. Then I think: long live the European Union. 'Cause that's where it all goes. In Germany, they can do better. And we're the best boy in the class again. This is where the companies are getting killed again. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. I guess I'm gonna have to suspend for a few minutes for the answer, huh? Yes. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u16	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 535, from Inge van Dijk and Rajkowski, I must advise against. I'd like to tell you why. The accessibility of 112 is, of course, of the utmost importance; let me be clear about that. But that is different from what I know that mobile accessibility in parts of all the municipalities listed here is so bad that the emergency number 112 cannot be called in general. Technically, this is how it works: there is an appointment between providers, which means that the connection of the other provider automatically takes over when you call your provider 112 and your provider is out, just to put it in a modern way. In addition, previous investigations carried out by TNO and AT in 2014 showed that the reachability of 112 was already well above 98% at that time. Then I leave out the reachability of 112 via the landline telephone networks. Due to technological progress, mobile accessibility of 112 is likely to have improved since then. Outdoor coverage is even better because of the cover I made last year for the licences auctioned with the multi-band auction. As of 1 July, 112 must also be available via Wi-Fi from all providers. This also improves the accessibility of 112. That is important; we all know that here. I therefore advise against this motion. But I am willing, when municipalities report to me to say that things are not going well in their congregation, to see how that can be done with AT. It is good to stress here once again that there may also be no reach due to physical phenomena, for example trees that stand in the way or bad weather conditions. This is also physical. Of course, we all want a hundred percent guarantee, but that is unfortunately not possible in general. Unfortunately, it can't be done here either. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 536. I can be much shorter on that: I give it a Chamber of Judgement. Mrs Rajkowski asked me a question about making the SEO report available to the House of Representatives. I think it's okay to clear up a misunderstanding first. The emergency extension, which we eventually came to after the debate with your Chamber, is not intended to compensate for loss of income due to corona. It is intended to enable funding. As I promised you, the renewal prices and their calculation will be shared with the rural sector and a careful legal procedure will be followed before I finally fix those amounts. I think it is important, too, that I should like to say to Mr Graus O'Brien that the parties concerned should be given the opportunity to respond to the draft SEO report before I make that public. So I'm sending that to the sector as soon as possible. Of course, I am willing to share the final report with your Chamber as well. Then I have a question from the VVD Group about all those nasty scams, as is called at my home, whereby people are being taken away from money. That happens incredibly smart. Here too it is good to say: if you get a text message from which you think "what is this weird" then do not click through, because then you will finally open the gates to all kinds of unsavory types. And the latter is put mildly. Together with JenV I aim to send the progress letter on spoofing and..what is the name of the other one, I don't come up with the word, text and ishing.. smishing for the summer recess to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion in part No. 537 Van Grinwis c.s. requesting a proportionate fee for the renewal of radio licences. I assume that the words 'in good consultation' with the sector can be understood in accordance with what I have just said to Mrs Rajkowski. As I said in the committee debate, this is not a matter of hand-picking. On the basis of market analysis and on the basis of the valuation of licences and their economic value, I have to come to an extension price. It must be market-oriented. In the end, I am also being watched by the European Commission, because if I do not, there may be state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u18	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u19	So with that reading, I can leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u20	We also had this debate in committee and the Secretary of State said this at the time. It is not for nothing that we table this motion and have chosen the words "in good collusion." That's really different from telling you what's going on with a good mood. Oh, that's really good. That's really good. That's really good. I therefore believe that these words will not be interpreted in their own way, but that agreements will really be reached in good consultation with VCR and NLCR. That's something other than a handshake. So it goes a little further than what the Secretary of State said in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u21	It's not like I'm sending the report and saying, here's the draft report, and next week I'm gonna hit it. That is a report which is sent to the interested parties to hear from them whether what is in that report is true in their view, and there will be reactions depending on it. But it is not that what they report to me is taken over by me. This is simply a matter of interest, and it is also a question of financial consequences, and I am the one who has to ensure that the value of the provision is also expressed in the price that is ultimately imposed, precisely for the reasons I have just indicated. So, with that reading, I will say once again: 'I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u22	Yes. And I get the impression that the author is somewhat hesitant about this. Fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u23	Yes. That motion in part No. 538 is about the subsidy we gave to the BES islands in the corona time for telecom costs. Mr Grinwis and Mrs Van Ginneken asked for it to be continued on a structural basis. That makes this an uncovered motion, and I must therefore advise against that motion. And 16 June there is another committee debate on the situation in the BES islands, and at the moment there is a formation where this claim can possibly be put on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u24	Mr. Grinwis, he's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u25	Yeah, and I think that's a special thing when it comes to speaking out. That is what we have exchanged in the debate, and I have also announced it. Okay, I'll take that into account by not making a request to the government, but submitting a ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u26	Exactly. You should have pointed that out to the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State does not really have to give an opinion on that. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u27	Yeah, that's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u28	That wasn't necessary. And it wasn't sharp from me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u29	Well, I guess I've said that again. But, Mr President, I share your sorrow, because I could of course also have seen that it says'spoken'. Perhaps I would have preferred to make a comment about its coverage, but then it would have been your role to tap my fingers again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u30	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u31	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 539 asks the government to refer the auction scheme to the Lower House for consultation after consultation. Something special's going on here, though. Under the Telecom Act, your Chamber finally mandated me to set up an auction scheme. And this is the auction scheme for the 3.5-band. So that's a jurisdiction given to me by the Chamber. The draft auction scheme is currently being consulted. The intention is, but it is already possible, that all kinds of reactions should be given. I'm gonna keep that under review eventually, and then at some point, I'm gonna set up the auction scheme. And there's a little time pressure on this too, because the Chamber wants the 3.5-band to be used quickly at the same time. The European Commission is also keeping me on top of that. The plan is now that the auction will actually take place in spring 2022, so that the 3.5-band can be put into service on 1 September 2022. Then you would say 'we still have plenty of time', but then you will have a summer holiday before the summer, at least that's my schedule, or briefly in the summer, because I think that we all need a summer holiday and deserve to be able to set up the auction scheme. So if your Chamber has an opinion on the draft auction scheme, I would like to hear it, but I would nevertheless like to ask the Chamber to do so in the coming weeks, so that I can also take the opinion of the Chamber into account in finalising the auction scheme. But again, your Chamber has given it to me, that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u32	The Secretary of State is right that the Chamber has given it the power to adopt the regulation, but we also have the power to ask the Secretary of State to take us with us before the regulation is adopted and implemented, so that we can also consider the proceeds of the internet consultation. And that is the request I am making. So I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u33	Yes, of course, that is up to Mrs Van Ginneken, but I will tell you the following. I think the consultation is still going on for four weeks, so it's July. Then I'm gonna have to process it. The way I'm telling you right now, I'm already in the summer. Then I'm going to establish it. If the Chamber wants to debate with me and still want to stick to the summer recess, there will have to be a debate on it at the beginning of September. Then I run out of time, and with that also the fast introduction of this 3.5-band. So, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u34	You're dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u35	I dissuade this motion, but I also understand that the Chamber wants to talk about it. Of course, that can still be done for the next five or six weeks, I say out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u36	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u37	I have every respect and understanding for the fact that the Secretary of State feels the urgency. Perhaps we can also do so in writing. It doesn't necessarily have to be in a debate. Then we could have it neatly by this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u38	Well, that's up to us, then, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u39	That's up to the Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u40	But as far as this motion goes, you're not going to recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u42	Mr. Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u43	I have a question about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u44	You also have your own motion on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u45	The advantage of this motion, I believe, is that it solves the problem of time pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u46	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u47	Because if the Secretary of State makes a step towards greater transparency on the motion I tabled, we as a Chamber will no longer have to talk about it before the summer. Then that transparency will simply be regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u48	Let us first listen to what the Secretary of State has to say. Maybe something good will come of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u49	I'm confident she's gonna embrace it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u50	The Secretary of State, on the motion in part No. 540.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u51	The tricky thing about that is that I have to dissuade it. Let me explain to you why. The motion finds that the auction is designed to maximize auction revenue and that the current draft model does not provide for transparency on total demand per bidding round. The motion calls for the total demand per bidding round to be made visible. But yield maximization is not a goal of this auction. During the auction, lots offer the amount of spectrum they wish to acquire. If there is more demand than supply, the price increases. Participants can then adjust their demand to that. There is no question of overbiding. When the question is three or less lots, this will be published, so that participants know when the auction will almost come to an end. It's not completely closed anymore either. We have already had this discussion in the committee debate. The objective is for the auction to lead to an efficient distribution of spectrum, offering realistic opportunities to all participants and leading to a realistic auction, not a maximum auction yield. It is precisely in order to meet the objective of realistic opportunities for all participants that it is necessary to design the model in such a way that all participants have the same chances of acquiring spectrum. A transparent auction model damages the auction targets, especially the fair opportunities for potential new entrants. The experts who have looked into this state of affairs say that newcomers are unlikely if the bidding information per round could show that they are participating. This could lead to strategic bidding behaviour. These parties have a common interest in restricting competition in the market. This, as we all know, can even lead to barriers to innovation in the market. So, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u52	You're dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u53	I advise against this motion. Who would ultimately benefit from Mr Van der Lee's proposal? In my opinion, these are mainly the existing providers. It may eventually also be negative for a reasonable return from this auction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u54	A few things. I am not talking in the motion at all about profit maximization or yield maximization. I am just saying that it should be less focused on creating even more market forces or auction revenues. The goal must be to roll out 5G. The low frequencies have already been auctioned. So I find this whole discussion about these newcomers rather abstract. There are also auction experts who say that a little more transparency offers a much more efficient distribution of the frequency available in total. So the social goals, the political goals will be better regulated if we provide this transparency. I do not understand why this transparency is not provided for game theory reasons about market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u55	In the word'market forces', I read that yield maximization: market forces lead to the highest price and that is good for the State. That is not at all the aim of the auction scheme that is now going into consultation; that is a reasonable return. But you should also not go too far and allow the existing providers to be directing in the next step in such an auction. That's what you do to my taste when you make the total demand visible per bidding round. I don't see the importance of that. I know a lot of experts have opinions on this, but it makes quite a difference in which market you do an auction, what existing providers you have and what your goals are. Mr Graus talked about the Germans: why don't we do it that way? The Dutch auction design is most comparable to the UK 3.5 auctions of 2018 and 2021, not to the auction design applied in Germany. During the auction, the British provided only limited information about the demand over. The interview was only published below a certain level. Although a comparison between auctioning is simply not possible, a comparison with the United Kingdom is therefore fairer and better in this case. Finally. We also had this discussion when we were talking about the multi-band auctions. At that time, for example, I also discussed with representatives of GroenLinks how to prevent someone from buying a frequency, but not using it. That's what we had a commissioning obligation for back then. So perhaps it would be a good idea to have the written consultation that Mrs van Ginneken mentioned, in order to share this quite technically with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u56	I have the impression that we are going to do so, but I would like to give Mr Van der Lee a brief opportunity to respond to the dissuade motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u57	Since we're gonna do it in writing, I'll be brief. To be honest, I do not think the argument is very valid. Just by providing a little more transparency, you achieve optimal results. Now you are increasing the risk that parties will bid along who do not intend to develop serious capacity in the Netherlands, but may only want to resell, purely to earn money. That does not seem to me to be in the Dutch interest at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u58	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u59	But this is exactly one of those subjects we need to talk about: how about that, how does that work; can you, can you prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u60	But about the motions on pieces Nos. 539 and 540, which deal with the same subject, is the judgment: dissuade. I would like to take a quick look at Mr Graus, who has asked a question which has apparently not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u61	Here's what I'm talking about. I also had a commitment during a committee debate that the Secretary of State would deal with the management of telecom companies and radio stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u62	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u63	We thought we had just understood that she wanted to turn that a little bit into the legal consultation that is to take place, but that is of course not the intention. I really asked the Secretary of State to table with the directors of radio stations and telecom companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u64	Of course I cannot do everything on my own, but from EZK there are regular conversations with all kinds of companies in the Netherlands. The same applies to these companies. Again, it's not like I can only take a little pound off here or add a pound. This is really a process that has to be done in a careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u65	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u66	It is quite clear in the debates of the committee. I have said that I do not want officials to talk. I want the Secretary of State to do it himself. That's what she said: that's what I'm gonna do. I just thought I'd heard that's already been done, but I don't think that's fair. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u67	Then perhaps we should read the report of the consultation first, because otherwise we do not know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u68	I have a bit of a problem with it. It is also happening more and more often that officials are acting like they are organizing something on their own. Officials act and speak on my behalf. I'm from innovation, but I haven't been able to clone me yet. So I only have one body.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u69	I have the impression that Mr Graus and the Secretary of State are not talking about the same thing. So I suggest that you read back the report of the debate that preceded this and that you may come back to it in the written consultation that is still going to take place. 'Cause we can't fix this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u70	I did the same thing to our Deputy Prime Minister the other day when it was about the NVWA. And then we didn't get out about the civil service, and then she sat down at the table. I quoted the example of NVWA, and I said that Mrs Schouten did so at the time. I specifically asked the Secretary of State to sit down and she said: I am going to do that. So I really want the Acts to be included, because now my commitment is actually being undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u71	This two-minute debate is not yet complete because a written discussion has been announced. So I would advise you to read the report and then take your questions with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u72	I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u73	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-01-tweedekamer-25.u74	The motions tabled in this two-minute debate will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend for a few moments, and then we will start a fresh and fruity debate, which is about shopping times.
