ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u1	We resume the debate on bringing ISIS women and their children back to the Netherlands. I would like to give the floor to the speaker from the CDA, Mrs Kuik. She's got four minutes like everybody else. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. This debate is about justice, about trial and security. There is talk of IS women leaving the Netherlands. I must say that there is a bit of pity around those ISIS women. They do have a lawyer. They don't have the dead, so you won't hear them. Texts such as "it is very regrettable that someone who has so early reported to the Dutch authorities had to wait so long for this" really shot me in the wrong throat. It's like the upside-down world. This is about our security and the security of our people, not about the convenience of a terrorist who despises this free country. It feels unfair. It's the story of the victims and the survivors that we need to hear here. It's the women who thought ISIS was too old to sell as sex slaves who were executed massively and lying in mass graves. In one blow, the inhabitants of a village like Kocho lost all men, older men and older women. Young women and children from the village were kidnapped by IS and sold at slave markets. Decent funerals haven't been there yet. Justice is far away. I also get signals that the victims say: the executioners are being picked up and the victims are in a hopeless situation. So here too the question: how are the victims supported? I have seen that Parliament in Belgium has expressed its opinion and acknowledged that genocide has been committed on the Jezidis by IS. I would say that we should do the same here in the Netherlands, in this Dutch Parliament. Mr. Chairman. War and terrorism are often seen as a matter of men, but we should not be naive. These women have been involved in violent movements for a long time. This specific returned IS-wife seems to have indicated in 2017 that she did not regret leaving the Netherlands to join IS and that she has learned a lot. With emancipation and improved opportunities for women, their role in terrorist organisations is increasing. Does the Cabinet see this? Nothing shows that they are not or less dangerous, so let's not treat them differently. Mr. Chairman. We ask the Minister to be ready about the conditions. The cabinet states that there was a special circumstance to get this IS woman. We agree that impunity should be avoided. I do not hear the cabinet talking about a regular policy, but about a'special circumstance'. Perhaps to confirm, for us, the condition is that the safety of our people, our soldiers, who must go into the area to catch these terrorists, must be paramount. Over the last few weeks, we have been talking about the unsafe situation in Syria in this house and we have said that we cannot just send refugees back. A right-hand section of the Chamber thought it was possible. A left side said: that is not possible, because it is unsafe. It's unsafe. Soon the Americans will be leaving this area as well. What does that say about future security, I ask the Minister? The CDA wants to prevent impunity for IS women and IS men and sees international trial as the best solution: accountability in the region to the victims. Mr Van Helvert previously tabled a motion asking the government to actively commit itself to the UN Security Council to come forward with proposals. We have seen that a veto has been tabled at the UN, but the UN is not necessarily needed. Look what we can do. The NCTV indicates that options are now being explored for a tribunal based in Iraq that complies with international standards. Also legal scholar Ellian today indicates that agreements can be made with the Syrian Kurds and EU countries in the region. The question you can ask here is also asked in the newspaper and I repeat it here is whether it is not especially Erdogan who is obstructing the start of these tribunals. It sounds like an acceptable solution. Would the Minister be willing to make a full bet on this? (NL) Mr President, last remark: the taking away of Dutch nationality. Why can't we get these women to be regarded as employed by a foreign military force, so that we can deprive them of their nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. A question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u4	In the latter case, why can't we? I would ask Mrs Kuik of the CDA to do so. Why don't you take care of that? Call on the cabinet today to deprive all these extravagants of their nationality. I'd like to see your motion. Are you going to file it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u5	This is, of course, not the first debate we have on this issue. We have raised this point in a series of debates. We want to take away Dutch citizenship from people who have two nationalities. We can see that there are still bumps, because I am also dealing with a judiciary and legislation. If there are any bottlenecks, we want to know what is going on, because we would like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u6	If Mrs Kuik instructs the cabinet to do so, she does not have to be afraid of the judiciary. The judiciary is based on the current situation. If Mrs Kuik thinks that the current situation is not satisfactory, I think that it is satisfactory, then she can call on the cabinet today to settle it and ensure that no more repatriations are made, no more terrorists are returned to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u7	It is not for nothing that we have tabled a bill to make people immediately criminal if they are travelling to an area where terrorist organisations rule. So yes, I ask the question and it is also my intention to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u8	Clear, thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. This is a complicated debate with a lot of emotion. That is also what I can see from the pitch on which debates on this subject are usually held, even today. I do not think this is a debate for tough one-liners: leave them in the sandbox, and so on. Perhaps nice as a quote in the newspaper, it might do well in public opinion, but does not do justice to the complexity. I think it's important to keep a cool head and make a sober analysis. I think that on the one hand it is too easy to say 'let them all go there', and on the other hand we are not in favour of an air bridge to pick up people who have deliberately chosen the misery of terrorism. These are people, women, who have worked on a system of torture, rape, slavery and murder. Horrible acts. The goal must be maximum justice. Especially naturally towards the victims of these atrocities. It is important to avoid impunity. I hope that the Minister will be able to say something about the efforts and developments to bring people to justice there. Questions have already been asked about that. In the end, however, it is preferable to do so. The closer to the place where the atrocities have been committed, the better, also for proving the crimes. But you can't keep doing this if it wasn't a realistic scenario anymore. I'd like a response to that. Is there anything else possible? It is certainly also important to see what is best served by national security. That is not necessarily by closing our eyes and advocating leaving those people mainly in those areas. I think that's a little lazy. We must take account of escapes from the camps. Perhaps the Kurds will not endure this infinitely. We can't actually ask them to do that either. If the gates open or people escape, there is a high risk that people will return under the radar without supervision, join terrorist groups and pose a danger. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security says: it is a business-by-business approach, it requires customization. I think that's right. Because getting it back and not getting it back has risks. In some cases, the risk of impunity and the risk of unsupervised return may be greater than controlled return. Then the latter would be preferable. We do know that returners are also at risk, even if you do that in a controlled manner. That's why I need to ask you a few more questions. What about the evidence problems, for example? Is anyone really only being brought back when there is concrete perspective and a great chance of prosecution and conviction? What's the perspective if the evidence doesn't come out of someone who's been actively pulled back for that prosecution and trial? What are the possibilities of supervision and control in such a case? What is the current policy in prisons? How to prevent contamination with radicalisation ideas? How are people actually deradicalized? How effective are these programs? What do we know about them? I think I understand some scepticism about these deradicalization programs. Ideological offenders don't just get rid of it with trainings and courses. If someone claims to have renounced violence, is that correct? How is this handled? How's it going with kids? From what age does specific attention and approach need to be given? Not with a baby, of course, but with a 12-year-old child, it's possible. Is it true that children of extravagants who grow up in an unusual and extreme situation can successfully re-integrate with proper guidance, but that it is better to be there sooner than later? What does this mean for policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr Van Nispen has an interesting point on the deradicalisation programmes. The letter we received said that its effectiveness has not been proven. You're right to be concerned about that. So what is the good intervention in the eyes of the SP in order to eliminate the national danger that these people bring with them? In what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u11	If I knew that, I'd say it here. I might have become a scientist, a criminologist or a behaviorist. That's a very difficult question to answer. You say you can't guarantee safety either. That's right, I can't. I don't think anyone can do that at all. But the point is that I have said that in an interrupting debate with you, and it is also in my story, Mr President, that we need to think about the alternative. What if you don't? What if you take the view that people should mainly be left there? For example, we have doubts about the effectiveness of the deradicalisation programmes, which we are very concerned about. Then you could say, "Leave them there." But my point is that you may be at even greater risk, namely the risk of someone returning uncontrolled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u12	That is why I argued in my speech at least in favour of condemning by default, so that those without presence in the Netherlands can be tried and condemned, so that you can put them behind bars when they return to the Netherlands. My group also calls for minimum penalties, so that you are sure that these perpetrators are in prison for a whole number of years and are monitored there. How does your group view this, I ask Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u13	We have often had the debate on minimum penalties. We are not in favour of this, because we must always take account of the specific circumstances of the case. But I think it's known. I think the problem is also how you prove these crimes. I have explicitly said that we are not in favour of the position 'let everyone be there', because I see risks to national security. Nor are we explicitly in favour of the position of'retrieving everyone checked', because I also foresee major problems of proof. So I think it's a diabolical dilemma. But I see that Mrs Michon is not yet satisfied with the answer to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u14	We'll never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm very sorry about that. But I also asked a question about these deradicalisation programmes, namely: is any scepticism appropriate? How effective are these programs? I'm not saying that you shouldn't do it or we should all let it go. No, I would argue rather to see what you can do to improve that, to gather knowledge about it and to do it all better in the future. At least that would be my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u16	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u17	We also find a very important question of how to deal with the interests of the victims, i.e. of the Jezidis, who have endured atrocities. Do they necessarily benefit from trial here? On the one hand, I would say 'yes, trial is better than impunity', but on the other hand, the question is: how are their legitimate interests protected if the perpetrators are out of sight for them? What about, for example, the right to speak, compensation and so on? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. I understand many views in this sensitive debate. I understand that no one is waiting to turn their back on people who have deliberately turned their backs on the Netherlands. But think above all about what the alternative is, namely: impunity, a blow to the face of the Jezidis and a risk to our safety here if someone would escape and return without supervision. Let us also bear that risk in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the main rule is: anyone entering foreign military service loses his Dutch identity. A year and a half ago, the court in The Hague stated that it is not the judge but politics that should decide what should happen to the ISIS women and their children. Last year, the Hoge Raad ruled that the Netherlands does not need to bring IS women and children back from Syria. And there are no human rights treaties that oblige us to repatriate these women and children. The argument that IS women should be actively withdrawn from Syrian-Kurdish refugee camps so that there is no dismissal of legal proceedings is therefore an absolute fool's errand. Retrieval is a very risky operation and is in any case extremely expensive. And if there is a criminal case, there is a good chance that no or very low penalty will be imposed, because only membership of a terrorist organisation can be proved and all other terrorist atrocities are not. After this the traveller simply becomes part of the society again, with all the risks that this entails for the Dutch. Mr. Chairman. All these arguments argue against the collection of criminals from such countries. My party therefore wonders why so much effort is being made to pick up these people, who should have lost their Dutch identity for a long time. Does this really have the highest priority for the Minister of Justice and Security? There are so many other things to take care of in this country. In this particular case, the circumstances were so exceptional that we apparently have to make an exception to this, but what was so specific about this case? And can you explain why this doesn't set a precedent? Can you tell us what the cost of this whole operation is and whether it is proportionate to the alleged advantage of being able to judge and control the travellers here? And how is this proportionate to the risks for the rest of the Netherlands? How many passports have been taken from double-national IS travellers? And why do you not take advantage of the possibility of suspending the dismissal of these extraditors? Mr. Chairman. If someone leaves the Netherlands to join foreign military service, or helps in a terrorist war, then he or she must lose the Dutch citizenship. As far as we're concerned, a man may well be stateless. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u21	President and best citizens of the Netherlands. To put this debate in perspective, we must travel to Mount Sinjar. According to local folklore, this mountain is where the ark of Noah found dry land. However, this mountain became the site of a disaster in 2014. 50,000 Jezidis were chased up this mountain by the advancing Islamic State. The siege of Mount Sinjar placed the Jezidis in an impossible position. If they stayed on the mountain, they would slowly die of dehydration and hunger. When they came downstairs, they fell into the hands of ISIS. The fate of those who could not escape with the help of heroic Kurdish warriors was terrible. 5,000 Jezidis have been murdered and 7,000 Jezidi women and children have been taken as slaves by the Islamic State, with all the terrible consequences of that. You don't want those consequences to come to your mind, but these women and children, if they're still alive, have to carry them forever. Ilham B. didn't travel to just any wrong foreign club, because her sand had been sprinkled in the eyes. She was 19 years old, mature, and very well able to make her own choices; an adult woman, completely at heart. Completely sane! In fact, convinced of what she started, this adult woman decided to join genocide victims, killers, sadistic murderers, extreme fundamentalists with nothing compassion and compassion, sadistic slave drivers. That she now gets back to Schiphol on a private flight against the will of the Chamber because she misses syrup waffles, Gouda cheese and central heating, is a brutal blow to the face of Jezidis, Assyrians, Christians, Shiites, Alawites, Armenians, Druze and all other groups who have suffered horribly from the horrors of IS. It is not surprising that in 2019 the VVD was absolutely against the return of Syrians and that the CDA also spoke loudly against this. What is crazy is that these parties then get down on their knees for the line chosen by D66. Let's not wear each other out for crazy Henkie. We all know that in a year and a half this woman will live among us again, between us, the ordinary Dutch in the ordinary neighborhoods, but not as the new neighbor in the expensive neighborhoods, where, for example, Mr.Grapperhaus and Mrs.Kaag live. She may even get paid crying at the NPO, and then she goes on to the order of the day, smiling around because she has her freedom back, freedom that has been taken away by her thousands of men, women and children. So what do we think should happen? Quite simply: follow the line that the Jezidis themselves have turned off. With all its diplomatic experience and international law institutions, the Netherlands is capable of rigging an international tribunal for IS fighters and their helpers. Set the table with the UN, the Iraqi Government, the Kurdish authorities and communities who have been victims of the genocide, and ruse this tribunal. This is the only chance of justice and accountability in the region. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. To use the metaphor of Murad Ishmael, a jezidi, the repatriation of Ish'ers to their country of origin is like disrupting a nest of scorpions and then trying to catch them one by one. Let the Netherlands build an international criminal court where perpetrators, victims, knowledge, evidence and witnesses come together for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u22	I do hear Mrs Van der Plas making great lyrics about what the CDA would be like in there. I just kept a story. That didn't look like the D66 line at all. I find that special, or Mrs Van der Plas is listening selectively; I do not know. If she has heard the CDA story correctly, she has heard that our priority is trial in the region. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u23	Yeah, I heard that. And I fully agree, as you say. And I don't all say lyrics about the CDA. I have said exactly one sentence about it, and it is also about 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u24	Well, I just heard Mrs. Van der Plas say: D66 got the VVD and the CDA on her line. But of course that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u25	Well, that's still gonna show up at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u26	I hear Mrs van der Plas making a plea for the rights of the victims. That was in fact Mr Van Nispen's plea. That, I think, is something we all agree with. We absolutely must put that first. At the same time, I would like to ask Mrs Van der Plas the following. Nadia Murad is a UN ambassador. She was also the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2018. She's a jezidi herself. It called on the international community to carry out the trial through the International Criminal Court, the International Criminal Court here in The Hague, and, should this fail, to leave that trial to national Member States. How does Mrs Van der Plas reflect on this call from the victims she is making so hard for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u27	I think I just told you how I'm standing in there. As far as national law is concerned, we all know that this lady will be back on the streets in just a few months to a maximum of two years. And that's what we call a brutal blow to the face of the Jezidis. The Jezidis say the same thing. They just think the fact that she's been retrieved is a hell of a blow to their faces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u28	I would ask Mrs van der Plas to comment on what I have said. The importance of the Jezidis, of the victims, is paramount. We're all in agreement on that. I have also heard the call for that interest to be put first. I would point out that a Nobel Prize winner at the UN itself is a jezidi and has called for this to be done in a different way than the way Mrs van der Plas has just called for. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas how she reflects on this, because in this way we are actually better defending the interests of the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u29	How I feel about that, I have just said in my speech. I'd like to read the part about that tribunal one more time, if that's what you want. I'm not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. Then Mrs Kathmann of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think it should be avoided that the government has decided to bring extravagants back to the Netherlands where it is possible, but not at all because I am jumping or because I find them pathetic, far, far from it. I believe that Mr Markuszower was right in one thing today: we are talking about people who have committed atrocities. Actually, the word "executor" is still inadequate. But Mrs Koekkoek was right on many points in her maiden speech. We are not talking here today about black or white, or good or evil, and preferably not in one-liners or muscle language. We have three specific questions to answer. How do we ensure national and international security? How do we prevent impunity, which means that the interests of the victims are not respected? How do we stay human within these tasks? When we talk about humanity, I would like to highlight the inhumane situation in which these children are sitting. We've all talked to experts. An expert said: "Close your eyes and load the picture of the average IS-goer who is now rotting in a detention camp." The lady said: "Probably now everyone sees a man or perhaps a woman, but at least an adult person, but what you have to see in front of you is a four-year-old who literally rots away there because of the wretched choices parents have made." Those kids are innocent. They don't belong in detention camps. They have a right to care. We must also ensure that they do not radicalise further, because that is also important for our national security. What about their mothers? Yes, many of them have committed atrocities and they must be punished for that. That's what the Labour Party wants. But on the ground in Syria or Iraq is not going to work, certainly not for the time being. Doing nothing and waiting any longer is not an option either, because otherwise they cannot be prosecuted here again, because that is how the law is decorated. The chances of escape or release are increasing. In short, then we really run the risk of luring the danger to us. I would much rather we make the individual assessment here, case by case, how we can prevent this impunity and the risk of insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u32	I can very well follow Mrs Kathmann, but she forgets one important element of an amendment to which her party has also voted, namely the loss of the Dutch identity of travellers. That is what we discussed earlier in the debate. We also ask this Minister what is the situation with regard to this. Are all the possibilities of this also being exploited? I do not hear that in your speech, although your party is in favour of it. I assume you also support my line and would like to ask the Minister very much about it, so that precisely by taking away Dutch citizenship, the chance to come back to the Netherlands is minimized.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u33	I'm not making a spin in that either. However, we are dealing here with a matter of safety or insecurity and impunity. Inside, we do have to look at that case. But when we talk about the case of the lady who was brought back: if it is possible to prevent someone from avoiding her punishment, I would be in favour of it. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned a risk. I don't think he meant it like that, but he said, if we're gonna bring the kids back because we feel sorry for them, you're gonna get the whole issue back here in the Chamber of Family reunification, and we don't want that. I have a question for the cabinet. If we can believe the experts, we will bring the children back from the point of view of safety, regardless of all children's rights that we must also respect. It does more justice to international and national security, because these children do not radicalise. They're still at an age where we can prevent that. Does that give us any other legal basis, so that the aspect of family reunification can also be seen in a different perspective? Then a question about the individual approach per case. What exactly is the balancing framework in there? Are we just looking at the possibility of escape, the risk of impunity and security and insecurity? Or are there more considerations? Which ones are they? I am sure that my question is also: how is the situation of the children weighed in? One more question, which I think Mr Van Nispen also mentioned, about the evidence that is being secured. For this purpose, the Netherlands supports two mechanisms: the United Nations International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism and UNITAD. I was also wondering if the Dutch government still has a task to contribute to not losing evidence. And how successful have such collaborations or guarantees been in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group. After Mr Jansen we are going to congratulate him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Steffie was a girl from Würzburg. She was 24 years old. She went to buy a dress for her best friend's wedding, where she would be the maid of honor. But Steffie's gone. She was stabbed to death by the Somali Abdirahman, who shouted "Allah akbar" while he stabbed her in blind rage. Also 49-year-old Christiane died when she jumped for her 11-year-old daughter to protect her from the foreign beast that was supposedly let in by merciful politicians under the guise of asylum. Christiane's daughter has to grow up without a mother, because people who had to protect her country from such invaders did the opposite. They put hostile troops in residential areas. When Christiane's daughter, who was also stabbed by the Somali, fled the store, 82-year-old Johanna jumped between her and the killer. She didn't survive this, but the girl could escape because of this heroic act. And while all kinds of rulers are gathered to commemorate something that happened hundreds of years ago, Steffie, Christiane and Johanna are not remembered. No, they're forgotten. As soon as possible, because that masks the unrecognizable fact that Steffie, Christiane and Johanna could still be alive. We'll remember them. Because, chairman, Steffie, Christiane and Johanna would not have had to die that day if Germany had refused the Somali Abdirahman at the border. Yes, there are countless examples of Islamic terrorist attacks that have taken place in our beautiful Europe in recent years. In twenty years, the Avondland was mutilated 442 times by the hatred of our people. 2,500 Europeans lost their lives and another 8,500 were injured. Is the cabinet going to set up a memorial day for them too? No, with this in mind, the government decided this month to bring IS terrorist Ilham B. back to the Netherlands. The same Ilham B. who bragged to her niece in 2013 how happy she was married to an IS fighter who won victories on the battlefield against the Syrian government's army. "By Allah sisters, there is jihad. Now to the shia that call themselves Muslim, is what she sent. Then she went to Syria herself to do her part in sowing death and destruction, like many other women, sisters in their struggle. A quote from a Jezidi: "IS women were worse than the warriors. They beat the captured women and helped the warriors rape them." Why are we getting these obviously hostile foreigners, who have chosen to leave our far too hospitable country for Syria, to terrorize Syria and Iraq, why the hell are we bringing those people back to the Netherlands? We should be glad they left. When are we going to choose our own country for the protection of our own people? Because from the left side of the Chamber I was told today that it would be good for our safety if we brought those ISIS women to the Netherlands. How do you beg? This reversal of truth, which sounds more often from their side, has never been so insincere and nauseous. If we do not bring these terrorists to justice in the Netherlands, they say, they might come to the Netherlands themselves. And the truth is that if these terrorists are tried in the Netherlands, they'll be back on the streets in a few years, they'll be allowed to walk our streets freely. The only reason they can return to the Netherlands is because this government keeps the borders wide open. No, for left-wing parties it is not a question of security but of further encouraging mass immigration that has already affected so many people. The right-wing parties are today expressing their opposition to the return of these terrorists. I am pleased about that, but I also hope that they will add their voices to the vote. These IS women must never, ever return to the Netherlands. That is why I will be tabling Mr Markuszower's motion in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u36	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I invite both maiden speechers to find a place here, and we will congratulate them warmly. After the congratulations, I'll suspend for half an hour and then we'll listen to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u37	I will be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. Time is ticking and we've been upset for a few hours. I actually hope that we can do it a little short and pointy. It is an important issue that we need to deal with properly, but we also need to think about time. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u38	It's hard to talk through people, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yes. I would like to ask everyone to remain silent and sit down, in that order. The same goes for Mrs Michon. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. We are debating today on the occasion of the Dutch extortionist suspected of terrorist offences, who was transferred to the Netherlands for trial on 5 June 2021. In last week's cabinet letter Friday 25 June, I addressed questions raised during oral Question Time and written questions received from your Chamber. My colleague, Mr Kaag, will answer the questions about minors in the camps in Syria and about the possibilities and inability of an international trial. First of all, I will address your parliamentary questions about adult extravagants suspected of terrorist offences and, of course, a few specific questions about this case. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch who left often did so in order to join terrorist organisations such as ISIS or ISIS or Al-Qaeda. The images of the crimes committed in the name of such and other organisations are still on our minds. There is every reason to think that Dutch extravagants have also committed the most horrific terrorist crimes. In recent years, the cabinet has always said that these people must be tried. The cabinet attaches great importance to this. Persons suspected of terrorist offences should be brought to justice in order to account for their crimes. Unlawfulness must be prevented at all times. This is important not only for the rule of law but also for the enforcement of the international legal order. In an international context, I would like to draw your attention to United Nations Resolution 2178 of 2014. The starting point is that all Member States ensure that any person suspected of terrorist offences is tried. Therefore, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated criminal proceedings for in many cases suspicion of participation in a terrorist organisation (Article 140a of the Code of Criminal Law) or the preparation of a terrorist offence, Articles 96 and 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. To the people who are watching here and at home, I would like to explain that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office has an autonomous decision-making power, for which this minister is then politically responsible. Meanwhile, the cabinet continues to explore options to try out travellers in the region where the terrorist crimes have been committed. My colleague will deal with this later. In the case of the creditor in question, the situation had arisen that the Dutch court had indicated that the termination of the criminal proceedings would follow if the Dutch Government did not do everything possible to bring the carrier back to the Netherlands so that she could attend her trial. I've informed your Chamber of that before. If you follow the whole track back, you will see my first letter on this subject on behalf of the February 2019 cabinet. It also makes that aspect very clear, that if we do not look at it as a cabinet, there could be an end to the criminal case. After that, there's a whole sequence of letters, but I'm not gonna bother you with that right now. In the specific case...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mrs. Michon, I had the impression that the Minister was in the middle of an introduction. I'd like him to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u42	It's an introduction. I'll come back to all the questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u43	Let him finish his introduction, with all due respect, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. In the specific case where the judge says: "government, now you really have to do everything in your power to see if someone can be repatriated," the cabinet assesses whether this is appropriate on a case-by-case basis. The first is the question of security in the region. Secondly, the question of international diplomatic relations. The third point concerns the safety of the persons concerned. This always takes account of the balance of interests for national security. If the cabinet is faced with the possibility of ending the criminal case, case by case will be examined on the basis of those criteria as to how it stands and what possible opportunities might be. I would also point out that travellers can always return to the Netherlands on their own. I have discussed and written this with your Chamber a number of times, and that is when they report to a Dutch diplomatic representation in the region. Then they are transferred by the Royal Marechaussee and arrested upon arrival in the Netherlands. In this way, in 2020 and 2021, a total of just under 10 adults. Mr. Chairman. There is another important point that we really need to face here. We have seen in the last two years that people have escaped from the camps. That is also what your colleague, Mr Van der Werf, has considered, and I also discussed this with your Chamber at the end of June 2020 in oral Question Time. Once the criminal case has been brought to an end by the judge, such a person can return to the Netherlands without penalty. Once back in the Netherlands, the possible supervisory measures that can be imposed by the court on a conviction are no longer at issue. After all, persecution is no longer possible. I want to make that very clear. When the judge closes the criminal case, it's done, no matter how painful. Then the "ne bis in idem" principle applies. Mr. Chairman. Once back, you have the surveillance measures, the Long-Term Surveillance Act. Another point is that there is therefore no legal documentation on terrorist offences. Such a person could simply participate in society again and get a job somewhere without the person taking him having knowledge of the past. Since there will be no irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence, the Dutch Society cannot, of course, be withdrawn if that person has a second nationality. Finally, I would like to point out that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under Article 14, the fourth paragraph of Article 14, which is the withdrawal of the AIVD from office, still does not deprive anyone of the right to be present in his criminal case. That right is still there. All in all, in addition to the issue of impunity, there is also a consideration in the context of national security that we want to prevent people from returning to society with impunity under the radar. So much for my introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mrs. Michon was just standing by the interrupting microphone. Before I give her the floor, I would like to say that I am limiting the interruptions in the first term of the cabinet to three interruptions in two. I call Mrs Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u46	I referred to what the Minister said about his information and the notes he sent to the Chamber on this case in March of this year and in June of last year. The frustration of me and my group in Question Time was partly in the somewhat fragmented information we received from the cabinet. On June 5th we first saw a press conference in Northern Syria via social media, in the evening we got a rather short note and last Friday we received a very comprehensive and informative letter. My group and I welcome that letter. How does the Minister himself assess the way in which the Chamber has been informed about this? It is complicated to be constantly up-to-date about the full width of this dossier. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u47	I have already said this at Question Time on the basis of critical notes made by Mrs Michon, and I repeat that here. I understand the feelings of discontent, but I really think the way the information has run here is the only right one. I took page 3 of the letter of 21 February 2019, in which it was raised for the first time, because it came to us from the court, that the court could decide to close the criminal case. In the course of 2020, the court became clearer and clearer and said: if we do not do it now, we will end the criminal case. That's all shared with your room. Also, as far as possible, in the letter of 9 March 2021, it was shared with your Chamber that we were in a further discussion with the European countries to see what the concrete possibilities and consequences are. That was already stated in a previous letter. That letter really comes in a sequence of previous letters, in which we've always reported that we're looking at it. Then, as soon as the operation was done and our people were safe, in jargon that is not mine, it is called wheels of the ground..................................................................................................................................................... The comprehensive letter was, of course, also in the light of the technical briefing and, in preparation for this debate, with the aim of bringing everyone into it as well as possible. I hope everyone understands that we cannot announce such a delicate operation in advance. There's no other way. But we were in an ever-expanding conversation with other countries to see what is possible, as stated in the letter of 9 March, for this lady and her children. In addition, in connection with privacy, I have sent a confidential letter to your Chamber about a single minor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u48	So the Minister says: the moment we don't bring them here, that's the end of the prosecution. Then I think the whole of the Netherlands says: so what? Then they'll stay there. The only thing you add to that is: yes, but then they can get under the radar, then we don't have an ear and eye anymore and then they can stay here. I think the odds of that happening are pretty low. Then one must escape from there or people in Syria must say: go back. But they still have to come here. Then we'll be able to keep an eye on those people, those women? That is what they said in the round table: of course we are on top of that. In fact, there's a pretty good chance that we're gonna have them. You're going to actively bring them here because they'll be punished there. I think a lot of people are right to think: let them stay there, because that is a much greater punishment than they are still giving here that little punishment, which we talked about. In addition, there is, of course, the risk that while they are staying here in prison, they will build a radical network. They can continue to spread the ideas within our borders. Is that what the Minister wants? I do not think that this whole concept of impunity is working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u49	I will deal with this impunity in a moment, but that second point concerns the risk to national security that they go under the radar. Last year we saw this happen at some point in time in some cases. For example, two women suddenly showed up at the Turkish consulate. That happened in November 2019 and you can find it in the Chambers, because I have informed you about it. Then there's that other point. I drew your attention to the United Nations resolution. You can of course say: well, what do we care about the United Nations? But the word 'United Nations' already says it: other countries also have these obligations. Over the last few years, I have been in constant consultation with the security ministers, because in other countries, security has been invested with Home Affairs ministers. I spoke to them about the fact that they often had larger numbers of travellers and about the fact that some of those countries had no legislation at all like ours. We should indeed be grateful to a number of Members of Parliament for having taken the initiative in the past to impose severe penalties here. The Netherlands therefore has an obligation under that UN resolution, but we would also not be happy with our national security if other countries did not, because then we could, for example, get numbers of French or Swedish extravagants here. The point is, of course, that the principle of the rule of law lies behind this point of impunity. I will come back to that question about the penalties, but I would like to take an advance on this by telling you that this week a sentence of up to six years has been issued for someone who had not left, but who had made clear ISIS statements. I'll get to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. It has, of course, that constitutional aspect, but also the aspect... You'll get back to national security by way of a detour. The Netherlands could say: "You know, we just don't do it. We let them sit there and we let all these prosecutions just end here." And again, the decision whether or not to prosecute should be in our separation of powers with the Public Prosecutor's Office and then with the judge. But really, Mr President, for our safety we cannot afford not to do anything, because if others follow that wrong example, then we are even more at risk. And I can't justify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u50	Then we'll talk about the punishments. We're going international now, and I'm fine with that. You say, "We'll have to bring them to justice." But you are doing everything you can to get that lady to come here, because that is why you opened the whole box of tricks. Several experts, including Koopmans and Ellian, have said that there is much more possibility of doing so there with the Kurds or in an ad hoc tribunal. Anything can be investigated and looked at, but to that trickbox you say you don't want to venture. The other way around, all sorts of things are being tried to get that lady here anyway. That's what the trickbox just opens up to, isn't it? But when it comes to bringing them to justice, you say "the UN" and then the story stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr Eerdmans, like me, follows the comments in the media well. It's hard for him to say that that's where the tone has been that over the past few years, I've done everything I can to get the people here. I didn't. Why not? I have accounted for that by saying that we have that important three-stroke. What is the situation in the region? I've always said we're not going to send our people to an unsafe area. If that's possible, we're going to have a case by case on this one, we've had it once so far that such a window occurred after the judge said: here's someone else I'll let go free. Let's just say it loud and clear. Furthermore, they were people who came to the consulate and Mr Eerdmans can rely on them: we expect them immediately. That's one point. The other point is this. It is, of course, and remains, that we cannot afford to leave it as a country if a judge states that our separation of powers is in the process: you must do your best to bring those people here. That "best" has been filled in by the Supreme Court in a very clear way, which also makes it very narrow, case by case, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u52	I can very well follow the Minister in what he just said to Mr Eerdmans. Trial is very important and we must strive for, preferably trial in the region of the Netherlands, where we still come to trial in the Netherlands. But if we read those pieces, then there are 110 extravagants, who are still in Syria. We read that there are 45 people in Kurdish detention camps. Then it's true that we out of 65 people don't even know where they are. They're somewhere in Syria. So we don't have eyes on them. All these 110 people are now subject to criminal proceedings from the Netherlands. Now, if a lawyer from someone who's not in a detention camp says, "Go pick them up, we won't, will we?" After all, we don't know where they are. So I ask the Minister: can we not condemn much more by default? That is what we are doing with the people who are not in detention camps, because we cannot do otherwise. If we do not do that with the 65, then the risk is that we now run a very concrete 45 people. Those are the people we manage to track down in one of those Kurdish detention camps, and where we have to arm ourselves against the tricks of their lawyers. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u53	I would perhaps like to agree under different circumstances, but I really have to say the following here. We're talking about a triple in the story here. The first strike is that there's a criminal case going on. It has been launched by the Public Prosecutor in accordance with international conventions and also in accordance with our own Code of Criminal Law. I cannot stand here, as Minister of Justice, with a dry eye when I say to you: let us give the public prosecutor a lead. I can do that together with you, that they should not do so. That's the first strike of the triple. The second stroke of the triple is that the judge says: okay, now you really have to do your best to get that suspect here. I have an explanation of why that right of presence is so fundamental, and we are looking at it on the basis of very solid criteria. This has happened once during the period when I am here as a ruler. Thirdly, you will see that the Supreme Court has made a very clear statement: as a State, you do not have an obligation to do so, because as regards national security and foreign policy, the judge must, in his turn, exercise restraint, as we must, on the other hand, exercise restraint with regard to a judge's decision. I will explain this right of presence in greater detail later. If the judge decides: I want to see this suspect at the hearing, then as Minister of Justice and Security I will have to say: it is then again my reluctance to respect that. Then I get to the number of people. It is always the case that we are not only looking through the security aspect of preventing impunity, but also by continuing to monitor as much as possible through our services and through our diplomatic posts and otherwise, trying to keep an optimal view of those 110 people that Mrs Michon has just referred to. That is a very important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u54	Do I understand this minister correctly? I'd like to say that we've really got a little bit of focus here. I understand the whole racket you said. What we've been through, Ilham B... we all don't want anymore. But the potential risk is therefore those 110 extravagants who are still there, and that is not the 45 who are only in those Kurdish camps. I would like to say that we share this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u55	I will come back to that in detail later, but I will take an advance very briefly. Every traveller of course has a risk qualification. Let's make that very clear. They have the qualification "risk to national security." How this is further coloured depends on the special circumstances. I will be able to deal with this in greater detail in the face of the threat posed by those returners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u56	The minister says he has been reluctant and wants to remain in the repatriation of those terrorists, those ISIS-goers. But in my view, the Minister is ignoring the fact that he has set a precedent through this withdrawal action. So the Minister can now express the intention that he will want to remain cautious, but with the precedent of this withdrawal action, we all have a huge problem. I would like the Minister to take that up. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can go into more detail about the low penalties in the Netherlands and then in conjunction with that word 'punished'. The minister is retrieving terrorists who spend an average of 24 months net in a cell. Is that what the minister's punishment is for? So these are actually two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u57	It's getting a little complicated. Questions were asked about this in the first term and I have therefore arranged and taken them together. I find it a little complicated. If you will forgive me, Mr President, because you are setting the order, I do not think it is appropriate to bring forward any of these questions again through interruptions. I would therefore like to say through you to Mr Markuszower that I will really come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u58	Then we'll do it later. We'll deal with it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'll get back to you. He knows me well enough that he can address me if I don't come back to it. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start with the point of policy. Mrs Kathmann in particular had a number of questions about this. What are these balancing frameworks that are being used? I just mentioned it. I would just like to say that I read in one of the newspapers this morning: Room is faced with a dilemma. I thought it might be possible, but for the government there has always been consistency. We have not had a dilemma as to what the rules are. From the beginning, this cabinet has said: listen, we are always going to apply three criteria when the judge says that a suspect should come here. We are going to look at the security situation in the region, international and diplomatic relations on the ground and the security of all those involved. The latter is also an important point. As an overarching point, that is the balance between national security. Over time it has also been in the balance of interests a bit more here, a bit more there. But those are the important points. Mr Van Haga asked about the case of Ilham B. The specific is considered on a case-by-case basis. Here's a case by case, but I was raised with the term "on a case by case." At Ilham B., the criminal court had indicated at the beginning of 2019 that the government had to do its best to do something about it. That was a little more open. Then the judge made it much sharper. Because the judge said from 2020: I'm about to set a deadline. It's been extended twice by the judge. We have just had the particular situation that presented itself with an opportunity to do it at least in a way that is consistent with those three principles. Mrs Kathmann asked: how do you stay within that whole human? You always make the customization and the different interests are weighed. But again, this is the issue of preventing the impunity of people suspected of serious terrorist offences. That's something that's still in the vantage point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u60	I would like to come back to what the Minister has just said. In your letter of 25 June last week, page 8, to be precise, says: "The security situation in Northern Syria is fragile and fluid." I've been wondering since when.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u61	The fragility and fluidity of that region is there for as long as I am a minister. That was the case on 26 October 2017. But if you look at what happened in the previous cabinet... again for the people who look: I am responsible for that in my office, too, so that's not the point. But when you look at history, you can see that fluidity has been there for a long time. I would like to take one example of a development that illustrates this very well: the Turkish invasion, or the invasion by Turkish troops or by Turkish troops, or how should I put it? The presence of Turkish troops, to put it diplomatically, in Northeast Syria as of September 2019. That was one of the many developments in that area that made the situation different. Finally, a small, salient illustration. This cabinet, and the House of Representatives has adopted it, has worked hard on a bill on the punishment of presence in terrorist territory. At some point, there was a discussion about spring 2018 and it was said: but ISIS is almost completely defeated. I think the previous American president has made some sweeping statements about that, too, so to speak. That's English for: far-reaching comments. But ISIS is still present in that region. We all know those lovely Dutch villages where you haven't been for twenty years, comes back and sees that it's still the way it was. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u62	I asked because I thought the terms "fragile" and "fluid" were a bit remarkable. In recent years, reasons have always been given not to do so. They said it's unsafe. Now it turned out to be all right. There wasn't a lot going on either. And now you're calling it "fragile" and "fluid." So what exactly happened, which led us to this terminology?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u63	I very much appreciated Mrs Van der Werf's maiden speech, including her contribution to the oral questions a few weeks ago. But I do not think this is right to what I have made clear so far. When I have said "fragile" and "fluid," I am talking about a battle zone with incredibly many groups of parties who are against each other. That is a completely unclear whole that our services should be happy to keep a very close eye on this at least. Indeed, I have just said from the bottom of my heart that I have always been very reluctant to send our people, our diplomats and our military, into that area. I have spoken about this with many people who know the area, for example the highest boss of the International Red Cross, who has drawn my attention to how dangerous it was there. That changed. Now there has been a moment where, also through contacts with other European countries, we could know that we could go in temporarily. That's how it's done there. So it's not like the Channel Tunnel, where you just get on the train, get out on the other side and it doesn't matter. It's really a fluid and fragile area. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga had another question about costs. He's not here right now. In the system of budgeting and accounting, it is not appropriate to account for costs at individual level of the case. That's what's going on here, too. There is also a large number of services, which are carried out by different ministries. When Mr Van der Plas asked critical questions about this in oral Question Time, I said that it is part of the rule of law to do certain things. That's what's going on here. I think that the motion tabled by Mrs van der Plas on this matter was also rejected. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of criminal proceedings and minimum sentences. But first, why does a suspect have to be present at the criminal trial? I understand the VVD's questions about that. You've gone out, you've put yourself in that area, and then why can you rely on being in charge of your criminal case anyway? The first is that the right of a suspect to be present in the course of his or her criminal proceedings is one of the fundamental pillars of the right to a fair trial and thus of the rule of law. That is something that already goes back to our own Code of Criminal Procedure, and I can mention all the articles and the settled case law of the Supreme Court. It's the judge who decides the defendant's presence. The judge's assessment is case-dependent. It weighs up all the relevant facts and circumstances. That right of presence, according to the case law of our Supreme Court, is difficult but not absolute. The judge must balance all the interests involved, including the interest of the suspect in exercising his right of presence, the interest not only of the suspect but also of society in an effective and timely trial, and the importance of good justice. In that assessment, it was decided here by the court that the defendant in question should be present. I will, of course, fully accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u64	I understand that the Minister has not yet really addressed the specificity and costs, while the costs are likely to be infinitely high. What interests me much more is that, of course, the Minister for Justice and Security has to do a lot of things incredibly. He has to make a choice in that. He doesn't do a lot of things, either. Why has this case been given such a high priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u65	First of all. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the Public Prosecutor has the autonomous power to decide whether or not to pursue the prosecution. I have explained that it also comes from obligations at international level, but it is also very clearly linked to our own Code of Criminal Law. At least that's how it goes at first. If we are going to take this kind of shocking crime because that is what it is, of course, taking that step, and if the independent judge wants to see that suspect, then I think that within the framework we have, we should consider on a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate, meaningful, possible and so on to get the suspect involved here. The trials against organised crime, for example, are also extensive. Mr Van Haga knows that. He is also in favour of this. But they cost a lot of money. Unfortunately, that's money you can't tell the defendant in a rule of law. The rule of law is working in such a way that you don't pay for your own criminal proceedings. However, we must ensure that, as a society, we give our Public Prosecutor's Office and our judiciary the opportunity to continue to prosecute this kind of shocking crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u66	That you're gonna deal with organized crime, I get it. It seems obvious to me that you have to adhere largely to certain treaties if it is in the interests of the Netherlands. But this is not in the coalition agreement. This isn't in the CDA election program. I know the CDA as a merciful party. If you choose to focus your money, your resources and your resources on something, then we have the supplementing affair, Groningen, youth care, legal aid and the capacity shortage in judges. There are many different areas where the Minister of JenV could focus on. If that mercy, which is in the CDA and which I always find in you, should be used, why not with the ordinary Dutch, which we stand for here? Why does that have to go to people who have joined a horrible terrorist organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u67	First of all, perhaps I should deal with a rather more than minor misunderstanding with Mr Van Haga. The Minister of Justice has nothing to say about the application of the principle of opportunity by the Public Prosecutor's Office. If we do that, we will become the kind of country we used to call a totalitarian state and still call it. Your Chamber and I, which means that your Chamber will instruct me to do so, may give a lead to the Public Prosecutor to prosecute a particular case or not. At least it's not my place to interfere. My predecessors haven't done that either, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Secondly, I would like to stress once again that these are socially shocking crimes. That is how I heard Mr Van Haga in his first term. We really want to see the people who are suspected of this, I must also say clearly that they are brought to justice and accountable. Mr Kaag will deal with the question of what is possible in terms of trial in the region. In any case, it was very clear that the hourglass began to empty at the Dutch criminal court without us having a look at a tribunal or anything in the region; I dare tell you that now. You shouldn't want to wear that impunity as a society. People have to answer to a case like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u68	Your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u69	How many do I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u70	You have three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u71	Three! And they go in two? So three times two. And now I'm starting my second? Well, that's great. They're still choices. As far as I am concerned, you have a choice, because the judge has decided that it is up to politics. However, while I am still working on my second interruption, I wonder how the Minister stands against my plea to ensure that people who have one passport lose their passports, lose their Dutch identity and become stateless when they travel, commit these acts and enter into strange military service, as was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u72	First of all, no, the criminal court did not say that this is up to politics. Mr Van Haga is confusing two things here. When a number of women in the camps started a short-term procedure through their lawyer and said 'you must come and get us', the Supreme Court, as I have just explained, said that the government does not have an obligation to do so, that this is a matter of national security or foreign policy, and that the judge should be reluctant to do so. Look, I don't mean to sound like a coincidence, but we really need to keep these things apart. Otherwise people will get a very wrong picture of the whole thing. I think that Mr Van Haga's other question was about the issue of statelessness. There is a UN Convention of 1961, which specifically states that we must not take away a person of one nationality who is a national. I shall come back to the issue of the removal of nationality in detail later. I have a number of questions about this, for example about the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. If that's what you want, Mr. Chairman, I can take it now. Then I got it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u73	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes, because otherwise my interruption will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u75	Perhaps Mr Van Haga will have one left. That'll be free for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u76	We're not doing bonus interruptions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u77	Okay. Let me now turn to the question of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u79	Then I will go on with that, because Mr Van Haga also had questions about the criminal case. Maybe you'd like to answer it first. Mr Van Haga asked why I am not using my power to suspend the termination of the criminal case. I don't have that authority. I don't know where that came from either. I've got the law articles here. I believe it is now Article 29 criminal proceedings. In my time, but it's been a long time since I studied; that's really a long time ago. A suspect has the right to request the court to terminate his criminal proceedings. Certain conditions apply. It is up to the criminal court to determine whether the prosecution has been complied with and whether the prosecution is terminated. I would like to stress that you do not want to live in a state in which the Minister of Justice is going to determine what the judge is doing for judgments. I therefore have nothing to say about this as Minister of Justice and Security. I think that is quite right in this rule of law. I have already said what is necessary about the fair trial for the defendant. I am looking through you at Mrs. Michon on the matter of attendance. In the end, it's been a judge's decision to really want those people present in person. Then, of course, I'll come to the punishments. The consideration of whether a sentence should be imposed and, if so, what punishment, is not up to me or, by the way, not to the Chamber, but to the criminal court. This cabinet is not in favour of the introduction of minimum penalties. However, I would like to remind you that the Netherlands has not historically had this before war criminal law either. So we have to realise that very well. Of course, our law, including our criminal law, has evolved over the years since the Second World War, but the criminal lawman does this very conscientiously and professionally. Mr Eerdmans is, of course, well informed and can always present me with a case in which someone has been in prison for two or three years, but I just referred to you as the recent case of the court of The Hague. It has been discussed in great detail in the Dutch daily. A female suspect has been sentenced to six years in prison and TBs with coercion for terrorism and war crimes, because according to the judges she was violently salafistic and in 2019 spread IS equipment on a very extensive scale, i.e. propaganda, via Telegram. They also found two horrible videos in which prisoners of war were horribly killed. That really is an example of the fact that enough is happening in that respect. Now I want to go to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u81	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u82	I lost it for a while. This was a nice intermezzo, but I would like to know what the Minister of Justice and Security thinks about taking passports from people who only have one passport so that they become stateless. All over the world, 10 million people are stateless. In the Netherlands 13,000 people are stateless. That's not a problem at all. We used to do that. Poncke Princen was a foreign warrior, lost his Dutchmanship and was then stateless. Well, he applied for another passport in the country where he was fighting and got a passport there. These people can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u83	My illustrious predecessor Ivo Opstelten has already indicated to your Chamber in 2015 that you cannot withdraw the nationality of someone who has only one nationality, the Dutch nationality. That doesn't mean that people in the Netherlands couldn't have that wish, so "does he still deserve Dutch nationality?" That is not allowed on the right, but there is another point. There are countries that do that, but that means that other countries, such as the Netherlands, will get those stateless people on their backs. If you're assuming you want to be in a well-functioning world order, then you shouldn't make people standless. Because in the end, a lot of things in the field of the rule of law would not go well. Then we would also have a lot of people here that we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u84	All right, let's finish. Of course, this is just not true. It is the Minister's wish to comply with the UN Convention. Other countries do not do that on this point. If you have one passport, the Dutch passport, and all this crazy, even the VVD wants your passport withdrawn. She just reported it. So you can become stateless. That's a choice. It's not like you can't. It might be the CDA's wish not to. Fine, but as far as I'm concerned, the importance of the Netherlands is at the top of the balance of interests, and I would say: simply withdraw those passports, make them stateless and let them try to apply for a passport in the country they want to serve so badly, in Iraq or Syria or wherever they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u85	Ivo Opstelten was a lot, but not a member of the CDA. At the time, therefore, a VVD minister simply said: we have this international obligation. And I endorse that. I explained that this has not only a purely legal background. The background to this is also that you are going to participate differently in a number of states in the world that do not care very much about the fate of other countries. It is of course very easy to say: I take the passport of anyone who does not like me; I transfer them across the border and then my neighbour will solve it. We would not want the Belgians or the Germans to do that either. That treaty was signed in 1961. Of course, your Chamber is always free to say that it wants to go out of that treaty, but I did not say for nothing that this had been the case years ago and that it was then rejected with about the same reasons. Mr. Chairman. Then I really come to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether we can actively focus on withdrawing the Dutchmanship in order to prevent return. Well, on the basis of Article 14 (4) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, you can indeed withdraw Dutch citizenship if a person who is abroad has joined a terrorist organisation there. But we're gonna need a notice from the AIVD for that. That service will therefore have to give us the information so that we can take that decision legally. That's how the law works. If that statement of office is not available, then we shall be the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and I shall not be able to do so legally. By the way, you're talking about people with two nationalities. I would like to emphasise this, because we were just talking about someone who was only Dutch. But, yeah, we can only really do that with a message like that. Lately, we've been doing that for real and as soon as we can. I've also shown your room records of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u86	I understand the need for an official report, but a criminal case also requires a lot of work. There a decision is made at some point to ensure that you can get enough documentation. How come you can start a trial with documentation, with facts, but not... that sounds even easier, because you just have to prove that someone is part of such an organization. But that would be more difficult, or it wouldn't really come off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u87	It seems to be from some distance. What Mr Van der Staaij says, I admit. In addition, he finds me by his side. That was my first thought, too. But it's not like that. In the case of Article 14 (4), you take away a person's nationality without any further trial. In the other case we have, Article 14 (2), you're going to have someone... then there's been a criminal trial, followed by an irrevocable conviction. Then you can use a reference to that irrevocable conviction to say, "Well, here's a stamp. We withdraw nationality." Here this is done on the basis of a message from the secret service, as it is popularly called. There is therefore no judicial review. The department wants that message of office... that's what you can see in parliamentary history with regard to that article of the law. So one really has to have good ground for that and stand firm for it, probably on a number of points also firmer than in a criminal case. By the way, this has happened in 17 cases. I just forgot to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u88	That last, that actual number, I find interesting to hear. But also for an irrevocable condemnation, a lot of water has flowed through the sea and you have had to collect a lot of facts. It is not clear to me why this route cannot be chosen in more cases, or why it cannot be made more active.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u89	We are talking about someone who is still elsewhere, who is still in the field of combat or about it, at least not here, whose nationality must be taken away on the basis of a single message of office from the service, without a judge coming in, or a defence; all those things of the ECHR. So that means that this message of office must be very well founded by the service. When the service brings that message, it is further up to the service. But I understand very well that they want to fund this very hard. Those who are transferred here, who are taken into custody and who are the subject of criminal proceedings, may still be the subject of a trial, witness evidence or other evidence. As a lawyer, I understand that there seems to be some reservations about this report, because it is, of course, quite a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u90	Two things. I find it very strange that we were on the Square last week and received a petition on behalf of 7,000 people in the Netherlands who are stateless, while the cabinet already promised in 2007 that they would receive a Dutch passport. These people are stateless, living and working here, living here, paying taxes, but can't buy a house, can't get a mortgage, can't vote, and they can't even visit their family, their dementing grandparents somewhere in another country, because they can't travel outside Europe. So the Netherlands doesn't have that much trouble with people who are stateless, because these people have been waiting for a Dutch passport for almost fifteen years. That's what I said. Maybe I missed it. That might be possible, but can the Minister explain very simply whether the people who have travelled to those areas have a second nationality at all? Has that been investigated? Is that even possible to investigate? If so, why is that not being investigated? Maybe you've already said it. But with all due respect to the Minister, sometimes there are a lot of words and I don't get the message. I just have a very simple question: is it being investigated? If not, why isn't it being investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u91	I understand that. But I'm trying to explain it all as calm and nuanced as possible. Because, as one of the Members, Mr Van Nispen, said, you can easily fall into all kinds of one-liners, but that does not explain why we are talking about such an extremely complicated but important subject. The answer to Mrs van der Plas' question is yes. I cannot, of course, say anything about that, because that is precisely the work of our services. Then about the people you're talking about. It sounds a little lame now, but that's a matter that rests with my secretary of state. I would be very happy if I did not agree to this debate on behalf of the Commission to come up with a letter with me to explain again why this is a very different matter. We're talking about people who have Dutch nationality and who make you stateless. I don't know if that's possible, but if you're not careful and bring them to Kranendonk so to speak or what's it called at the Belgian border? Then you say "well, exactly" and then you put it on another country's plate. I understand the fate of those 7,000 people very well. I would therefore like to say that I will return to that in a letter with Mr Broekers-Knol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u92	That's good. But during this debate, could the Minister perhaps present an A4 to the Chamber, which states how many people who are going to go to ISIS are sure that they only have Dutch nationality, how many people we know have dual nationality, how many people are still being investigated whether they have that nationality and how is that being investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u93	Then I really have to see if I did not say the necessary things in my letter of 25 June, or in an earlier letter. Otherwise, I'll make sure we have the exact numbers at the beginning of the second term. Then we can also see how many people have already died there on the spot, how many have returned, I said that just now because they reported to a consulate and were taken into custody, how many people are still under the radar and how many in the camps. It says so in earlier documents, but it is an omission if I did not repeat that in the letter of 25 June. So I'm gonna get that in a minute, in suspension, quick. Perhaps that is already being worked on at the moment, because the microphone is on. I see the NCTV nodding: they are already working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u94	There is another question from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u95	So we can take the passport from the people there, if the message has been received. I understand that's what happened in 17 cases. That's not much, but it's done. Are you active in getting those official messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u96	It is a little complicated to say a lot about this in this context. Throughout the portfolio distribution the agreement has been made that the primary responsibility for this lies with the Secretary of State. In any case, I can say that Mr Broekers-Knol and I are very active in keeping the process of withdrawing Dutch citizenship as much as possible, if I may put it that way. Honor to whom credit is due: that has already started with Mr Harbers, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think it's a little easier because we're dealing with it ourselves. Instead of the whole circus we're putting up by bringing such a lady here, I'd say, put your energy into getting that message of office, and rapido. This is how we can act and throw those people out of the country, I say in my words. I think this is a little more effective and can work a little faster than the Grapperhaus method.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's not the Grapperhaus method. Let's be very careful for a moment. That would mean that I have the judiciary in my pocket, but I do not want it and I do not. You saw me shaking no when Mr Eerdmans was still working on his sentence. It's not that simple. It's not a question of giving rapido a notice of office. It means that the services must say: we now have enough available to issue such a message of office. That will have to come from the information that has been obtained there often with the help of others, because we have fortunately allies.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I can assure you that this is a harsh matter. I think that Mr Eerdmans and I both wish it was very simple, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'm fine with that, but I'd like to make a call. I hope you take that very actively. That would reassure me a little more than you say: it is so complex and we are all waiting for it. "Even" is an incorrect word, but go actively into it, so that we, the Netherlands, can get our hands on those ministry messages as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u100	In the summer of 2018 or 2019, just before the recess, Mrs Laan and Mrs Van Toorenburg have already called in a motion for a resolution for a really good approach. We were all just getting started with this new law back then. I have just said that first Harbers and now Secretary of State Broekers-Knol, together with me, are really trying to get the wheel to spin. But that is not yet at the point of simply getting office messages, because it is a repulsive matter, as I have said, to collect the material for that purpose. That's not so much with me as with the service. Mr. Chairman. I'll go through the point of monitoring the returners a little faster. Questions have been asked about this by the VVD and the Christian Union. The aim of this approach is to identify, manage and eliminate the security risks. This also means that you start to minimize the risk of unnoticed return to the Netherlands. Then I have already said what is necessary about this case. All identified travellers are included in the Schengen Information System. A European arrest warrant has been issued for all of them, I would like to say to Mr Eerdmans through you. In any case, this indicates that we must not give the impression that these people have left and that we have not put out red flags in every possible way. Their passports have been identified and declared invalid. If they somehow come back here in the Netherlands, there is supervision in different phases and from different frameworks, both during detention and afterwards. During detention it is very clearly monitored and it is considered whether it is possible to get someone out of his or her extremist network and mindset. The radicalized inmates are also discussed during the Multidisciplinary Attunement Consultation Resocialization, the MAR. There the relevant parties share the risk information needed to see how such a person, if the sentence has been served, enters society in a safe way for us. After detention, there are a number of frameworks that allow for criminal law but also administrative measures to monitor and promote behavioural change. I have already referred to the Long-Term Supervision Act, which makes it possible to monitor change of behaviour as long as necessary. Furthermore, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office obviously have a role to play when new criminal offences are suspected. We have seen that in the group of seven that was taken into custody in September 2018 you will remember that, chairman in Arnhem and in Weert. In addition, if this is important in the context of threat, people are always on the agenda of local meetings under the direction of the municipality and in which all disciplines such as police and other agencies are present. Finally, of course, we also have our services and the police also have a duty to supervise. What about a person who loses Dutch citizenship, asked Mrs Bikker. Is there any need for an additional legal instrument for this? There are therefore many criminal and administrative measures for this. Freed terrorists without legal residence in the Netherlands may nevertheless be in the sight of those intelligence and security services within the framework of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. The Return and Departure Service is also working as early as possible on the departure of those persons and now keeps an eye on that group through intensive case management by specially trained professionals. But then it remains crucial, let me say it aloud, to continue to invest in keeping an eye on those people, in normal Dutch, and also to strengthen the common approach on that point. Really, just, keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u101	That's exactly where I got mixed signals. So I'm glad the Minister says so, but I want to be very sharp. If a person has been convicted and his nationality has been taken away, so that he only has the nationality of another country, I assume he is summoned by the Return and Departure Service to leave the country. Is that person in custody until then, yes or no? Who is ultimately responsible for following such a person at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u102	The first, of course, is very much due to the circumstances of that special case. I have just tried to explain the second. In this special group, our services have a role in this, but also the parties that have this person in the relevant local case consultation. Then, for example, the police may also exercise extra control over it. This is the important point that Mrs Bikker is talking about, and that we are monitoring this group very closely, but also others who come from detention and are still a potential threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u103	Following up on that. I do not have the impression that it is being discussed at the moment, but at the time when it is being discussed, I would really like the Minister to inform the Chamber on this, including on how it is taking shape at that time. There is a strong involvement of the Chamber on this dossier and also on the previous legislation on the withdrawal of nationality. I'm getting varying signals about the legal title to track someone like that. It's gotta be airtight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u104	"Waterproof." This just has to be really, really solid. I can promise you we'll do a confidential briefing for your room. You can hear me using firm terms. I say the same for the people who watch. I'm not all gonna use words like "monitoring" and stuff, but I'm just saying "watching" hard, because those people are a threat. Let's be very clear about that. As a ruler, I have expressed reservations on a number of occasions about the extent to which all kinds of deradicalisation processes really produce results or not. That may be true, but we still have to keep a very close eye on that. If we go into that more concretely, your Chamber will understand that we can do it with each other in a confidential setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u105	I have two questions about supervision. The Minister says a few times now: just keep a very close eye on it. I also think "monitors" is a stupid word, so "surveillance" is indeed better, but you do need a lot of capacity for that with all the services, i.e. the search services and the intelligence services. Is that okay right now? Does the Minister understand that I have some doubts as to whether our services can handle this, especially when it comes to large numbers? This is what I'm going to do right now. I also asked the question: what if someone is not ultimately convicted? In the case we are dealing with here, the lady is brought back because she will be prosecuted. Maybe it's a hypothetical question, but I'm gonna ask him anyway, because that could be important. If, in the end, it does not come to a conviction, then I think there is no criminal law framework. Then what are the possibilities of keeping a close eye on someone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u106	Let me just chop it up. The first is that we have very good services. I remember saying that already in November 2017 in the Chamber, following the case that has become known as the case of the desk clerk. Mr Van Nispen remembers that case. Minister: This means that we will certainly be looking at this with each other in the future within the departments concerned. This means that we will certainly be looking at this with each other in the future within the departments concerned. That is certainly the case for this year, but you must always look ahead on these issues. Mr Van Nispen has tabled a motion which has been adopted and on which I have written a letter on investment in the criminal justice chain. In essence, the subject in question is of course also a good investment in everything that is going on in the area of Ct and should remain possible. I don't know what the second question was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u107	I will repeat it, but I also had a follow-up question. The Threat Statue 54 states that several convicted terrorists will be released this year, including male returners. So the question is: how is this to be done when it comes to higher numbers? We know that all services are under pressure, but what if the numbers increase? It is incredibly intensive to keep an eye on someone as closely as the Minister repeatedly said. I'd like to hear more about that. My second question was the question I asked before: what if something does not come to a conviction, namely the case where this is concerned? There could be evidence problems. Of course, nobody hopes that, and it may be a hypothetical question, but I would like to know what happens if there is no conviction and no criminal law framework. So what are the possibilities of monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u108	Then we have the approach as described in the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands for the group of 500 plausible jihadists. That approach focuses very much on a lot of supervision and a lot of looking at what measures can be taken, and above all I refer to that term over and over again as monitoring on the basis of continuous threat analyses per person. To make it clear to those who have sometimes been somewhat concerned about the NCTV's basis: these are threat analyses made from services, police and others who have been equipped to do so. Now back to the follow-up question on the first point. I think we should realise that the services are doing well. We can handle it right now, and we will have to see what we can expect in the coming years and what it may mean to make extra efforts in the field of counter-terrorism. Anyone who thought that ISIS had actually been there two or three years ago must realise that counter-terrorism must still be high on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. I now have a factsheet with figures as Mrs Van der Plas asked. I'm looking at her through you, but we could copy it. I can read it to you, but that might be a little tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u109	For the sake of time, it really can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u110	No. So it should be copied 150 times. I'm just gonna put it right here. Mr President, I have a few things to say. I have just said a few words about the returners' threat, and Mr Van Haga asked about it. It is, and remains, a very complex issue. The risks are in the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands and we will always focus on those people with a personalised analysis. Mr Van Nispen has already referred to it, but there is a chance that some travellers will return to the Netherlands in the long term, without us doing anything about it. The majority of them are of Dutch nationality only. Any withdrawal of Dutch citizenship does not offer any solace there. There is also the possibility that the Kurdish Authority might at some point have been called upon to open the gates of the camps. Finally, there are occasional escapes from these camps. I think I have already said enough about returners as a threat to the Netherlands in the context of repatriation. Mr Van Haga's point: what do you say to the lawyer? First of all, I'm not saying anything to the lawyer, because I'm not a party to a case. Let's get that straight. I just said there's three things going on. The first is whether a judge will say in a next case: we think you should do your best, government, or else we should end the criminal case. In the meantime, that is the second, we are looking at the same fixed criteria that we have always examined in recent years: security in the region, international diplomatic relations, the security of the persons concerned and, around that, national security. Then there is a third point, for those who claim that this is a precedent. The Supreme Court made a very clear statement on this last year. At the end of March, in The Hague, I believe that Mr Van Haga also referred to this point in a similar ruling, in which the considerations of the Supreme Court were essentially repeated on this point. Those considerations are that the State is about national security and foreign policy and that the judge has only a reluctant test to take. That statement by the Supreme Court really accurately dissects all the arguments that have been made in the area of precedent and what is more. It is true, therefore, that it is always customary and that all interests are carefully considered. Mr Van Nispen asked about the detention capacity in the special terrorist departments. We do so in the Netherlands in order to prevent the spread of radical ideas and recruitment within detention and to monitor contacts with the network outside. The radicalized detainees are also discussed in the MAR, in which at least DJI, parole and others participate. The capacity there is sufficient for the current drop-down return. In 2020 the capacity was expanded, including PI Zwolle. That was a question from Mrs Bikker. Furthermore, the specialised terrorism, extremism and radicalisation team of the probation team have sufficient capacity to continue to carry out this work. If there were to be a group-by-group return without us having anything to do with it, then there would always be preparation by the partners jointly responsible, including, for example, the Children's Protection Council, the NCTV and the specialised institutions, to anticipate it. Mr. Chairman. Then the deradicalization. Mr Van Nispen asked about that. There is a lot of work being done on so-called disengagement. This is aimed at behavior change and where possible, where the conviction changes, there is also a commitment to deradicalisation. Inmates can receive guidance from experts, psychologists, imams or specialized agencies. There too, there is always a tailor-made approach from the MAR. I have previously promised your Chamber a letter, together with my colleague Dekker of Legal Protection, on how to deal with deradicalisation in detention and its effectiveness. That was in the plenary debate of 12 November 2020, which I had with the Prime Minister on the terrorist act in France. Mr President, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u111	Is the Minister ready for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done. I have two more things to answer and then I'm through. Mr. Chairman. In connection with the trial, Mrs Van der Werf asked me whether I would make the most of my efforts to try and punish all ISIS women. Or is the minister waiting for him to be corrected by the judge again? That's an incorrect presentation of things. There has been no correction by the judge. The judge has said from a certain point of time: we would like you as a state to see what is possible to bring people back. At some point, the judge has said further: now we are getting to the point where there will be a different end to criminal proceedings. In civil proceedings, the Supreme Court ruled that the State has no obligation to bring back Dutch women and children. If that thought on correction continues, then I would really recommend that statement again for reading. It's about preventing impunity. Each case shall be considered and assessed separately. The security of those involved, the security of the area, international relations and, finally, national security will always be the subject of this case-to-case approach. Maybe I can finish it, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann said that persons of Dutch nationality always have access to the Netherlands. That is true, but they cannot so much rely on Article 8 of the ECHR. When non-Dutch people invoke Article 8, there is always a balance of interests, in which the interests of the State are set against the interests of the foreigner. Mr President, so far. I've had it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u113	Very good. So this was your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u115	I asked why it took so long before the lady was finally brought here after several requests from the court. So it wasn't about anything else that the minister just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u116	I've taken that point of the judge's correction literally. I'll straighten that out, because that's just not right. It is also not entirely fair, since first the court and then the Supreme Court supported what happened. What took you so long? The judge has indicated at some point: we really think that the person should be in the criminal proceedings now. When judging by those three principles it was established that it was not safe to enter that area and that no business could be done by international relations,... You saw, President, that in May or early June 2019 it was a Whitsun weekend with the French and could therefore pick up two children. Now, after a great deal of information with a number of European countries, there has been the opportunity to do this mission. That's just hard, and it's still hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u117	Let there be no misunderstanding, it is, of course, very good that you finally responded to this and that this was decided in consultation with the Prime Minister. But it has something to do with my previous question. In the hearing, of course, we already understood that there is a whole range of countries that have already brought many more people back. So it was possible to do that before. I am not asking it so much because I think that this question was just there, but we already know from your own timeline that these requests had already been made very often. In the end, it was only decided a few months ago, whereas many European colleagues have done so before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u118	This is a distortion of reality. I'm going to argue with that a little harder. What happened is this. I started in February 2019 and you will also see in the debates with your Chamber, in the general discussions today called committee debates, and also in correspondence and in oral questions, that we are indeed trying to make progress. Let me give you a concrete example. My colleague Mr Kaag's predecessor, Mr Blok, then, as Foreign Minister to the Iraqi government in spring 2019, managed that if she were to be brought to Iraqi territory, the Iraqis would not immediately take her into custody and fall under the system there. That was one of the orders, if I may call it that, which the judge had given us. That really took a while before that was done. That's right. It's not a matter of... The word "rapido" sounds a bit back, but that's really not how it works. Certainly not in this difficult, unbearable matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u119	I had asked it at the very beginning of the Minister's speech, and the Minister had promised to come back to it in more detail. I do not think that the two elements that are problematic in this debate are properly appointed by the Minister. That is one element of so-called impunity. What does the Minister think about the return of terrorists who then get a very low sentence and are therefore very quickly on the streets and are therefore dangerous? Then the Minister has that on his conscience. He said something about keeping up with it and all, but yes, of course, that's an insecure area. This impunity and the low penalty is therefore point one. The second element, which is really an essential problem that has now been created, is the precedent. In his speech, the Minister always talks about the ruling of the Supreme Court and the judge. But that was all before this minister and his colleagues brought this terrorist back. As a result, a number of other terrorists are knocking on the Minister's door and saying: 'Hey, Minister, I want to be brought back by you now too.' And the Minister will not be able to stop that legally, all say experts who are at least as smart as the Minister, legally speaking. So what does the Minister now think of this precedent that he and this cabinet have caused?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u120	First of all, on those low penalties, at least, those referred to by Mr Markuszower low. As a society, we have developed criminal law together. Your parliament, successive cabinets. This leads to criminal offences and penalties imposed on them, as it stands in the law. In criminal law, an important principle is nulla poena sine empty, i.e. you will not be punished if that is not properly laid down in law. What these punishments are depends on how we judge each other as a society. If we believe that our criminal law is at some point lacking in that kind of thing, then that is what we need to talk about. To give you an example: the entire Code of Criminal Procedure, about how the whole criminal process is going, my department has been preparing with the help of all partners over the past few years, so that there will be a whole new Code of Criminal Procedure. If Mr Markuszower were to say 'we must review our entire system of penalties in the law', he could, of course, bring that up. How the judge then judges in a concrete case, I keep saying: we have an independent judge. We have a judiciary that is very high international standards. The penalties handed out in the Netherlands, including for this type of serious crime, are not very different or much lower than in other Western European countries. Otherwise, as has been said, we have an independent judge. Finally, I come to the question of precedent. I have to say that I have gone into this in great detail. I have explained that the case law of the Supreme Court has been very clear in this regard. There could be more cases where the criminal court says: we really think that more action should be taken now. But as a cabinet, we continue to say that whether we want to comply with such a request from the judge, on the penalty that the procedure ends differently, will depend on the security of the area at that time, on international relations and on the security of all those involved. I don't know who all these scientists are. I do not write to myself as highly as Mr Markuszower does, but I think it is kind of him to say all that. I do not know who these scholars are, but I do not see that precedent when I read the judgment of the Supreme Court and the judgments of the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u121	I have a brief reaction to the latter and to the first. For example, I refer to the latter as Professor Geert-Jan Knoops. The Minister refers to that Supreme Court again, but that's all before the Minister set a precedent, so that's quite a problematic story. As far as those penalties are concerned, the PVV believes that our criminal law is indeed not limited to high penalties. We have also made a lot of proposals to amend that. But that doesn't even play here, because these terrorists weren't here. You brought it here. Our criminal law wouldn't even have had to be used for these crimes if this minister hadn't brought these criminals to the Netherlands. So we have a big problem. Indeed, our criminal law has not been used to punish this kind of horrible act appropriately. That is another reason why the Minister should not have brought these terrorists to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u122	We have also punished other people in our criminal law who were suspected of war crimes or terrorist offences in the past, so I do not see that our criminal law or our criminal justice would not have been used for that. I have pointed out quite extensively and repeatedly that we simply have international obligations to do so here too. Maybe that hasn't been clear enough after all. If, on the basis of its autonomous power, the Public Prosecutor decides to prosecute, there is rightly the point that people who have committed terrible crimes should also be punished for that. Moreover, I fully endorse that view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u124	There's a question I don't have the answer to yet. This is about taking away Dutch citizenship after the criminal trial has been completed. I cannot imagine that the Minister did not say anything about this. May I ask for confirmation that it is true that after the criminal trial has been completed with irrevocable conviction, the procedure will automatically start to take away that Dutchity? How does it work? Then there is the combination of Article 14.4 on Dutch citizenship and an undesirable statement? You're gonna be expelled after punishment? If this were to be the case in the case of those who returned to the Netherlands on 5 June, what about children who came along?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u125	In three parts, then. As for the first part, I say yes. In the event of an irrevocable conviction for terrorist offences and a dual nationality, the action under Article 14.2 shall follow. I assume and have seen that it will almost always be allocated. But, of course, there may be another situation that is casuistically different. The second point is that the person in question will then leave the country voluntarily, or that every effort will be made to make him leave the country in a lawful way, of course. As far as the children's issue is concerned, I must honestly admit that I do not know that for a moment. That's my Secretary of State's portfolio, so I'll come back to that in the second term, if that's okay with Mrs Michon. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to browse those thick folders, but I'm sure you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u126	Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u128	Thank you for your contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u130	With great pleasure, we are now going to listen to the Foreign Minister. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a brief introduction and then I would like to continue with the questions that have been put to me in the field of foreign affairs. I would also like to make a brief comment on the allegations made in this debate to me and, therefore, to this cabinet. I deeply regret this. I cast this far from me. But I would also like to thank those Members of Parliament who have objected to this. So much for this point. Mr. Chairman. Mr Grapperhaus has already mentioned many elements in his contribution, so I am not going to repeat them, of course. I would like to highlight the importance of impunity and the efforts to bring about trial in the region. The recent repatriation mission, which has been carefully and long-termly prepared over a period of months, was aimed at preventing impunity and, as has often been mentioned, fits within the cabinet policy to assess each case on its own merits. In doing so, the international relations, the security situation in the region and the security of those involved are taken into account, I mention the Dutch, the military, the security people, and the consequences for national security. That was the case with the operation on 5 June, and it will not be different in the future. The government's policy is therefore unchanged. Then, as an introduction, I would like to make a few comments on the state of affairs regarding international trial, but I have a lot of details that I will take into account in the questions. Like your Chamber, the Cabinet attaches great importance to preventing impunity. This has been discussed in detail. This is certainly true of the members of ISIS who, during their reign of terror, committed the most horrible crimes against different populations, as we all know. The images are still clearly on the retina. We have a duty to ensure that these ISIS criminals are prosecuted and tried for this. Such serious crimes include justice. Mr Grapperhaus has reported on this in detail. Punishment of the perpetrators will not ease the pain and trauma that many have experienced. Then I also think of the terrible suffering caused, for example, by the Jezidis. It won't take any of that away. But the victims of ISIS are entitled to justice, satisfaction and truth. That must not be taken away from them. For the Netherlands, this has always been a guiding factor in the commitment to trial: where applicable in the Netherlands, and in the region as long as the ISIS fighters are there. That is where the crimes were committed, and that is where the evidence is, also because the victims of ISIS are among Kurds, Christians, Shia and Jezidis. Those are, for the most part, in Syria and Iraq and thus in the region. But effective and legitimate international trial is only possible with the consent of Syria and Iraq or with a mandate from the UN Security Council. There is still no mandate on all these fronts. The Netherlands is trying and will continue to try, my colleague Mr Blok, my predecessor, from the first minute onwards, to create sufficient political support to enable international trial. We did so during the UN Security Council ministerial session, but at every stage we have seen that some Members, I am naming them: the Russian Federation and China refuse to cooperate in international trials. Without that mandate through the UN Security Council, that trail is very difficult. In particular, these two claim that trial is an obstacle to a solution to the conflict in Syria. For us, that is the other way round, let us be very clear. Justice is at the basis of lasting peace, including in Syria. Hence the Netherlands, together with a number of European partners, has examined other regional trails of trial. However, international trial in semiautonomous parts of Iraq or Syria without the consent of these States is not legally possible. Also, the right to a fair trial, detention in accordance with international standards and the possibility of consular assistance cannot be guaranteed. The cabinet has been very clear about this from day one in all the debates and the communication towards the Chamber. These are standards that we do not want and cannot let go of, even when it comes to the trial of ISIS. It doesn't fit here: if it's convenient, we'll stick to it, otherwise we won't. This also goes against and undermines our fight against abuse of power and arbitrariness. You have often spoken about this with my predecessor, Minister Blok, and, of course, with Minister Grapperhaus. We remain committed to trial in and through Iraq of ISIS fighters currently in detention in Northeast Syria, but it still has a lot of success for the arm. For example, the Iraqi Government in its own country faces immense challenges, as you know, in the political and socio-economic field, but also in the security field, apart from the 30,000 Iraqis who are stuck in North-East Syria and will return to Iraq. The priorities of Iraq, as you can imagine, are unfortunately not immediately involved in the trial of foreign ISIS fighters trapped in North-East Syria. We do not share that assessment, but it is the political reality with which we have to act. What further complicates the matter is that Iraq only wants foreign ISIS fighters to be tried if they have committed crimes in Iraq. Iraq also wants to maintain the death penalty and, as I have just said, do not allow full consular assistance. The latter two conditions are not acceptable either to us or to our European partners. So it still takes the necessary discussions and research into whether we can come to a comparison. Unfortunately, it remains a long-term process. At the meeting of the anti-ISIS coalition in Italy on Monday, I again addressed Minister Hussein, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Iraq, about the importance which the Netherlands attaches to trial in the region. I asked Iraq to take a serious look at this and continue to explore the possibilities with us. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going on to the questions that have been asked. Mrs Michon's question and Mr Van der Staaij's question was whether the road to an international tribunal was finally closed. I would like to say that it is not, but I would like to say that it is very difficult. I just described that. We are faced with a veto by Russia and China in relation to the UN Security Council, of which we need a resolution. We also have no willingness to bring other variations of tribunals. We have looked at options such as the Rwanda Tribunal, the Nuremberg variant and the Lockerbie variant in previous phases. All paths have been walked by the cabinet, by Minister Blok, and for all kinds of reasons they have not been possible. A referral of the situation in Syria to the ICC by the Security Council is not a viable map either. So, in the short term, I am pessimistic, I say to Mrs Michon, but the stakes remain. I told you, it's been in conversation on Monday. I would also like to assure this Chamber that I will again have talks with my European colleagues to examine, on the basis of the meetings we had on Monday, how they assess the possibilities and whether alternatives are still possible. Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Kuik asked why there is no full commitment to trial in the region. As you know, we are busy with this. It may not always be visible in the Netherlands, but there is a lot of talk about this and a lot of work is being done on this. We're doing that bilaterally, as I just mentioned. But we also depend on Iraq in this case. In Syria, trial cannot take place. We have neither relations with the Assad regime nor access to the area itself. Moreover, the rule of law should be recognised there, and this is not happening. Mrs Bikker asked what possibilities the cabinet sees for trial in the region. I think I just named that. What are the efforts to bring people to justice there and what developments are there? I think this is the same question, but in a different way. We will continue to do so. I have just said that I will return to the discussions with my European colleagues, but from the same perspective, namely international legal standards and a fair trial. We have to try to come to an agreement. If I have to make an assessment of this in relation to Iraq, then here's what I'm saying. Iraq is now on its way to elections later this year. I can therefore imagine that even now that the political attention of an already fragile government coalition is focusing on the situation in its own country, and that this is an additional burden on the government, even within the framework it has set itself. But we're moving on. Mrs Bikker also asked about the implementation of Mr Voordewind's motion on the recognition of genocide by ISIS fighters, the motion which states that ISIS fighters should be prosecuted and tried for committing genocide, and which calls on the government to generate support in the Security Council for the recognition of genocide by ISIS fighters. As Mrs Bikker knows, we have committed ourselves to this in the one year that the Netherlands was a member of the UN Security Council. We have also organised special meetings, so-called side events, with the intention of organising and mobilising a number of countries in order to speak out. We strongly condemn the crimes of ISIS. Ethnic and religious minorities, including Jezidis, Christians and non-Sunnitic Muslims, have suffered very badly in the areas controlled by IS. Most of the locals, Sunni and Non-Sunni, everyone who was not affiliated to IS has suffered. As far as the cabinet is concerned, sufficient factual information is available on the atrocities committed against Jezidis, to be able to judge from the legal perspective that there is most likely to be blame for very serious international crimes, including genocide and crimes against humanity. It should be formally adopted through the UN Security Council in a binding resolution, or in a ruling of an international court and criminal court. At present we do not have the necessary political support for this either, but we continue to work for the evidence collection and for the establishment of the evidence bank of the IIIM, the international impartial and independent mechanism of the United Nations research team. With this we want to lay down the responsibility for crimes committed by Daesh or ISIL or IS or ISIS; unfortunately it is all the same group. So if we come to the moment of international trial and the mechanism, or of national trial, so trial in the region, the Netherlands will ensure that there is sufficient evidence with other partners. That's an important pre-stage. Mrs Van der Werf of D66 asked what we can do for the 2,800 jezidi children who are supposedly in Turkey. We have also taken note of that terrible message. Of course, it is not just the missing Jezidis, but also cases of kidnapped Jezidi children found in Turkey. We know that the Turkish security services are working very hard to track down the children. There's cooperation with relevant authorities, but I'd like my staff to find out if there's anything we can do for the office to rescue the kidnapped Jezidis. We will see what the Netherlands can do in that. What can the cabinet do internationally for jezidi children in the region? In Iraq, the cabinet, I say in the direction of Mrs Bikker through you, Mr President, has arranged early funding, with special attention to the Jezidis. There are a number of programmes through the Stability Fund, which this Chamber is also aware of. Then we are thinking of psychosocial aid, but of course we are also thinking of helping victims of gender-based violence. We finance education and we also support income-generating projects for Jezid families, often single women. I would also like to look at extending the funding of these projects so that we can ensure continuity. That's the least we can do, I'd say. We encourage other partners to follow us. Mrs Bikker asked what we could do in the short and longer term for children who are still in the camps. As a fellow man, as a mother or father, it is, of course, poignant to see children growing up in distressing conditions, in camps where there are shortages, which is due to their parents. Children are the victims of the choice of their parents that they are not guilty of themselves. They need security and security to be able to develop normally. Neither is mentioned in the shelter camps in Northeast Syria. We are helping to meet humanitarian needs. We do so through a number of Dutch organisations of the DRA, but also through the United Nations and the International Red Cross. Of course, we want the organisations that work there to have access to do their work on the ground. It's up to the organizations to decide. I assume, also in the context of reception in the region for other reasons, that this will always be taken up, including by the successor in the area of development cooperation. I'm gonna say that with the Foreign Office hat on, Mr. Chairman. A question from Mr Kuzu was: why weren't the children removed in 2019 and on what grounds was it decided not to take children out of camps, what neighbouring countries do? I repeat what I just said: children of extravagants are the victims, especially of their parents' choice. Parents are primarily responsible for the children. As has already been said on many occasions, the entire discussion with Mr.Grapperhaus is also taking place in the Cabinet on a case-by-case basis to assess whether repatriation is an option, just as we did in the return action in 2019 and last June: operations, I would remind you once again, which were the subject of judgments by Dutch judges. The appalling situation in the camps is an important consideration for European partners, such as Belgium, Germany, Finland, Denmark, Austria and Norway, to bring back vulnerable children and take mothers with them if that is not possible, because the Syrian Kurds demand it. But the cabinet has its own line and makes its own assessment. Then there was a question from Mr Kuzu: is the Minister prepared to remove children under 12 years of age as a matter of urgency in connection with a major risk of radicalisation? As I have just said, every time there is a trade-off. There is no change of policy. However, I note that during the meeting of the anti-ISIS coalition in Rome this Monday, concerns were expressed by several countries, including countries in the region, that children are smuggled out of camps and trained by ISIS and that extremely radicalised ISIS women use violence against fellow prisoners who, in their view, are not sufficiently strict in their teachings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u132	I understand very well that in any individual case a different consideration can be made. At the same time, on the basis of the figures from the Council for the Protection of Children, we see that indoctrination can be much more effective in children aged between 12 and 16. Surely that should be the reason why, even for the national security of the Netherlands, more effort should be made on this, generically?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u133	I believe that in Mr Grapperhaus' term the issues of impunity and the court order have been explicitly mentioned. There is no change in cabinet policy. We recognise, of course, the risks expressed by many countries on Monday, during the anti-ISIS coalition, also by the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'm just gonna approach it from a different perspective. I have also heard Minister Grapperhaus' reaction to impunity, and I share it to a large extent, but this is a different point of view. That angle is: what does this mean for the future? We can express our concerns about the future, but I believe that the Dutch cabinet can also do something about it on its own. If we have these concerns and indeed hear the Americans about a vision of the future that we can worry about, then that seems to me to be a reason for the Dutch cabinet to anticipate them, to overcome those concerns about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u135	My answer to Mr Kuzu's question does not change. This has always been the basis of government policy, and that is unchanged. Mrs Kuik asked how the victims were supported. In particular, she asked about the recognition of genocide, as might be the case in Belgium. One thing is important to highlight anyway: according to our information, the Belgian Parliament has recognised genocide in this case, but not the Belgian Government. I do not want to fight with Mrs Kuik about this, but it is perhaps an important point. I think everyone's focused on justice for the victims of ISIS. That is why accountability or the fight against impunity is so important. We can never take away the pain. As I said earlier, evidence is the most important practical but also a forward-looking step that the Netherlands has been able to take in this case in addition to continuing to examine all options and to continue to examine whether and under what conditions trial could take place in the region or through another tribunal. For evidence is the basis of the future trial. Then there was a question from Mrs Kuik: what does the departure of the Americans say about future security in the area? I'm not a military expert. Through my leadership in the chemical disarmament mission in Syria, I know Syria relatively well. We can see that the Americans are avoiding, but will still retain a presence. Of course, they have "capacity in the region," as they call it. It makes the situation even more worrying and even more unpredictable. It also presents the risk that there will be even greater mobility of a number of armed actors, state actors and non-state actors, of course the terrorist organisations, many of which are still present. Mr Van Nispen asked how the victims were dealt with. I have just appointed what we are doing in the humanitarian field and what we will continue to do for the Jezidis and, of course, on the path of justice. I assume that this also applies to the future cabinet. Mrs Kathmann asked how the situation of children would be weighed. We just discussed that, Mr. Chairman. There are two mechanisms to secure evidence. Mrs Kathmann asked if we still have a task and how successful the collaborations have been. We are working closely with the IIIM Evidence Bank, which I mentioned earlier, and with the United Nations' own team. We are contributing financially and, of course, we support these two mechanisms at political level when this is discussed. That is what is being asked of the Netherlands at the moment. But if there is a request for additional support or technical expertise we have in the Netherlands too, then the outgoing cabinet will look very favourably at that; I am sure. This is it for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u136	Highly appreciated. Then I'd like to continue with the second term. Or do the rulers perhaps need to stretch their legs for a while? Two minutes? Then I'll suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u137	We will continue with the second term of the debate on ISIS women. I should be the first to give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the Group of the Party for Freedom. I think one minute is enough for everyone. Mr Markuszower is going to show that that is possible. "One second," calls the Minister of Justice! I think that's an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u138	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll get it. I'll have to read my motions right away. Well, I guess I'll start with the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risks associated with the return of travellers to the Netherlands have been described several times in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to repatriate any more travellers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Markuszower, Mr Wilders, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van Haga and Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-595]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u139	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Muslim terrorists are responsible for the most cruel form of violence, mass murder and destruction we know;]] [[Whereas, with the admission of Muslim terrorists to the Netherlands, death and destruction is at the same time imported to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government not to allow any terrorist, anywhere in the world, with any nationality, to enter our country.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Markuszower, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga and Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-596]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you. That was really fast. Then Mrs. Michon-Derkzen. I hope she'll be okay in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I thank both ministers for their answers. I thought it was a good and solid debate on the substance. This is also due to the good letter we received last Friday. I would like more of those letters. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government's policy on the repatriation of IS travellers is supported by a majority of the House of Representatives;]] [[having noted that on 18 June 2020 and 9 March 2021 the Cabinet informed the Lower House of a possible repatriation;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet at various times with various letters informs the House of Representatives about the threat posed by the travellers, the status quo of the travellers, the situation in Syria and the surrounding region, the topicality of the trial in the region and many other related issues;]] [[considers that it is important to inform the House of Representatives on this subject in full and periodically, so that the House of Representatives is able to hold a good debate;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to inform the House of Representatives in full twice a year on the subject of extravagants and to address the (status quo and nationality of) extravagants, the topicality of the trial in the region, the topicality of criminal matters, including the post-detention approach and the approach and commitment to the children of IS travellers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-597]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u143	Then I have two more motions. I'm just gonna read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Syrians have left for terrorist territory, thereby rejecting the rule of law and joining IS, which has committed the most terrible crimes;]] [[noting that the Dutch State is right to have them prosecuted, but that, after being subpoenaed by the D.A., Syria attempted to enforce physical presence in the Dutch courtroom by appealing to Article 6 of the ECHR, which led the State to repatriate in one specific case in order to avoid the termination of the criminal proceedings in question;]] [[noting that repatriation of Syrians poses direct and indirect threats to those involved in the operation there and to the national security of Dutch society as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate alternative ways of respecting the right to a fair trial, for example by using digital means, so that physical presence in criminal proceedings is not required for successful prosecution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-598]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u144	Then my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Syrians are guilty of terrorist and/or war crimes;]] [[noting that it cannot at present be ruled out that the cabinet is bringing a Syrian back to Syria in very unique and exceptional circumstances, for trial in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that terrorist offences are so serious that minimum penalties are justified in order to do justice to the victims and to protect Dutch society;]] [[Whereas other countries, including Germany, have minimum penalties;]] [[considers that the period of detention of the suspect outside the Netherlands should not be included in the penalty;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the possibility of imposing minimum penalties for terrorist offences;]] [[calls on the Government to include other administrative and criminal measures in this development, including in any case:]] [[following the conviction of a terrorist offence, automatic imposition of a measure under the Long-Term Supervision Act, including where the terrorist offences were committed before 1 January 2018;]] [[the removal of the limitation period in the event of the preparation of a terrorist offence referred to in Article 96 of the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship;]] [[and to inform the Court of Auditors of this for the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u145	Do I hear the VVD now pleading for a new system: no more maximum sentences, but minimum sentences? Do they say: the judge can't do that customization himself properly; we know better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u146	We had quite a debate on this earlier today. These crimes are very specific. The evidence collection is very difficult, because the crimes were not committed in the Netherlands, but there. That is why a large part of the Chamber wants to try the perpetrators there as well. The burden of proof is over there. So I do not want to see such a danger to national security being put back on the street after a few years, as is often advocated here. So I want these unsubs to spend a minimum number of years in prison, because we see that it's disappointing how many years they've been behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u147	Just in the last week, the news came out that the prosecution, in a case involving jihadism, demanded two years, but imposed six years on the court. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the judge is very well placed to consider himself, in that particular case, what punishment someone deserves. My question to the VVD is: don't you trust this to the judge? Is that actually the message from this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u148	The Minister has confirmed that the two offences that usually occur in punishing these perpetrators have a maximum of 10 years and 15 years respectively. The penalties imposed are a number of years. I was a little more positive about that than Mr Markuszower, but that is very little. That is partly because of the burden of proof. With the motion on minimum penalties, I try to do justice to the feelings of victims on the one hand, so that perpetrators are behind bars for a minimum number of years, and on the other hand the need to monitor these perpetrators for a whole number of years, because we want to know what kind of meat we have in the cockpit when they get out of prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u149	This is a very fundamental debate, which is certainly coming out of the blue today. If we want to do justice to these victims, then another step could be that we think we should also do justice to victims of murder and manslaughter in the Netherlands, or rape. This is apparently a new position of the VVD. I'm really wondering where that came from and if that's very well thought out. Was there any advice on this? I have another question that is linked to that right away. Mrs Michon was just talking about problems of proof: it is so hard to prove, so if you can bring someone to justice, you have to pay a heavy penalty. I'm also in favour of severe punishment, but what's this gonna do to solve the evidence problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u150	You ask two questions. Let me translate. You are asking whether it is not too wild to table this motion here at 5 p.m. It is a consistent position of my party to seek minimum punishment for these crimes. Your second point was: what is this doing about the evidence problems? Because there is a risk of lean evidence, and that does not mean ten to fifteen years that the Code of Criminal Law allows, but far lower penalties, my group wants to ensure with these minimum sentences that these perpetrators are really behind bars for a whole number of years. That is only in the exceptional case that they come to the Netherlands at all, because, as we discussed in detail here in the debate, I do not want them to come here. Judge them in the region and take them away from the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u151	Clear. Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs van der Werf from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, we must never leave the victims of ISIS unnamed in this debate. Because many of them are still desperate to find their kidnapped children. That is why I welcome the commitment of Minister Kaag to investigate what the Netherlands can do to find these children; perhaps we can help the Kidnapped Yezidis Rescue Office. Given the share of European and Dutch Syrians in the atrocities committed by these Jezidis, we have a responsibility in this too. Because doing justice to the victims also means punishing the perpetrators. This means that we must do everything we can to prevent impunity. That's why D66 is filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that travellers co-responsible for the atrocities of IS should not avoid their punishment;]] [[Whereas none of the options of trial in the region that has been explored in recent years offers prospects for trial in accordance with international standards respected by the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, in the absence of repatriation for trial in the Netherlands, criminal proceedings against extravagant persons are likely to be terminated;]] [[Whereas, after the end of a criminal case, prosecution and criminal supervision are no longer possible, thereby significantly increasing the threat to national security of these persons;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to ensure that these terrorist suspects do not avoid their punishment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Werf and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr President, I can assure you that more motions are coming. There's also a bee from JA21. I thank both ministers for the answers. I think we're still arguing about getting the women back from the IS area. We will support the motions relating to non-retrieving, withdrawal of passports where this is possible and putting pressure on the international community to try women there if necessary, but not in the Netherlands. It is very important, I think, what the CDA and the VVD are going to do. I am particularly looking at Mrs Michon-Derkzen. You said the other day, in the sandbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u154	No, no, you shouldn't talk to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u155	No, I'm just repeating it. You said "in the sandbox" the other day, and now it is: minimum punishments and all that kind of stories. It's all a bit milder won from your side. I'm a little disappointed in that. So I hope for the Netherlands that on Tuesday, when we vote with the CDA and the VVD on the right, we can change something to reverse the tragedy that even more people from the IS area come to the Netherlands and are actively brought here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u156	Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr. Chairman. The motion, indeed. You can already feel it. It is true that it deals with the Dutch character of terror women. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, pursuant to Article 14 (4) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, the cabinet has the power, in the interests of national security, to withdraw the Dutch identity of persons who are outside the Kingdom and who have joined organisations participating in a national or international armed conflict and pose a threat to our national security;]] [[noting that this applies to persons who have travelled to Islamic State and are currently abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of all persons residing abroad who have travelled to Islamic State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr President. From this place also congratulations to the colleagues who made a maiden speech. It's been a while, but I want to remind you of that. And thank you to the rulers for their proper response. Mr. Chairman. Justice must be done and security must be promoted here as well. That is precisely why I also support the motion which will be tabled by one of my fellow Members, Mr Cliffhanger! In order to promote international trial, I welcome the Minister's commitment to further inform this Chamber on how people who have been convicted have served a sentence and whose nationality is unexploited are being followed further. The Chamber will be informed of this further in a closed briefing. Mr. Chairman. I was thinking about the victims, because that's the most horrible thing. Because of what happened, people are drawn for life. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the need for Jezidi women who are victims of trafficking in human beings by IS terrorists is still high, particularly among those women who have had children as a result of rape;]] [[Whereas the cabinet implementing the Voordewind c.s. motion for a resolution (35570-V, No. 47) has previously made money available to SEED, a local organisation providing care for victims of trafficking in human beings;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to continue this support so that the reception of Jezidi women and children who cannot return to their communities, and of other vulnerable IS victims, can continue as long as necessary, and extend it with humanitarian assistance for comparable existing shelters in Northeast Syria;]] [[calls on the government to support, wherever possible, the reconstruction of Sinjar and, where necessary, to cooperate diplomatically with the Iraqi Government in order to strengthen the legal position of these Jezidi women vis-à-vis their children, so that the children can be legally accepted as part of the Jezidi community,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-602]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for the answer and sufficient reading of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that IS belongs to organisations designated by the Cabinet which pose a threat to national security;]] [[noting that, pursuant to Article 14, fourth paragraph of the Reichswet op het Nederlanderschap, the Minister of Justice and Security, in the interest of national security, may withdraw the Netherlandserschap of a person outside the Kingdom if his conduct shows that he has joined an organisation as mentioned in the decision establishing the list of organisations which pose a threat to national security;]] [[Whereas caliphates pose a major threat to national security;]] [[Whereas repatriation is not necessary for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum efforts to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of IS-goers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Kuik, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-603]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the directors for the answers they have given in the first term. A number of motions from the group of DENK. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet indicated that all routes for trial in the region of Dutch citizens who have joined ISIS are accompanied by complications;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts on all possibilities of trial in the region, as long as this is in line with international law and within international legal frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the risk of indoctrination and the internalisation of terrorist ideologies is greatest in the age phase 12-16 years according to the Council for the Protection of the Child;]] [[Considering that in 2019 90% were under 9 years of age and that the Cabinet still has one year to intervene before reaching the crucial age phase, thereby increasing the risk of indoctrination;]] [[Whereas the recall of these young children is in the interests of our national security;]] [[calls on the Government to repatriate children under 12 years of age, where possible, because of an increased risk of indoctrination and internalisation of terrorist ideologies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-604]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you. I call Mrs Koekkoek from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I will read only the motions. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch security organisations, the AIVD, STVD and NCTV, find that the recovery of IS women and their children is the safest option;]] [[Whereas the children concerned, including babies, toddlers and toddlers, are victims of the situation and live under degrading conditions;]] [[whereas it is therefore in the interests of national security to bring IS women and their children under Dutch jurisdiction;]] [[noting that the AIVD concludes that approximately 5% of the total number of children has received training from ISIS and this is very likely not to be the case for girls or minors;]] [[noting that more than half of the children with a Dutch link, being at least one parent of Dutch nationality, are under 4 years of age and the proportion of young-girl is about the same;]] [[calls on the Government to repatriate and bring under Dutch jurisdiction Dutch IS women and their children now imprisoned in the Syrian prison camps Al-Hol and Al-Roj,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Van der Werf, Mr Kathmann and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-606]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u168	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas most children in Syrian prison camps were born there or were taken against their will by their parents and are therefore victims;]] [[Whereas aid organisations working in Syrian camps, such as the Red Cross and UNICEF, call for these children to be taken out of miserable conditions as soon as possible as a result of the shelter in the camps;]] [[whereas the Dutch security services, being the AIVD, STVD and NCTV, find that the recovery of IS women and their children is the safest option;]] [[Whereas it is important to put children's rights first and to examine the possibilities and consequences of repatriation, taking into account the individual interests of each child and taking into account international legal standards;]] [[noting that according to the UN Convention on the Rights of Children, the Dutch government has a responsibility to guarantee children's rights;]] [[Considering that repatriation and support of traumatised children is a complex issue which requires consideration of many aspects;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct targeted investigations into the situation in Syrian prison camps, to inform the Court of Justice of the experiences of returning offenders and their children, the possibilities and consequences of repatriation for children's rights and national security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek, Mr Kathmann and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-607]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group. Actually, Mrs Kuik is now, but Mr Van Nispen is already halfway through the room. Sorry, he was already on his way. Mrs. Kuik, you may speak ten seconds longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u170	For atrocities, people must be tried, preferably in the region. If that is not possible and in a specific case threatens impunity, controlled return can be an option if all the conditions are met. So I agree with the case-to-case approach, especially since the alternative, namely escapes and the risk of uncontrolled return, may be a greater risk to national security. I have two more questions. The Minister said that it may be that the Kurds are not maintaining the camps at some point. My question is, what then? How is that monitored? Is there some kind of consultation about that? Will we at least get a warning or something about that? I'd like to hear more about that. My final question is about supervision. The Minister also said: we must keep a very close eye on returnees. He emphasized that a few times. However, we also know how labour-intensive that is. Does the Minister guarantee sufficient capacity for supervision and that money does not play a role in monitoring dangerous individuals? Finally, a motion on the interests of victims and survivors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas IS fighters have committed atrocious acts;]] [[Whereas the victims and survivors of these atrocities, such as the large group of Jezidis, deserve justice;]] [[Whereas the acts have not been committed in the country of trial and the victims are often not in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, if there is a trial of returnees in the Netherlands, to also pay particular attention to the legitimate interests of victims and survivors and to consider, for example, what this means for the exercise of the right to speak and join in the criminal proceedings for damages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Kuik, Bikker, Kuzu, Kathmann, Koekkoek, Van der Staaij and Van der Werf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-608]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. It is good to hear that this is not a precedent, but that this is a matter of special circumstances, and that safety is paramount. On the contrary, Syria may become more dangerous if the Americans leave. After the Second World War, we also saw the establishment of a tribunal. We've had a Yugoslavian tribunal. Then we can now be fully deployed at a tribunal there in the region. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the expatriates who are still in the former IS area are jointly responsible for making possible the horrors committed by IS;]] [[Considering that it is extremely important for the restoration of the region and for the local population, who have lost their homes and homes, that travellers should be tried locally;]] [[Whereas, on the contrary, in the case of local trial, there is no question of impunity and should therefore remain the main commitment of this cabinet;]] [[calls on the government, without prejudice to other countries, to commit to local trial, including for female extravagants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bikker, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u172	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the US House of Representatives, the UN Commission for Syria and recently the Belgian Parliament have classified the atrocities committed by ISIS against Jezidis, Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities as crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[noting that the Dutch Parliament has not explicitly recognised the genocide committed by IS;]] [[Notes that IS has committed genocide on the Jezidi population and has committed crimes against humanity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Bikker, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Kathmann, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Kuzu, Mr Markuszower, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Werf, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-610]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you. I won't give you an introduction, because then I won't have time for the motions. I'm gonna read those motions right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under Article 14 RWN often does not seem possible because it is considered that people should not become stateless;]] [[Whereas the importance of the safety of the Dutch is at stake;]] [[calls on the government, in extreme cases, such as joining a foreign military service or travelling to areas to help with terrorist organisations, to deprive the Netherlands of its status even though this leads to statelessness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people of Dutch nationality alone cannot automatically lose their Dutch citizenship;]] [[noting that people of dual nationality may in some cases lose their Dutch nationality, including joining an organisation that poses a threat to national security, such as Islamic State;]] [[calls on the Chamber to inform the House of the nationality, whether double or not, of all IS-goers from the Netherlands before the summer recess;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet, in the case of those of whom it is not known, to investigate their nationalities and to inform the Chamber before 1 September, and of the IS-goers, as described above, who appear to be of dual nationality, to immediately withdraw Dutch nationality and do everything in their power to expel them to the country of their second nationality;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-611]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-612]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. In my ideal world you will judge all the executioners of ISIS in the region, you will kick them, you will take away their Dutch identity and they will never again be welcome in our democratic rule of law. But having heard all the discussions of the experts and ministers, I know by now that that ideal world does not exist. We only have to choose here today for our safety and against impunity. That is why the PvdA participates in any proposal that improves safety, reduces impunity, improves the position of children, improves the position of victims and focuses on final trial in the region. That is still the ideal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas international conventions should never overrule Dutch law;]] [[Whereas asylum migration undermines the security of our people;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be able to consider for themselves which immigrants are welcome and not welcome and that we should not be bound by UN-appointed "rights" for UN-defined categories of "refugees";]] [[calls on the Government to denounce the 1951 Refugee Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-613]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u179	I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr President, thank you. I shall move quickly to the motions, but there is one more question from Mr Van Nispen and I shall begin with that. At the moment, the TER team I mentioned has sufficient capacity to carry out the work for the guidance and reintegration of the target group. At present, the Dutch intelligence and security services also have sufficient capacity to track radicalised individuals. This was written to you on 8 April in response to questions from the then Member Yeşilgöz. There you can find this even more detailed. Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the motions. I refer to the Chamber number, and I shall briefly state what the motion is about. In the case of the songs I miss, Mr Kaag will take the decision. The first motion is the motion by Mr Markuszower and Mr Wilders to item No. 595. This motion calls on the government not to repatriate any more travellers. I do not recommend this motion, because I have just explained in detail why we have chosen the case-by-case approach and what exactly are the basis and criteria for it. The motion in part No. 596 calls on no terrorist anywhere in the world, with any nationality whatsoever, to be allowed into our country. I do not recommend this motion, because I have explained that all people of Dutch nationality may at least demand that they be admitted to the Netherlands. The fact that they will then be tried if they could have terrorist crimes on their hands and be suspected of them is another thing. But I must at least discourage the motion. Then I come to Mrs Michon-Derkzen's motions. The first motion by Mrs Michon-Derkzen and Mrs Bikker, in part No. 597, is a motion that I'd like to leave to judge Chamber. I have looked back at that file and I really think that there has always been timely information, but it is just right that we should put every six months in order for everyone where we stand and what has happened recently. There's just a lot of judgments, events and what's more. Judge Room! The fourth motion by Mrs Michon-Derkzen, on item No. 598, is about an alternative way for the right to a fair trial. I am not going to repeat in detail the position of the Supreme Court on that point, but if I may read the motion in such a way that we should, in particular, examine, within the limits of legal law, the possibilities that can serve as an alternative to that right of presence, then I can leave it to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u181	To be sharp, I assume that the Minister will use all his creativity, so that, for example, through a video link, we respect the right to be present and that we do not have to bring anyone back. Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u182	Of course, that's the point. We are really going to look at, for example, Article 131a Criminal Procedure. That article is about a video conference. If I can see it in such a way that, with all our creativity, we are going to look again at the possibilities within the laws in force that really offer the judge an alternative to the right to be present, then I will leave her judgment Chamber. Mr President, thus. That was the fourth motion. The fifth motion is also by Mrs Michon and has part No. 599. The motion deals with the possibility of imposing minimum penalties. I really shouldn't recommend that motion. I have already said a few things about this, but we have a criminal law with general definitions of criminal offences. The judge has ample immunity. Somewhere in the debate, Mrs Bikker was right to say that the judge handed out twice as hard in a case as the prosecutor had demanded. Yeah, well, that doesn't mean anything. It's something quite different, but the other day we saw in that horrible case of the murder of that Rotterdam schoolgirl that the judge is working harder than at first instance. I think we should therefore realise that that is our system and that it works well. Strict penalties are simply imposed and it is not possible to apply the behavioral and freedom-limiting measures laid down in the Law on long-term supervision of criminal offences committed before 1 January. That would be contrary to the principle of legality. In view of these points, I must advise against the motion, however much I sympathise with some of the views expressed in the preamble to it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 600 by Mrs Van der Werf and Mrs Koekkoek ask the government to make maximum efforts to ensure that terrorist suspects do not get away with their punishment. I can give him a ruling room. I think that is something that we should continue to work for as a cabinet, even if it is ultimately up to the judge to determine whether there will be a punishment and if so, what that punishment is. Mr. Chairman. The Eerdmans motion in part No. 601 wants to withdraw the Dutch identity of all persons residing abroad who have travelled to Islamic State. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. If Mr Eerdmans wishes to do so, he must put forward an own-initiative proposal to amend Article 14 (4) because we really need that AIVD message to do so. The motion in part No. 603 by Mr Van der Staaij together with Mrs Michon-Derkzen, Mrs Kuik, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Markuszower and Mr Eerdmans, the government is asking for maximum withdrawal from the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij understands, given what I said earlier, that I can only give that motion a Chamber of Justice. I really see that as an important task for the Secretary of State and in her wake myself. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna skip a few more motions. The motion in part No. 606 was tabled by Mrs Koekkoek, Mrs Kathmann and Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kuzu on the bet to... No, sorry. Mrs Koekkoek, Mrs Van der Werf, Mrs Kathmann and Mr Kuzu. Those are the proposers. Excuse me. I involved Mr Van der Staaij in something that probably scared him a lot, but that was not the intention. I don't recommend that motion. She is asking for everyone to be brought back, but that is also contrary to the case-by-case assessment, based on the judge's ruling. So I advise against that motion. The motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Bikker, Mr Kuzu, Mrs Kathmann, Mrs Koekkoek, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van der Werf requests that consideration be given to the legitimate interests of victims and survivors. I'll give that motion to the Chamber without further ado. That sounds pretty clear to me. Then I come to the motion on part No. 609, in which Mrs Kuik, together with Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Bikker, Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Kathmann, asks for unabated commitment, together with other countries, to local trial. If I interpret that motion so well that it is intended to continue to actively examine those options, I can, of course, leave that motion to judge Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 611 by Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga on joining foreign military service and then making stateless. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. I refer to what I said about the 1961 United Nations Convention which the Netherlands endorsed. The motion in part No. 612 by Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans want the Chamber to be informed of the dual nationality of all IS-goers from the Netherlands. The Government must also investigate nationality and immediately withdraw Dutch nationality. That motion alone I have to advise against the latter. I have already explained to Mr Eerdmans' previous motion that this does not coincide with the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. Then I have the Jansen motion in part No. 613 on the termination of the 1951 Refugee Convention. Mr President, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u184	The motion is not recommended, but the motion also states that we are asking to investigate all nationalities. Despite the figures we have received, for which we are grateful, there is no mention at all of the nationality of these people. It is right for us to know what nationality these people have. It is not clear to me whether the Ministry or the Minister has investigated this at all and, if not, whether that investigation can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u185	I would like to say something about this, because I understand very well that Mrs van der Plas says: I might like to know a little more about that. There is no registration of that second nationality. It's so settled in the law. That is a problem that is equally separate from this debate. I want to be able to meet Mrs van der Plas in one way or another. I do not find it difficult, in connection with the Van der Staaij motion, to use a letter after the summer recess to take away that dual nationality and, in general terms, to say something about what is going on with this policy. The problem is that I cannot focus too much on individual matters, because I am not allowed to do so. Then I'm going to interfere with justice. We all know the Minister shouldn't interfere. It's just not up to me. But I can assure you that after the summer recess, including in the light of Mr Van der Staaij's motion cum suis, I will indicate more generally how we are now dealing with the question of dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u186	Fine. Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u187	I assume that the Minister and all of us, too, will want to know what nationalities they have and whether we will have an opportunity to withdraw Dutch nationality from these people. That's what we want to know, isn't it? Isn't that what the Minister wants to know? We're not just gonna let everyone cross the border and then think: then we'll see what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u188	No, I didn't. Mrs Van der Plas is absolutely right about that. That is why I have also said that our services look very closely at this and that they are vigilant about it. But yes, that's information about individual cases that I can't interfere with. And when it comes to service information, I can't just share it. That is why I say that, following on from the Van der Staaij motion, which I have left to the Chamber of Justice, after the summer, I may return in a general sense to that problem of dual nationalities. Again, we are not allowed to register that either under the BRP Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u189	Fine. Thank you for your contribution. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. The floor is up to her. Let's take a little mop break first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to a question from Mr Van Nispen: what happens if the Kurds are unable or unwilling to guard the camps? Is there any contact? We are following closely the situation in Northeast Syria. We do that through allies. Of course, we also have posts and other capacities. It is also often discussed at EU level, where the Syrian Kurds themselves are regularly invited to update and share insights. In doing so, they systematically find that the situation in the camps is bad and that they cannot guarantee that people do not escape from the camps, as we know from the past. Dutch women have escaped in the past, so that risk remains, I say if that is what Mr Van Nispen was referring to with his question. Then I'll continue with the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 602 by Mrs Bikker, Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. I would just like to point out the third paragraph which states that 'other vulnerable IS victims can continue as long as necessary and extend it with humanitarian aid for comparable existing shelters in Northeast Syria'. I would like to leave that motion to the Chamber of Justice, pointing out that the cabinet, like previous cabinets, is always based on the humanitarian imperative. It does not therefore target target groups with funding, but looks at the most vulnerable. Of course, there's a probable one-on-one overlap. So I think it's gonna be okay, but I'd like to be clear about it. I'm giving her judgment room. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. 605 by Mr Kuzu: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 607 by Mrs Cuckoo, Mrs Kathmann and Mr Kuzu: dissuade. The motion in part No. 609 by Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Bikker, Mrs Michon-Derkzen, Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Kathmann: Court judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u191	I can't get it shorter and pointier. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u192	The motion in part No. 610 is a speech-exmotion. I am ashamed to say that I did not mention Mrs Bikker the very first signatory of the first hour, but he was certainly present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u193	Then you must send us a new version, on which Mrs Bikker's name is recorded for eternity. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-01-tweedekamer-9.u194	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I thank the two ministers for this long sitting, for their presence and for the answers. We're ready for six anyway, so we've done it timewise fairly pointy. Thank you very much for that. I wish you all at home. I'll suspend until 7:00.
