ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on Rule 100 - Dutch contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, as well as the MPs and viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we have had a good committee debate with each other on the extension of the Dutch contribution to combating terrorist organisation ISIS. It is a terrible and, above all, cruel gang that has committed crimes against humanity and genocide. Even though this gang is territorial reports, it is still important to combat them. It is particularly important that we remove the breeding ground for people who are susceptible to this extremist ideology. Mr. Chairman. I have already said in committee that my group is not opposed to military intervention in a general sense. Military intervention is sometimes necessary when all other alternatives are no longer feasible. If we are to take military action or make a military contribution to a coalition, we must, above all, focus on the objectives of the mission. In the letter from the cabinet we see that three objectives have been set out. In itself, these are fine objectives, which I believe everyone can support, namely to contribute to the protection of the civilian population, to promote the rule of law and to consolidate the results of the fight against ISIS. I'll have a drink of water, Mr. Chairman. With a predominantly military strategy, you cannot bring about social change and serve these goals. In this sense, the comparison with Afghanistan is certainly true. What have we learned from the debacle of not even six months ago? You can't change an ideology and the thoughts of people who are susceptible to an extremist ideology with military uniforms and gun clatter. It is necessary to invest for long and years in sustainable investments that can benefit the local population. This has also been the fundamental criticism of DENK in recent years, from the very beginning. There is no long-term strategy for peace and stability in the region and prosperity for the population. That is even more difficult when you see that Iraq is a divided country with sharp political and ethnic contradictions. So everything you now want to build with military facilitation is fragile and actually a recipe for failure. There is currently no clear political strategy in the anti-ISIS coalition. There is not enough strong diplomacy and there is not enough development cooperation that focuses on the interests of the local population. Mr. Chairman. I noticed that the Minister of Defence fully agreed with my analysis during the committee debate, but the conclusion of this analysis is that the contribution of the Netherlands to combating ISIS in this way is a bottomless pit. My group wants to see a possible future commitment next year, because we are likely to talk about a further extension of the long-term strategy. In the absence of this strategy, my group will not support the extension of the Dutch contribution to the coalition. I have therefore co-signed the motion that Mr van Dijk is about to table. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, I know the numerical ratio in the Chamber after hearing colleagues during the committee debate. A majority is about to declare their agreement to the extension of the mission. Although my group is not in favour of an extension, we wish all the soldiers who are about to be deployed or who are already there, a safe mission and a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. The broadcasting of military personnel is the toughest decision a cabinet can take and therefore makes it the toughest decision that can be made in a Chamber. I would therefore like to express my thanks, also on behalf of Mr Sjoerdsma, to the ministers and the entire staff for clarifying the mission. Even though we have now arrived in the final stage to sustainably defeat IS and create a stable situation in Iraq, it remains very important to manage this mission. As the Minister pointed out, this barbaric organisation is still carrying out daily attacks and will seize every opportunity to do damage and disrupt the early Iraqi stability. That is why it is a good thing that the mission has been carefully discussed in committee again this afternoon. As far as my group is concerned, the main concerns are the situation in North-East Syria and the limited influence that the Netherlands has on this. In addition, the troubled political sentiment in the Iraqi Government is a cause for concern, and my group would encourage the cabinet to work towards a solid long-term strategy to bring this mission to a successful conclusion. Having said that and considering everything, D66 supports the extension of this mission. The Netherlands has started this coalition together with many countries. There has been a successful military campaign so far, with ISIS already reported territorially. As far as D66 is concerned, the Netherlands continues to do so and works towards the moment when Iraqi troops can guarantee the security of their country themselves. My group wishes all soldiers involved good luck on this mission and a preserved homecoming, and their families and loved ones strength during their absence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA. It shall refrain from speaking. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has strongly supported the Dutch participation in the fight against the Islamic caliphate from the beginning to the final dismantling of that caliphate. But with this, the Netherlands has made sufficient efforts in our view. The Minister has described the Dutch military mission in Iraq as it now looks and needs to look, as a contribution to keeping things manageable there. Keeping things manageable after the caliphate was defeated is, as far as the PVV is concerned, the task of the governments of the countries that covered the caliphate. If Iraq wants help with this, then it should come to others. As far as we are concerned, this is what is being done in countries that can count Iraq as a backyard. We do not see why the Netherlands should now secure that airport of Erbil instead of the Iraqis themselves, or the countries in the region that are also part of the coalition. Such countries, with sufficient military power, are plenty in that region. I am, of course, thinking primarily of the rich Gulf States, but at least not of the Netherlands. The PVV therefore does not support the extension of the stay of Dutch soldiers in Iraq. We want them to be able to return to the Netherlands as soon as possible, because we think it has been so beautiful. That is why I am voting in favour of the motion that Jasper van Dijk will put forward in a moment. If the mission is to be extended, and it looks like it, then, of course, I wish all those who are part of it to be able to do their job properly and safely. And I wish them, and their neighbors, much strength and above all a safe return to the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants to contribute to the fight against ISIS and wider security in Iraq. ISIS is responsible for the most horrific acts of recent history, including the genocide on Jezidis. In recent years, we have been able to bring ISIS to its knees, but it is clear that the battle has not yet been fought. As long as ISIS can't start a caliphate again, the attraction is less, also for IS in the Netherlands. That is why we must continue to fight against ISIS. For example, we contribute to the security of the Netherlands, our allies and the population in Iraq. And with this we also contribute to the prevention of migratory flows towards the Netherlands. I appreciate the honesty and realism of the ministers about what we can achieve with our efforts. However, I would urge the Cabinet to use this commitment to contribute as much as possible to the following matters. One: the trial of IS fighters. Two: improving the situation of displaced Jezidis and creating the conditions that allow them to return to their home territory. And three: good governance in the Kurdish region. As far as the latter is concerned, it is right that the Minister should keep an eye on whether the effectiveness of our military advisor at the Ministry of Peshmerga Affairs can be increased. The Cabinet assesses the security risks as low. In the debate we discussed a number of uncertainties, in particular the question of what the new Iraqi coalition means for the presence of Western troops. I appreciate the commitment to inform the Chamber if the threat picture changes and when there is more clarity about the consequences of an Iraqi coalition on the presence of Western soldiers. Finally, the measures to control the safety risks and the medical chain present give my group sufficient confidence that this mission can be extended in a responsible manner. The VVD therefore agrees with the extension of this mission and the wider engagement in Iraq. I hope that our commitment will be successful in the coming year and wish our soldiers in Iraq much strength. This also applies to the home front, which is left behind in the Netherlands. I hope for everyone to have a safe return. Finally, I would like to end with a personal note, because this was perhaps the last debate with these two ministers. In my nine months as a Member of Parliament, I have been able to experience three foreign ministers. I have had a lot of debates with this foreign minister over the last few weeks. I must say that was a great pleasure. I appreciated his personal reflections, the honesty with which he outlined dilemmas, his realism and the constructive attitude towards proposals and ideas from the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, a next minister can take an example of this. I would like to thank both ministers for their efforts over the past few months and to wish them every success and prosperity in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the Dutch contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition and broad security deployment in Iraq in 2022. Last week we had a technical briefing on this and this afternoon we talked about our commitment. We are therefore convinced that, under difficult conditions in Iraq, our people there can do their important work with maximum protection. The number of IS terrorists has been reduced from 40,000 to 8,000 by the coalition's joint commitment. That's good news. At the same time, there are still 8,000 too many. This afternoon I pay attention to the Jezidi population, which has been disproportionately hit by these terrorists. The first terrorist has recently been convicted in Germany of genocide and genocide on a five-year-old girl. It is important to do justice to the Jezidis. We are now asking our military to commit themselves to a common freedom. I referred earlier today to the Dutch Constitution and our mission to protect the international legal order. It is good that the Secretary of Defense and the SGP share that. Having heard everything, our group supports the mission in Iraq. We are grateful that, as the Netherlands, we can contribute to peace and security in this world, however limited it may be, as the colleague said. The CDA thanks all our soldiers and those who love them for their efforts. We pray for their good work and hope for a safe return home. Where the VVD colleague spoke for the CDA Minister, I have a few words for the VVD Minister. Of course, I have known Minister Kamp quite a long time, from a very different perspective, from Economic Affairs and Climate, and now several weeks, months on this important portfolio. I also thank him for everything he has done for us in the House of Representatives. Maybe we'll see him again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr. Chairman. By the rivers the Euphrates and the Tigris, according to the Bible book Genesis, was once the Garden of Eden. That was paradise, where people lived in peace with each other and with their Creator. And it is precisely in this same area that we see today how far man has strayed, how much people can stand each other to life. In this light, the SGP supports the Dutch commitment to the fight against ISIS, to reverse evil and bring good a step closer. And at the same time, Christmas, where we live now, the birth of Jesus, reminds us of a much richer perspective. When they were born, the angels sang about peace on earth and good pleasure in men. That is why I end with this song: for everyone who strays into the dark, the sun gives him a bright light that irradiates him in shadow of death, pointing his feet at the path of peace. That is why we wish all the soldiers and their home front a blessed Christmas, wherever that may be, a safe commitment in the land of the Euphrates and the Tigris and in due course a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government wants to extend the military mission in Iraq by one year. Instead of conducting long-term, hopeless wars, permanent war and illegal occupation, we ask the government to opt for political solutions, humanitarian aid and economic cooperation. On this mission, we have too little vision for a political solution. In addition, an elaborate exit strategy is lacking. Apparently, that lesson from Afghanistan hasn't been learned yet. That is why we do not support this mission. That does not alter the fact that we wish the Dutch military a safe return. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions to support my plea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to extend the Dutch participation in the anti-ISIS coalition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-877]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u15	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the cabinet wishes to extend the Dutch participation in the anti-ISIS coalition in Iraq by one year;]] [[Considering that this mission has been extended year after year since 2014, without a clear exit strategy;]] [[noting that there is no evacuation plan in the event of a sudden deterioration in the security situation;]] [[considers that an Afghanistan scenario should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an exit strategy and an evacuation plan for the Dutch participation in the anti-ISIS coalition in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-878]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u16	Mr. Chairman. I have one minute for 40 more to thank these two ministers for the short but intense period they have led here in this outgoing cabinet. I just get the impression that we're not gonna see them again, but maybe I'm completely wrong, so I want to thank them. We were sometimes very disagreeable, this afternoon, I say to the Secretary of Defense. But that does not alter the fact that I enjoyed the debate. I'd like to say to the Secretary of State, who may have some days off, towards Christmas: look at that show at the State Department. That's about him and all his people. Then he can see how well he did it, perhaps. For the Secretary of Defense, I have another publication. The Foreign Minister already has it, but it wasn't there during the defence budget. It also sounds like something very nice for under the Christmas tree for Mr. Camp. It's about disarmament, worldwide. Maybe we'll talk about that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking tonight on behalf of Mrs Piri of the Labour Party. She attended the committee debate this afternoon. I took part in the technical briefing last week. If we look back, I won't make it too long, then we know that the First Gulf War started when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. I can still understand that the international community did not accept this and acted against it. We also know that the Second Gulf War was based on an incorrect assumption. The weapons of mass destruction weren't there. However, there has been a great deal of violence on "regime change" and a policy of occupation has been pursued which has in many respects thrown the country far back in time. The country has still not recovered from this. The Netherlands has had a responsibility. For this reason alone, we still have the responsibility, to date, to help stabilise the situation there. That is quite separate from what the Constitution tells us, and Mrs Belhaj referred to it. That too is a reason, if we see a reason and are wanted there. Here too, there is a mandate, because the Iraqi authorities are asking us to carry out this activity there. I would like to emphasise that. We have heard from the experienced ambassador on the ground, Michel Interestenaar, that all political parties there are still convinced of the seriousness of the danger posed by ISIS. Even though his capabilities are greatly reduced, ISIS still poses a real threat in the part of Iraq where our people are going to play a role. Now that we see that, both of our parties believe that the Netherlands should continue with this responsibility and we will agree to an extension of the mission. But we do have the hope and the wish that the political situation will stabilise, that there will be a new coalition that will make sensible agreements and that our people will keep the military and especially the diplomats on the ground very well informed of all the developments that are going in the wrong direction. We need to keep our finger on the wrist. I trust that the two rulers will probably assume that responsibility for their successors. At the same time, I agree with those who say that it is important that we continue to work to ensure that there is no impunity and that the genocide has consequences on the Jezidis, without stacking up all kinds of additional targets on a relatively limited mission. I wish all military, but also all civilian and diplomatic staff the best and a safe period in Iraq. I also wish their families much strength in the period in which their relatives are active there. I too would like to join with the words of thanks to both rulers, who have indeed taken responsibility in a short but special phase in Dutch political history. I remember good debates on content and sometimes on a philosophical level. I tasted a certain distance to, say, traditional party politics in a coalition context. I'll remember that with good memories. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u20	Chairman and best inhabitants of the Netherlands. I am aware of the importance of the constitutional procedure between the government and the Chamber, which is followed if the cabinet wishes to extend a military effort abroad. I would like to say that I am extremely pleased and proud that the Netherlands, through training and advice to Iraqi authorities, has been able to contribute to the defeat of ISIS. We have been able to move mountains with a small and focused bet. All this is due to our fantastic military and civilian compatriots, who are willing to work far from home. But even now that ISIS appears to be reports, aftercare remains important. Helping to build a stable and self-employed security device in Iraq is necessary, especially if we are to prevent the emergence of a new ISIS. When we reflect on the disaster that took place in Afghanistan this year, we see that we need to be careful when retreating from this unstable region. On the other hand, it is very important that we do not commit ourselves for an eternity to the commitment of our people to foreign missions. That is why I am satisfied with the technical extension of the mission for a single year. This gives us the opportunity to discuss in detail with a new cabinet next year the objectives and the need for the mission in the longer term. I have 1 minute and 40 seconds left to praise these ministers! Of course, I'm only here for a short while. I've been through a lot, including the Afghanistan debate. I was able to get to know these two ministers for a short time. I would like to thank both ministers very much for their commitment over the last few months, assuming that they do not return. Personally, I would be very sorry to hear that. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. I have seen both ministers as very sympathetic, calm and stable. Maybe you need to be a little older to be able to do that; I don't know. I'm not gonna get involved in that either, 'cause you're gonna get it again. Anyway, that's my personal experience. I've experienced it as very pleasant. You have entered into a very chaotic period and have certainly reduced the peace in fierce debates. Well, a lot just happened. So thank you for that. I would like to wish both ministers a very happy Christmas and, above all, a very healthy 2022. I might see Mr Kamp again, because we have a sort of loose-standing appointment to go to Go Ahead Eagles against FC Twente again. So I'm gonna run into him on my way. I wish you all the best, Minister Knapen. For the rest, I wish everyone here a Merry Christmas: the messengers, the chamber staff and the official support. If I've forgotten someone, on this one. Oh, and the colleagues, of course. I would have done that this afternoon, but of course they were other colleagues. I also wish my fellow Members a very happy Christmas and a very happy and healthy New Year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you. We wish you a Merry Christmas, too. We're gonna vote, aren't we? So I hope to see you in the Chamber later. We're not done for today. Mr Ceder has also registered, so I am giving Mr Van Haga the floor as one-after-last. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always a heavy decision to be a military activity somewhere outside the Netherlands. That should not be taken lightly. The importance of the Netherlands must always prevail and the safety of the Dutch must be improved by participation. As far as BVNL is concerned, it is important that we always realize that there can be deaths, and that anyone who decides to send soldiers to a far and foreign country would also do so when it comes to their own son or daughter. The question must always be: am I willing to sacrifice my own son or daughter in a distant country such as Mali, Afghanistan, Iraq, New Guinea, Congo or Korea? As far as we are concerned, the answer is almost always no. The decision to support a foreign military mission must therefore almost always be negative. Moreover, the results of foreign military interventions in recent decades are downright bad, despite the enormous efforts of our military. It is usually ruined a few thousand kilometres away by politicians like us, who know nothing about horns or blows. Mr. Chairman. In this case it is an extension of an existing situation for one year with a relatively low risk. As far as BVNL is concerned, we can support this extension, but we would appreciate it if we could do everything we can to complete this mission as soon as possible. And of course BVNL wishes our soldiers a safe return home. And I have a few seconds left to thank both ministers, and in particular Minister Henk Kamp, with whom I always have a very pleasant exchange of views. It's probably the last time we do this, and that's why I'd love it if we could go to Ermelo again to finish your own IP bivouac there. And normally I end up with "in the interests of the Netherlands," but I don't think it's in the interests of the Netherlands. But I would appreciate it if we could do that again, because that has been a missed opportunity for this minister and that needs to be made up for. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Earlier today, we talked about broadcasting, or expanding, the mission. That's not a light decision. We have discussed it with our group. And as it turned out this afternoon, we had a number of questions. Ask if we send out our troops with sufficient equipment. And we were wondering if there was sufficient certainty. Mr. Chairman. Following consultation with my group, we can conclude that we have had sufficient confirmation and answers from the Minister to conclude that this has indeed been met. We do not lighten this balance, but it does mean that we can agree to the extension of this mission. Mr. Chairman. As the others indicated, I would also like to thank the ministers. I don't know where their future is, whether it's here or elsewhere, but I want to thank them for their professionalism, clarity and skill. In a few weeks, or the month or two I've spent here with these two rulers, experienced men in politics, I've learned a lot. I would like to thank them for that. I would also like to thank the messengers and the officials you often do not see in the foreground here. It's been a very intensive year. This is my first year, but I understand that, as things stand at present, it is not very common. So I hope for a peaceful year next year, and that my expectations will be adjusted about the intensity of the work; a wonderful office, the highest office we are allowed to hold in the Netherlands, and I am proud of that. I am also proud of my fellow Members, even when we do not always agree, but thank you very much. And Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you. Finally, I wish the troops good luck and, above all, God's blessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ceder, for your warm words to everyone. The directors have indicated that they can respond immediately. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mr President, thank you very much. I am, I must say, impressed by the care with which your Chamber conducts such a process of sending troops: a technical briefing, many questions. I think that is very good, because if we send people out, then they must feel that we have handled this carefully, and you exude it. This short debate tonight has quite a few elements of symbolism, and symbolism counts. Those who are about to declare that they do not want to send out the troops also make it clear where their hearts lie when it comes to our people, and I think it is extremely important that that happens. I've been reminded that sometimes I've been a little too realistic. To be honest, when it comes to these kinds of missions, I am cautious about using big words. For great words can lead to illusions, and illusions can lead to enormous disappointments; and we must save each other from that. That is why I said what I said, that making a situation manageable is a great deal in the absence of peace, but that is something that is very worthwhile to strive for, in the midst of all misery. This is indeed, if nothing very strange happens between now and a few weeks later, the last time I stand here. It's been a great pleasure. Look, I'm a bit of a follower and fan of a German philosopher, who once said, "Goodness is like an air cushion; there's nothing in it, but it softens the punches of life." When I came here, friends told me, who know that I am a lover of this philosopher and this statement, what are you going to do there? And every now and then you see compilations on TV that give the impression that people here constantly stand for each other's lives. These are compilations that are not representative of the whole reality of the day, and at least not of reality as I have experienced them. In this period, from September onwards, I have experienced that we can exchange passionately, but that we are willing to listen to the other and let the other's arguments sink. That's what we find interesting, and we're stimulated by it. Apart from all party political part-pris, I think that in the end a parliament can only function in this way. I've appreciated that very much. I am very grateful to all of you for that. Thank you all. Through the chairman, I would also like to thank all the people who are doing the difficult work here, the messengers, the Registry. It's been a great pleasure. I wish you a very creative, constructive three and a half years to serve the homeland here, in this beautiful building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u27	Then we'll clean up before the Secretary of Defense gets the floor. Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kuzu and I made a small attempt this afternoon to agree a little bit. We certainly agree on the importance of a strategy when you are engaged in a military mission in an area. As far as we're concerned, that strategy is always that you're trying to restore peace first. After that, you're gonna try to get the civilian authorities back on their feet. You're trying to help the civilian-led military. Then you leave the area again. That's our strategy on missions like this. Mr Kuzu did not express my words exactly as I put them myself. He said that you shouldn't have it from military forces to improve a situation in a crisis region, but that you should have it from diplomacy, consultation and economic recovery. I agree with him on the latter, but I have also said that it is often necessary for the military to take care of the conditions first of all to make all this possible. You're trying to calm down a crisis where people use violence against each other uncontrolled. From there, you're trying to rebuild the area. That is exactly what we are doing in Iraq. The OIR battle mission in Iraq is being converted into NATO's NMI mission. This is a mission in which we are trying to get that country back on its feet, especially the people themselves in the country, the government itself, the military themselves in that area, so that we can leave that country again. That's what we're aiming for. I thank Mr Van Dijk for the two motions he has tabled to keep us sharp. The motion in part No. 877, in which he asks not to extend the stakes in the area as we propose, I advise against. Mr Van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr De Roon understood this afternoon, in the committee debate, why we did not recommend this motion. In the motion in part No. 878 Mr Van Dijk says that there is no exit strategy, that there is no evacuation plan. That's incorrect. There's an exit strategy. I explained that to you this afternoon. There's an evacuation plan, at least for the civilian people in that area. There is also a plan for the military to withdraw if they cannot maintain their position. Then they retreat to the airport and can leave the country from there. But there is, we estimate, no reason for that. We believe that we can do fruitful work here in the coming year. The military will be happy to do so. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. I would like to make that appointment with Mr Van Haga and Mrs Van der Plas. If anyone's interested in seeing what the reservists Ceder and Boswijk look like in uniform, they can report to me. I'll be happy to show you the picture I have of that. Their efforts are greatly appreciated. Finally, Mr President. Since 1994, I have been allowed to take part in debates here in the Chamber. It's been several thousand. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the trust I have always had from them. I would like to wish the Members of Parliament a great deal of respect for each other. I wish them every success in their commitment to the common good, which they have been working on again tonight, today, this week and last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you. I have a procedural point to make. The motion in part No. 878 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u31	Then we're almost at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u32	I feel very rude at once, because everyone spoke of those beautiful words. They didn't involve me. That felt a bit annoying, didn't it? I thought we had a joint app group. So I'm thinking, I'm gonna take my chance after all. I am also doing this on behalf of Mrs Piri. In this case D66 may also say it on behalf of the PvdA: thank you very much. I think that Mrs Piri and I have not always made it easy for the ministers, but we find it incredibly good how they wanted to manage everything in such a short period of time. Thank you for that and enjoy Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thank you. That concludes the debate. I would also like to thank both directors. Many praises have already been made, but as I have experienced you, I fully understand the praise. I wish you every success in everything you do. The following is also important. On behalf of all Members of Parliament, I wish our soldiers who are deployed a safe mission and a safe homecoming. Also good luck and strength for the family.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-12.u34	This brings us to the end of today's last sitting, except for the fact that we are going to vote. I shall suspend the sitting for 45 minutes, because groups need time to discuss a number of motions internally.
