ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the start of this debate, let me also congratulate the people who made their maiden speech today. I just did that live. Glad we can do that again! But I'm gonna do it this way for a while. In the contribution of Kiki Hagen I found the attention to the right of the other........................................................................................................ I always think that's very important myself. Mrs. Bouchallichh was concerned with the importance of being yourself in this country. That too is a very important principle for me. And the fact that nobody actually gets happy with waste and that we can all use the raw materials so much better, is also something I've been working on for years. So Mr De Groot's contribution was also very recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	Of course, we appreciate these words very much. Thank you for the kind words. I have to add that we have votes. In principle, they are after this debate, unless this debate takes a lot of time. Then we have to stop this debate somewhere before those votes. That has to do with the presence of third parties. So this is an encouragement to your address and to the members to keep it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'm always committed to that, Mr. Chairman. You know that. Let me begin with a general main message, because many of your Members have made comments that point in the same direction. Then I come to a number of detailed questions. At the beginning of the debate, I thought it appropriate to summarise the debate on biofuels that I belong to your Chamber and also to society. That debate is actually about the amount of biofuels, what kind of raw materials and where you use them. All these questions are justified. We really have a biofuels policy, because we want to handle these valuable raw materials carefully. It is not for nothing that the ESC has said in its opinion that we should no longer talk about biofuels, but about bio-raw materials. The question of what we stand for together in this whole climate transition is always where we use materials as high-quality as possible and also how we achieve that high-quality commitment. So I understand your room's concerns and questions. I also share the ambition to set the bar high on quality and smart commitment and also to organise the playing field well for possible alternatives such as hydrogen on steam. We really need to make these steps together with each other and with the whole sector. That is why I was so pleased with the ESC opinion. For this ESC opinion, the environmental movement, trade unions, industry and government have jointly considered how we can ensure the careful commitment. The ESC opinion states: "We still need biofuels for the time being in order to comply with our climate agreements and make the transition to fully emission-free heavy road transport, inland waterways, aviation, maritime transport and passenger transport. For this reason, commitments have been made in the Climate Agreement and in Europe on the commitment until 2030." So it is not about whether we use biofuels or bio-materials, but about how we use them as high-quality and careful as possible. I therefore recognise myself in many of the questions that have been asked. That's how we define the playing field with each other, I think. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you for this commitment. So we are going to talk about the decision, including the list that is derived from Annexes 9a and 9b?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	That question was indeed asked. The annexes have been adopted by the European Commission, but I am willing to send the annexes that have been adopted to the Chamber as a kind of context for information. But we cannot go shopping in it ourselves, because it is established by means of a delegated act at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	That is why I also said: the list that distracts the Netherlands from Annex 9. So it is not at all the issue that we are going to delete from that European list, but the Netherlands does have freedoms to take things off that list, whether or not it is sustainable. We're totally free to do that. We can't do things that aren't on the list, but we don't have to take over everything on the list. When we talk about the decision, I assume we can also talk about the list made by the Secretary of State on the basis of the European directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	But then I think Mr Van Raan has a different view of what that decision will look like. We are dealing with categories and we set limits to categories, but within those categories different flows can be used. We send less on power A or power B. An exception has been made, namely palm oil. This has already been agreed with the parties. By the way, there is also a request to do so for soya. However, it is not the case that we are publishing some kind of positive list in that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	At the beginning of the Secretary of State's reply, we were totally in agreement. We get that list and the decision, and then we're gonna talk about it. But at the end, she now seems to be making some kind of retreating movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	Are we or are we not going to talk about that list when we talk about the decision? This is a list which the Secretary of State adds on the basis of the European list. So I do not want to talk about the European list, but about the translation that the Secretary of State makes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	I think we are in danger of getting into a semantic discussion about a piece that is not yet in the Chamber. So let me suggest that I send the documents to the Chamber as planned. The Chamber can always talk about that. I would like to add the information on the lists adopted by the European Commission. If Mr Van Raan believes that he is still missing something from the documents sent and the decision, then he can always ask about them. In this way, we will at least avoid getting into a semantic discussion with each other. The Labour Party asks why the increase in biofuels is being chosen for lighter vehicles. First of all, we have the objectives of the Climate Agreement and, on top of that, the Urgenda objectives. In the discussion on the Climate Agreement, we looked at the sectors within which there is potential to achieve that 49%, and the overall cost-effective implementation across the different sectors, with all sectors facing a challenge to grow. At that time we said that there is also a button on biofuels that we can turn to achieve this CO reduction, because that 49% we simply wanted to get as a cabinet. Then we had the PBL calculate what possibilities there would be in which sectors. That's where biofuels, I say from my head, came out a potential of about 5 megatons. We didn't take it. We've maximized it to 2 megatons, precisely because of the desire to really fill it in and fill in the increase with advanced biofuel. Then you must also be limited in the amount that you can generate until 2030. As the annual reports of the NEa show, diesel substitutes are also used in particular. Those diesel replacements also focus on heavier transport. This also fits in with the system of the biomass framework that actually says: you have sectors where you are gradually going to reduce again, sectors where you are going to rebuild and sectors where you are going to build. Thus, for passenger transport, this legislation contributes precisely to electrification and thus to strengthening the phasing out of lighter transport by allowing renewable electricity. The Netherlands has been at the forefront of this for years. In addition, there is an existing fleet of cars that are slowly phased out, including fuel conservation. How do we see the timeline? That question might be linked to that. We're clearly focusing on electrification. Part of the agreement in the Climate Agreement is that we do not want to add new fossil cars to the Dutch fleet from 2030 onwards. In Europe, too, negotiations are indeed underway and discussions are being held on the possible introduction of an end date for the sale of fossil fuel cars. Because you also have the hydrogen car. It's electrification, I'll just say for the sake of completeness. With this, and also with our own objective, the use of biofuels is of course gradually shifting from light to heavier transport, because we are simply phasing out these light vehicles in the use of biofuels. We are also committed to accelerating the development and availability of alternative energy sources in order to facilitate this. In my opinion, Mr Grinwis recalled the fact that the Netherlands is truly a frontrunner in the field of loading posts. I believe we have about 66,000 charging points in the Netherlands. That's what makes us the frontrunner. That is also what we are continuing with our National Agenda Loading Infrastructure. In short, we are working on this sustainability and, in practice, on that reduction. How was the sustainability framework included in this bill? Well, this whole bill is, of course, drafted. The choices that have been made and the framework conditions for this concern, of course, European legislation, but also our Climate Agreement, the Urgendadacht and, of course, the sustainability framework that we have put in place to ensure that bio-materials are actually used in a good way across all sectors. The Economic and Social Committee has concluded that, in principle, sufficient bio-raw materials are available at global and European level to meet the Dutch needs. The question, which also came a bit from the PvdA, was: can we work with a fair share? Well, the Economic and Social Committee has also concluded, on the basis of the PBL's research, that fair share is difficult to assess. They strongly recommend to focus on fair trade and certification of the sustainability of biomaterials. That advice was taken by the cabinet. The Christian Union asked about the timetable. I think 2030 is an important moment, because then we want to stop selling fossil fuel cars as a cabinet. In addition, road transport, both light and heavy road transport, must be zero emissions by 2050. That's what we strive for together. For passenger transport, this is likely to be faster than for freight transport. I am also thinking of the whole range of zero emission zones in the inner cities. 30 to 40 Dutch inner cities are going to announce a zero emission zone for cargo. In the Netherlands we are also working very actively to make that heavier transport more sustainable, on the one hand via electrification but also via hydrogen. In particular, hydrogen has a number of major advantages for this heavier transport. We also look at both in the loading infrastructure. Then there's a question of fry fat. All efforts, whatever we use, have to meet both reduction and sustainability criteria. The whole chain is looked at. A large part of the effort in the Netherlands is also from the EU. Those are all the conditions that we put in place. Am I willing to take the chain as well? Yeah, we're also actively targeting waste and residues. These are characterized by high chain reductions. We also exclude high-ILUC crops. As a result, the Netherlands achieves higher chain reductions annually than other Member States. Those were a few general questions. Then I come to a block across different flows, then some more about EV, and then some other questions. A number of members have drawn attention to PFAD in the various flows. That is indeed a by-product. ILUC is not a criterion. Palm oil is of course also used not only for biofuels, but also to a significant extent for food and cosmetics. Palm oil really is in a lot of products. Then there is a residual stream that can then be used. Despite this, this current is hardly used in the Netherlands. But he's under the limit of food anyway. So he's being used very limitedly. "Food crops in the Netherlands" was 1.7% of fuel use in 2020. The VVD's question was about the use of residual biomaterials. Indeed, the Netherlands has been using waste stream residues as a raw material for biofuels for many years. We will certainly continue to do so, because they generate large CO gains and have no risk of deforestation. Sometimes new flows come up and the question is whether these can be certified as residual current. As I said to Mr Van Raan, this is a European matter. For example, at the request of the CDA and the VVD groups, for certain fats, we supported the industry to see if it should indeed be certified according to the criteria as a residual stream and then brought to the attention of the European Commission. So if there are specific questions, we'll see if it meets the criteria, because if we can deploy residual flows, we'll all be better off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	I sometimes have the idea that I am in some kind of theoretical approach and that the practice is very different. It all sounds nice: residual flows, Dutch production. I see precisely that the import of oil for diesel substitutes in the Netherlands has almost doubled under your Secretary of State. So we've been importing a hell of a lot more since you've been Secretary of State here. That's the practice. Then there are countless reports that say that all those biodiesels are worse than regular diesel, worse for the climate as well. So it is also very missing in terms of CO emissions. These emissions are just gonna go on and on. We are going to increase the use of biodiesel in the coming years, not reduce it. So are you not in a theoretical exercise by calculating with your accountants in Brussels whether we are doing everything while the practice is quite different, namely that we are destroying jungles?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	I recognize the PVV's concerns about the primordial forests. I also appreciate their commitment to this. I hope that this commitment also applies to Dutch nature. I also hope that climate concerns will be widespread and that concerns about CO emissions will encourage the PVV to fully support its broad commitment to combating climate change, which indeed has all kinds of impacts on biodiversity. When it comes to combating climate change, we also need to replace fossil fuels with biofuels. You have to check every time that biofuel under the line is really better for the climate, otherwise you're not doing the right thing. That is why it is so important for the European Commission to carry out this research in a structural manner and also to draw up lists based on the latest scientific findings. They also update that list at regular intervals. If an update is taking place, I will certainly inform the Chamber about what the latest investigation actually shows about what it yields under the line. Of course, that is crucial: if it doesn't work out under the line, we shouldn't do it. We agree on that. If it is successful, I hope that Mr Madlener will also support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	Well, sure. We are not at the kitchen table; we are in the parliament of the Dutch people. If I'm going to look for facts, I'm just going to come up with completely different figures than you. Then I see that the current use of palm oil, but also soya, is worse than the use of regular diesel. It is also more expensive for the motorist, but it is also worse when it comes to CO emissions and destruction of jungle, which we are, of course, concerned about. How come you come here with beautiful stories, with calculation exercises and "we have to meet" while practice is a whole different one? Who are we kidding?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	In any case, let us ensure that we do not fool the electorate, because palm and soya are not used in the Netherlands because of the concerns that are indeed there about the durability of these oils. We have made an agreement with the sectors that these oils are not used in the Netherlands. Well, that's not gonna happen. It is an agreement we made under the Climate Agreement that will not happen either. Palm oil is also excluded in this legislation. Again, there is an amendment from D66 to ask the question for soy too: if it is soy that you can really say there are high risk factors... If it is grown in the Netherlands, then there will be no jungle for it, but if that threat is there, you should not want it. I will come back to that amendment later, but no palm oil and no soya oil are being used in the Netherlands for the production of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	I do agree with the PVV a little bit in this respect, because when I hear the story of the Secretary of State, it seems that we all agree and that we come out easily, but the practice is another. She says, for example, that we should focus as much as possible on the reuse of substances and that waste streams should be mainly used for the production of biofuels. But does she see that the outcome of the law we are discussing today will be that imports of conventional biofuels will increase? Does she see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u19	No, because we are there ourselves how we set a limit to the extent to which those primary biofuels, those first generation biofuels, are used. According to European regulations, the Netherlands was allowed to use up to 7% of those primary biofuels, of those first generation biofuels. That was the European cap. I reduced that in my time as a Member of Parliament together with a Member of Parliament from GroenLinks. By 2020, it was 1.7%. There is European regulation that then indicates that you can only be up to 1% above that figure by 2020. So we're a long way from the cap that was there at first. We're really at a low percentage, and I think we should keep that low. That really is our joint commitment. I also feel support for this from the input into the Chamber. We are going to talk about it further in the decision, but I share with Mr Alkaya that we should not see this great growth. Then we'll go into the decision with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u20	It is nice that we are far from that cap, but the question is of course: is the use of that primary raw material for biofuels going to increase with this law compared to the current situation or not? I do not hear the Secretary of State say: no, it is not going to increase significantly. Wouldn't it be nice if we could decide that here? Then we've already taken some of the concerns away and we can talk about the rest. Does the Secretary of State rule this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u21	I can certainly underline the intention, but the decision itself comes when we take it together here. The law contains brackets. Mr Van Raan and a number of others asked whether we were still discussing this with the Chamber. In that decision are the percentages and then you can record what is and is not increasing. It is my commitment, which I think is shared by a whole section of the Chamber, that we are very careful with those first-generation biofuels. Our joint commitment is not to increase that. That's what we'll decide in that decision. For the viewers at home, that may sound a bit strange, but the regulation is so structured that we are now creating a law as a kind of framework. In addition, further legislation will be introduced which will cover a number of aspects of this law. It sets out those percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u22	Does the Secretary of State see that one for some groups, at least for my group, is very important to the other? There is a theoretical possibility that today we will adopt a law laying down ambitions, and then the decision shows that we will not reduce the use of those primary crops. In that case, today, we would legally lay down that we are going to cause all kinds of misery in the world. We all have to be able to rule that out, don't we? Could the Secretary of State at least undertake to ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u23	Our common ambition is not to increase the misery in the world. I think that we should also ensure that we translate that correctly between this law and the actual decision. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u24	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yes. The SGP asked about the distinction between those categories of "by-product' and "waste'. I can tell Mr Bishop that this is in the annex of the European Commission. It makes that distinction and has very clear criteria for it. If there are questions like "where does a substance fit" there is always an opportunity to bring that to the attention of the Commission. There is therefore a balancing framework for this. There was another question from the Party for Animals about woody biomass. How do we look at not allowing woody biomass? All efforts must demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria. Woody biomass can contribute in this way. Some of these raw materials have been put on the advanced list by the European Union. It would be a shame to exclude something that is advanced, whereas we want to make the movement from conventional to advanced. That remains the case for everything that we need to ensure that it is certified sustainable. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there are CO concerns in soy as well? That is a question from the SGP. As far as I am concerned, it is extremely important that the use of biofuel must meet sustainability criteria and reduction criteria in the chain. The Dutch line remains in order not to use soy for fuel. Fortunately, this has been the practice for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u26	About the woody biomass. It's kind of special, isn't it? On the one hand, government policy is to exclude woody biomass as quickly as possible in terms of energy generation and not to grant new subsidies for it, etc. But on the other hand, the Secretary of State says: for transport it would be a shame if we didn't use it. That depends on two thoughts, doesn't it? Does she see those two thoughts? I see her shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u27	No. If you say you don't want to use any more biomass for anything, you see that it doesn't play any role at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u28	Correction: woody biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u29	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u30	For all biomass, if you had the view that it could not be used in any way in the transition to climate neutrality, there would be a huge gap in the possibilities of achieving that climate neutrality quickly. I see that Mr Van Raan nods and agrees. The use of bio-raw materials is therefore always a matter of making the most of them in the best possible way possible. Then burning for only heat is one of the most low-grade ways. That is why the cabinet is indeed in the process of looking at phasing it out. The use in advanced briofuels is just a step higher on that ladder of high-quality use. That is, of course, what we are looking for with each other: as high a commitment as possible. It also fits to be sharp all the time. That is why I appreciate Mr Van Raan's question, as always. It will be a process in which we see in time that an increasingly high-quality application of certain biomaterials is possible. That is why the SER also starts from a phasing-out and building-up path in terms of transition. In doing so, we move gradually, step by step, towards the highest possible use of these precious raw materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'll watch my body language, because nodding doesn't mean I agree that you need to use biomass to solve a climate problem. That is not the case. The Minister generalises it again and talks about biomass in general, but this is really specifically about woody biomass. That story is really different. Does she at least recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u32	I think that for every substance, for every stream of bio-raw materials, you should always look at that high-quality bet. Also when it comes to woody biomass, we need to analyse together the extent to which this can play a role in the joint task we have. That task, that purpose, we must achieve. That's what we're all responsible for. We want to achieve this in the best possible way. In doing so, we really need to keep an eye on the concerns about biodiversity loss and pollution concerns. We are talking about a covid crisis, but there are also a number of other very large crises that are coming towards us. In doing so, we must always use the touchstone, such as: does this help, does it help enough, or is it time to go to a next step? That is how I interpret Mr Van Raan's question for the future. Let us continue to focus on the question of whether, for example, for woody biomass, we could move towards a next more high-quality application. I am also sure that the House of Representatives will keep the ruler of service on top of that. That will continue to be a development. Then stimulate hydrogen. Suppose we gradually, especially in light transport, want to achieve the highest possible use of biofuels. If we then see that there are alternatives to biofuels at some point, such as electrification, then it is also important that we ensure that we can make the transition to electrification where that can be done and that we do not make unnecessary use of those scarce bio-raw materials. In addition to the RED, the cabinet stimulates electric transport in a variety of ways. We have deployed this in many ways in the Climate Agreement. But also through RED II we are committed to stimulating the use of electricity and hydrogen. Hydrogen becomes an important energy carrier for the sustainability of transport. Not only for light transport, but especially for heavier transport, this is a really interesting option. That is why the move towards green hydrogen.................................................................................................................................................................................................... This policy, which focuses on renewable energy, can stimulate it. Therefore, this legislative proposal introduces possibilities for using renewable hydrogen and related fuels for the annual obligation. Nationally, for example, I intend to grant an incentive factor that is not currently foreseen by RED II. So we're gonna make it extra attractive. In addition, we have the DKTI grant scheme, the roll-out of service stations and the development of innovative applications. I am also actively involved in the European hydrogen innovation programme. These include 60 hydrogen buses that will soon be driving in the Netherlands. I was also able to introduce the first hydrogen train in the Netherlands, to the north. The Labour Party has also explicitly asked for it. It is, of course, important that green hydrogen has to be shown to contribute to CO reduction at the same time. We have discussions with EZK and the sector about this. Its operationalisation will also land in later regulations. I think that to a large extent meets the question of how to deal with such an electrolyser. Should it enter into force immediately and so on? Hopefully we will have worked out all these questions well together. We want to record it because we want to encourage it. Then we must also ensure that it is an incentive in practice and not unworkable for the sector. That is certainly how I interpret the questions at this point. We will ensure that we implement this in a proper way. The debate on hydrogen in refining is also ongoing, I say in response to Mr Geurts' question. In my view, he also asked for some of the practical obstacles that might arise. I would also like to say to Mr Geurts: we really need to make sure that it works in practice as we do with each other. Hydrogen in refining is covered by industry and not by transport, even when we are talking about incentives within the RED II. Then we are really focused on stimulating the deployment in transport. In addition, there are other instruments that we are also using, for example, the SDE+........................................................................................................................................................ I'm sure we'll be very careful about that. This also has to do with the question of additionality. This follows from a European delegated act; Mr Geurts asked for it. The effects of this are still ongoing. I am, of course, looking for as much space as possible in Europe in defining what is allowed in relation to additionality. In short, we're putting together a little puzzle. How do these different instruments and legal frameworks relate to each other? How do we ensure that we stimulate where we want to stimulate it, not only on paper but also in practice? And at the same time how do we prevent some kind of double support? 'Cause then we're gonna shoot again. It is an important discussion with EZK to ensure that this is properly aligned. How do we guarantee that this law stimulates the transition to EV, asked D66. I hope that I have given an important response to that. I will come back to the stakes in inland waterway transport in a moment. D66 asked how we look at the double count factor four for EV. The electrification of transport is a very important development and the annual obligation contributes to this. A double count is laid down in the Energy Transport Scheme; so here again the hook in the scheme with the final values. In itself, I am in favour of this factor four, because this will strengthen the commitment to this development once again. When we see how fast this development is going, we would like to strengthen it. I am in favour of this, but we will come back to the regulation. The CDA asked how an HBE could help with loading stations at home and SMEs, so that not only the large high-speed charging stations could benefit from them. Can we not make this attractive to smaller producers as well? I think this is certainly an interesting option, once again in view of the desire to encourage the transition to electricity in light transport as much as possible. This means, once again, that we do not use these precious biofuels where this is not necessary. Loading posts at home do have a low occupancy, and as a result the administrative burden is relatively high. A possible solution would then be to create the possibility of pooling loading posts, as it were, through intermediaries. Mr Geurts referred to the German example. I will certainly look into that, because I do have a number of questions about feasibility, double counting and fraud. If the Germans have found a solution, I wonder what that solution is. I want to see if this is possible. I will inform the Chamber about this, but I will also deal specifically with the questions I am referring to here. Of course, we would have liked to have worked that out with each other before we decided to do so. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions, first of all about supervision. Public oversight is risk-driven. It looks at how mass and balance connect and knock together. Private supervision is currently being shaped at European level through a delegated act. In the chain analysis I also paid attention to the private working methods and the possibilities for necessary improvements. This bill is also a way of strengthening that supervision. We actively sent this bill to that effect. I would remind you once again of the concerns about the biodiesel fraud that has occurred. Strengthening public oversight through the NEA is really an important element for me. That's what we're anchoring with this law. I therefore hope, of course, that the House will support it. Then there was the question of the Party for Animals to ensure that palm oil can be converted. I think it's going to affect PFAD, too. Indeed, we need to focus on making the system more robust and strengthening transparency and supervision. I remain committed to this with like-minded Member States. Again, on the issue of biodiesel fraud, we have really actively sought out contacts and, with our German, French and Belgian colleagues, looked at what the other major producers in Europe are and how we can ensure that, after any fraud that we have discovered, we all close the loopholes. So it's just about continuous vigilance. Every time we get signals again, we have to make sure that we examine these signals carefully and see if there is any reason to tighten up monitoring and monitoring. Then the question of the CDA was whether the influence of covid is known. That has to do, I think, with the objective of the first generation of biofuels. Renewable energy consumption in 2020 was around 13% less than expected. Where necessary, we will take the impact of corona with us. That's what we do in all the policies. What we're going to look at most is whether it's a trend break or not. If it fits the normal trend, there need be no reason to change anything there. But we will come back to this decision. The Party for Animals asked about the reflection on the amount of bio in aviation that is reasonably possible. That is mainly the Minister's area. Mr Van Raan knows that. But in broad terms, for aviation and shipping, we know that we are talking about huge amounts of fuel. At the same time, these sectors have a great deal to do in order to make their sector more sustainable. The discussion on how this should be done and on what role biofuel, hydrogen or other technologies can play will certainly be discussed. At the moment in the use of bio in aviation very limited. The first draft proposals on the EU obligation to add aviation are based on 5% by 2030, consisting of almost entirely advanced biofuels: 4.3 would be advanced biofuels and 0.7 renewable synthetic fuels. That is what is currently being discussed in the first draft proposals. Bet in the Netherlands from 2030 to 2050: broadening and deploying raw materials on synthetics. Further details can be found in the Sustainable Aviation Fuels Action Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u33	Those numbers are familiar to me. It's nice that we're talking about the same numbers. What is not included is how much energy is needed to produce, in particular, those synthetic e-fuels, which are 0.7%. I wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to put together how much energy is involved and put it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u34	Let me pass on the request to the Minister who is discussing this dossier with the Chamber and ask if she can provide further information at any time. Again, we want to know exactly what we're doing with each other. Actual information helps with that. Many of you have asked questions about inland waterway transport. In inland waterway transport, major steps are being taken in the coming years for further sustainability. At present there is no annual obligation, but as an Urgenda measure in that green deal inland navigation and in the Climate Agreement the agreement is made to bring inland waterway supplies below the annual obligation. This legislation provides the basis for this, i.e. the hook. The decision on energy transport will make the final choice. Some of the concerns you mentioned are also being discussed by the Minister with the sector, because this is also covered by the Minister's portfolio. She is still talking to the sector about this. I think it is very important that all these concerns are discussed. It is good to note that the European Commission has drawn the Netherlands' attention to the fact that inland waterway transport should have been covered by the Fuel Quality Directive's CO2 reduction obligation by 2020 and that this should also be corrected. So we do have a challenge from European legislation. This bill corrects this by bringing fuel suppliers to inland waterway transport under the reduction obligation. Once again, the Minister is still talking to the sector, taking into account all your concerns, about how and in what way exactly. The reduction obligation is also demonstrated by submitting an HBE. The reduction obligation and the annual obligation were almost equal in 2020. Even though it was not yet covered by the annual obligation, the reduction obligations and the annual obligations were about the same in 2020. Then the concern of the SGP how we ensure that there is no bunkering in Germany. We have been fooled by the Commission because we have not implemented it properly. You would say that this would ensure a level playing field in the EU. Then that risk should be small, too. This is also partly due to the European obligation. Once again, these concerns come back to me in a few nice suggestions for answers to specific questions. We take the concerns seriously. It is being discussed with the sector. In the TNO report, a question from the ChristianUnion related to this issue was made by his suggestions for good housekeeping. That will, of course, be looked at. We will also, of course, monitor the situation closely during the first year. The Minister will return to that in her letter to you. Then I have a few more answers here. The SP had indeed asked whether it is true that other Member States exclude inland waterway transport and which countries do or do not. All Member States should bring inland waterway transport under the reduction obligation. The Commission has called on Member States that have not done so, including the Netherlands, to make this right. So that gives you a level playing field. Is it true that the environmental advantage is low in inland waterway transport? No, all the use of renewable energy in this system, regardless of destination, has climate gains. This is selected, because all efforts must meet strict criteria for sustainability and chain reductions. The SGP still asked for quality standards for biofuels in inland navigation. These requirements are laid down in the European Fuel Quality Directive. Then there was another question from the SP as to whether there will be no enforcement until quality is guaranteed. Once again, all fuels supplied to inland waterway transport must meet the quality standards. I think there was actually a specific concern. If there is one, I can imagine that I will pass it on to the Minister for her discussions with the sector and we will see how we can clarify that. Then a separate slow build-up in inland waterway transport. With the law, we control raw materials, not sectors. That would really require a system change with multiple HBEs. You'll get a segmentation. This takes a great deal of time and does not fit in with the progress we will have to make in inland waterway transport. Then the SGP asked: why are we sending at 27% in 2030, when the Commission goes up to 7% to 14%? In addition to a European commitment, the Netherlands has made an agreement in the Climate Agreement to use more renewable biofuels. We have done so on the basis of the overarching objective that we have wanted to share it with each other in such a cost-effective way across the different sectors. That's what I started my input on. Both objectives for road transport together with inland waterway transport result in these 27%. Then the quarterly booking of HBE in the shipping industry. This legislative amendment takes steps to facilitate booking during the year for companies. We are not yet ready to do so on a quarterly basis, because this means a major burden increase for the market, especially for the smaller book-iners. Perhaps we can think a little further about this direction of the decision, but in advance administrative burdens seem to be particularly problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u35	Where are you, Secretary of State? It sounds a bit like you've finished a block of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u36	It sounds like I have answered Members' questions, but at least one question has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes, but this was your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u39	Oh, very nice. Well, Mr. Alkaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u40	I understand that inland waterway transport should also be included in the reduction target, but that is different from participating in this obligation to mix fuels. My question was: is it true that inland waterway transport is excluded from this directive by certain Member States and, if so, which Member States are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u41	Before we also enter into a semantic discussion on this issue: there is a directive that we have to comply with and a green deal has been concluded as part of the agreements in the Urgenda package. Together they lead to the agreement with the sector to set it up in this way. Once again, the Minister talks to the sector about the specific impact and a few concerns that have also been mentioned in your Chamber. In doing so, it may be somewhat different from the countries around us, because they do not all have an Urgenda pronunciation and a Climate Agreement in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u42	I get that. At the same time, the Secretary of State does not answer the question of which Member States have done so. I have heard from the SGP Group that it might be our neighbouring countries that exempt inland waterway transport from the directive, the implementing law, which we are discussing today. In any case, I see a practical risk, but also a more fundamental risk, namely that our inland waterway vessels will soon be faced with an unworkable situation, because we are here to adopt a law which still has a number of things to settle in a decision, as has just been the case. But we don't have that decision yet. So we're going to lay down things in the law that the skippers say they can't handle because it doesn't work. The Secretary of State then says: yes, but the Minister is still in discussion and we are going to talk about the decision. But then we can't vote on the law with peace of mind, can we? Isn't there something essential going wrong here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u43	I don't think so. The law lays down the European legal framework: we are going to comply with the obligation that the European Commission has imposed on us all and for which the European Commission has turned a blind eye to the Netherlands. We make that translation here in the law, and the further elaboration on it......................................................................................................................................................................................... We are not deciding on this now, it will only come in another round. Then we can see whether the effect of this obligation as laid down in the law does not lead to insurmountable problems. The context is that we have also concluded a climate agreement and a green deal. This is a context that is slightly different in the Netherlands than in a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally. That context is clear. But it is now specifically about this implementation law. What is the impact of this on inland waterway vessels, not only on their ships, but also on the waterbed effect, which the SGP Group also indicated? So we don't have that information yet. Can the Secretary of State send us that information, or is she going to believe that we are going to vote on this law without having that information? Will Germany and Belgium also ensure that their inland waterway vessels are required to refuel with fuels in which biofuels are mixed? Or aren't they going to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u45	What I can look at is, however, I do not know whether we can simply have that information at our disposal, which Member States have asked the European Commission to amend their legislation because it is not in conformity with the directive. I could check to see if there's any information. If so, I can certainly send it to you. Some of the European legislation should have been transposed into our legislation, but that has not yet been done. The Commission believes that this will disrupt the level playing field in the Netherlands. We'll fix that with this law. We just have to do that. We don't have a choice. In addition, there are a number of issues which are reflected in the decision, in which some of the concerns come back. The Minister is still talking about this with the sector. No decision has yet been taken on this, which would then now be unworkable. This is a repair that we are making on the basis of the directive, which we, as the Netherlands, did not comply with, while some countries around us do. But I am quite prepared to see if we can find out which countries have been called upon by the Commission to amend their legislation if we have access to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u46	The discussion about all these types of oils and seeds, which are used for oil production, is complicated, but we can assume that anything that competes with the food supply is not good. In my information I have just found that in 2019 the Netherlands used even more than half palm oil for biodiesel. I just read that: half of the biodiesel production in the Netherlands in 2019 would consist of palm oil. Now I don't care whether it's palm oil or anything else. It's not all right, because we want to get rid of the whole biodiesel mix. But I just heard the Secretary of State say that the Netherlands does not use palm oil or soya oil to mix in biofuels. Then I wonder: what do we use? And is that share going to increase or decrease in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u47	What Mr Madlener refers to is the residual flows of palm oil production. Those residual flows are used, but not the food crop palm oil. I think that's where the confusion arose. We were just asked to make sure that we keep a close eye on whether there is no suction effect, namely that you are going to produce palm oil peels or fatty acids for the incorporation. That was a concern of Mr Van Raan. In the Netherlands, therefore, there is no pure use of palm oil, but there are reflows from palm oil production. That's where the difference lies. It is important to clarify this, because otherwise there will be very wrong images of what we are using in the Netherlands. We must also be vigilant, I say with Mr Van Raan. We have to watch that with each other all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u48	Well, there's a need for vigilance. What is certain is that it is not good if we increase demand for palm products from those countries. In the Netherlands few palm trees grow, at least not large-scale. So we are talking here about whether the Netherlands will contribute to a higher demand for vegetarian oil in the coming years. Is it going up or down? And for what crops does the question go up? Whether it's subfluxes or not, it's from palm trees. If we increase demand, by increasing the obligation to mix, then we will contribute to additional deforestation. What is the Netherlands going to do? What's it look like in a couple of years? Is it going up or down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u49	We in the Netherlands have said that growth, as proposed in the Climate Agreement, must come from advanced biofuels and not from food crops. That's the deal we made. This is not going to attract additional palm oil, which Mr Madlener is talking about, because the growth comes from advanced biofuels, that is, from waste and waste streams. That's where we want to get the growth out of in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u50	It is a huge amount of fuel that we produce and consume. So this is about such large quantities. You can't get it out of fry fat, can you? This requires production, often in countries such as Brazil, Indonesia, the Philippines, you name it. That's not a residual product, is it? It comes from its production.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Madlener, together with me, must make a distinction between palm oil produced specifically for biofuel in competition with food and palm oil which is already used for all these other products. Because it is in virtually everything, from ice cream to shampoo, all those products from which Mr Madlener may also enjoy some daily. Lots of products contain palm oil. Then it is extremely important that the production of that palm oil is certified, preserved. That's crucial, just because it's in everything. A residual stream of that palm oil, which we use in all those daily products, can be used to make biofuel. That is quite different from the fact that we are going to produce palm oil in competition with food, because that is what the Chamber rightly has concerns about here and which it would not want to see any growth in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u52	In conclusion. It's just about increasing demand for palm products. You do this either by mixing the reflows or by mixing the main product. I don't care if it's a by-product or not, because it increases demand and the use goes up. It's gonna turn around. Then the by-product has become the main product and the by-product goes into your soaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u53	But precisely from the discussion we are having here about food versus fuel, the distinction between main product and residual product is actually the crux. That's what it's all about. Now saying that it doesn't matter doesn't do justice to the discussion we're having here or to the fact that we're also very keen in the Netherlands on the use of fodder for biofuels. In addition, we need to be alert actually find the Party for Animals and the PVV each other here; that doesn't always happen, but in this case it happens on the question of whether there will be a moment when the residual product becomes more interesting than the main product. If you were, you'd be in the wrong place. But when you see how big the production of palm oil is for all kinds of other products and where it's all in, Mr Van Raan can explain that even better than I do; he's pretty much graduated from palm oil, I think you understand that you're also left with a huge amount of residual products. You can either dump it or burn it, or you can turn it into biofuels that replace fossil fuels. Because, of course, that's the replacement we have here. We have to keep looking at it under the line. I also appreciate the sharpness of the Chamber in this. If anything under the line doesn't work, we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u54	Speaking of sharpness, I understood that the Secretary of State had come a little to the end of her reply in the first term, and this also fits in with the discussion of the net. Because I had one more question open. I had pointed out that combating fraud was an important element of this legislation. I had asked if the Secretary of State could indicate how public and private supervision is given hands and feet, and I also asked for current examples. I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u55	For example, we have really strengthened the role of the Dutch Emission Authority in the public oversight of the chain. So far, that has been mostly private supervision. We have strengthened public oversight through the Dutch Emission Authority to ensure that we have better controls on the actual substance of what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u56	That is only partly because I also saw in the note on the report that the Secretary of State is committed to extending public oversight at European level. What else is needed, and can we give examples of this? A concrete example is, of course, that there is no fraud with these flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u57	One of the issues related to certification is the question: who then checks the certification bodies? It is therefore a question of public oversight of the parties who are entitled to certify that a company certify a certain flow according to sustainable criteria? That is one such example of something that I actually think we should strengthen at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u58	Rounding up. Do I understand from this that it is mentioned, also in a directive, and that it is a bit translated into Dutch law, but that the Dutch situation is not yet prepared for situations that may arise, as the PVV Group has just indicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u59	As a result, I asked again how the European Commission is doing this. It is a shared concern of the Chamber and Cabinet to remain alert and vigilant as to whether what we are doing really leads to an improvement. The Commission has a number of things to say about this. They've got those lists. Those lists shall also be updated at regular intervals. So these are lists of what's advanced, what's residual flows and what's residues. The question of whether you are reaching a tipping point can, of course, mean that something falls off such a list. That can play a role in such an actualization. The European Commission looks at the impact on the existing market, the risk of deforestation and the principles of circular economy. I can see if I can give some further information on this in the second term. If Mr Geurts wishes to have some more precise information on this, I will take care of it in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u60	If we have this discussion, with the large numbers of open ends remaining in this whole proposal, shouldn't the Secretary of State's conclusion be that this is just premature? Just consider the way in which the required amount for incorporation is, as it were, trivialized as "residual flows." It's about billions of gallons, you really want to do something with this. And then you haven't achieved your ambition yet. So the system isn't ready. Does the Secretary of State agree with me, at least in view of the stated ambitions? This means that you have to choose a different route to keep it feasible, feasible and affordable. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u61	Unfortunately, I do not agree with Mr Bishop. This is precisely what we are doing in relation to the current situation, in which biofuels are already being used, following European commitments and our commitments in the Climate Agreement to achieve the 49% target. We want to strengthen that guarantee. Mr Bishop asks: is that already ideal? No, it's not ideal yet. But it's an important, strengthening step. Some of the issues raised in the debate are covered by the law and are further developed in the decision. Mr Bishop is very familiar with this, also because of his good knowledge of the relationship between legislation, AMvBs and regulations. He also knows that we are going to talk about this further. This bill is really an important strengthening of the system that is now in place and offers a number of necessary steps to move forward, actually in the direction he is also setting out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u62	That legal story will all be true, but I am concerned about the feasibility. If you want to take these measures, take these steps and try to imagine what more is needed, then I share with Mr Madlener that there is no other way than to increase the pressure on the market on the demand side, that the risk that rainforests will indeed be demolished for it, and that there will be a huge pressure on it to commit fraudulent acts, to improve it or to comply with it. But I am concerned about the practical effect of this. I would like to add a few more points, which I would like to add. I should look up the source, but Germany and Belgium are currently excluding inland waterway transport from the obligation to mix. Of course, inland waterway transport also has to meet certain requirements; they have their own ways of doing so. But these countries are acting differently from the Netherlands in relation to this sector. So you're gonna disturb the level playing field again. I would like to make these two points very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u63	First things first. In fact, I hear Mr Bishop say that he understands that this legislation strengthens the system. That's what this law is about, too. But he has concerns about whether there can be sufficient monitoring of the total pool of biofuels that we are going to use with each other in the light of incentives that might be there. I would be able to follow Mr Bishop in that if we really were to put maximum, maximum, maximum effort on that biofuel. I've been reluctant to do that. We had the Climate Agreement map out what the potential would be for increasing the biofuels target to reach 49%. Mr Bishop also remembers that these were sometimes quite difficult discussions, because in industry, in agriculture, in the built environment and in transport, you have to take measures to achieve that 49%. An easy solution would have been to assume the maximum potential yield, of which the PBL said: you could fill it in through biofuels. That was about five megatons. We sat down on 2 just because I want that caution. In theory, I also understand that such a system can be created. If the pressure gets too high, fraud becomes extra attractive. This is therefore a sector in which we need to continue with cautious growth, avoid unnecessary commitment, and hence the emphasis on electrification, and in parallel we need to strengthen the guarantee of this whole system. That is what we are committed to in the Netherlands, and that is what I am committed to in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u64	The last words of the Secretary of State merely confirm what Mr Bishop says. Why do we start this already if we still have to do a lot of things? As I've already graduated from palm oil, I've graduated even more from certification of certifiers and residual flows. I would nevertheless like to try to see if the Secretary of State is inclined to hang out with Mr Madlener and me, and now with many others in this Chamber, on the following. The moment it becomes clear that the residual product becomes more important than the main product..................................................................................................................................................................................... Does the Secretary of State at least agree with us? If we show that, and there are already sounds in that direction, is the Secretary of State prepared to withdraw at least this part for that pfad and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u65	As far as the withdrawal is concerned, the question is what you're moving in. Let me address Mr Van Raan. Mr Van Raan knows the commitment with which I am doing this work. I do that because I want to improve something. If there's really serious evidence that something is going to be counterproductive at some point, we need to get rid of it. It's as simple as that. I do think we're a trustworthy government. That is the point I wish to make. After all, we ask entrepreneurs to invest. So I think that if we come to the conclusion... we have done the same with the coal plants. I have been told a number of times that it was a D66 minister who thought at the time that these coal plants might be in the interests of the stability of our electricity supply. Later, we began to recognise that these were a major problem for achieving our climate objectives. We then came to a phase-out of it again, but in a way that did justice to investments that have been made. If Mr Van Raan says 'I think that is a good point, and we are going to look together for a carefully phased-out path', I can imagine. For the use of woody biomass for heat combustion, the Chamber has also adopted a motion asking for it to be looked at precisely from that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u66	Funny that the Secretary of State calls that example of woody biomass and the phasing-out path, because that path is something that is still not coming and is still not there. We are still spending 9 billion to 2030 on woody biomass. But thank you for the commitment that the Secretary of State is prepared to return to her steps when we see that things are going wrong. The thesis is, of course, that we already know that things are going wrong. So I'm still looking for what evidence the Secretary of State is looking for to make that turn with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u67	If we had the impression that it is not a residual product but a main product, that is actually the tipping point Mr Van Raan is talking about. And if we came to the conclusion that production along that road, where there really is land-use change, should fall under the same category as palm oil or soya oil, you would just have another discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u68	I have a question along the lines of the construction or the phasing-out. From the past, of course, we have also learned that by creating a demand, such as with our homes, which were equipped with gas, but also with our cars, which run on fossil fuel, we are creating a market and also a path dependency towards the future. Maybe the Secretary of State could take us into the path of winding down again? We have heard it from EV, but what about the other sectors? We have all said here in the Chamber that we see it as a transition fuel. So can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u69	Yes. I believe that certain agreements have been made in the climate agreement. This also applies to the use of biofuels. These are also the objectives that we need to achieve together. Also in the context of the discussion I had with Mr Van Raan, I said that, of course, we must ensure that we continue to meet the objectives we have agreed on. Of course, the choices you make in it must be in tune with that great path that you want to fill out with each other. On the phasing-out path, I will have to come back in second place, because we simply did not agree on any specific dates for this. Of course, we have put an important dot on the horizon with the phasing-out or, in fact, the cabinet wants to stop selling new fossil fuel cars from 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u70	I am particularly concerned about the following. Look, passenger transport is already electrifying. But I am particularly curious to see how we can ensure that we not only create a market but also offer a future perspective, especially to those sectors that are not yet electrified. It's fine if that comes in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u71	Fine. So much for the first term. The Secretary of State's gonna put it on an appetizer right away, so we're gonna get all those answers in second term. Is there a need for a second term for members? Yes, that's the case. That's the wrong answer, but okay. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Hagen from the D66 Group. Like everyone else, she has a third of the first-term time spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Chairman. This is a really special day, of course. Beautiful, beautiful maiden speeches, for which much thanks. I have just indicated it in an interruption, but in my first term I have mainly pointed out that it is important that we also look at how we are going to reduce this again. We're about to create a market for this biofuel and demand it. I just want to build something that we can take down again. I welcome the somewhat positive response of the Secretary of State to my amendment. I think it is good to hear what the request for amendment is, so that it is clear to the rest of the Chamber which has already expressed its support. Compliments for the stakes on EV and the positive against factor 4. The faster we electrify, the less biofuel we use. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. It has been discussed more often today and we do not want to use food for biofuel either. We have co-signed the D66 amendment on the eradication of soya. We hope that this amendment will receive a majority. We will also support the amendment by the Animal Party on the eradication of food. We too are in favour of encouraging the electrification of transport. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas electrification of the transport sector can use all aid;]] [[noting that the Renewable Energy Directive offers this possibility, both for road and inland waterway transport, using the multiplication factor 4 in the Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the multiplier of 4 for electric transport, both for road and inland waterway vessels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u75	My next motion is about palm oil. I learned today that Mr Van Raan has done a study on this. I'm very curious about that. I would like to make a motion on this. Fortunately, many steps have already been taken, but we are still concerned about the by-products of palm oil. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residues of palm oil are not phased out;]] [[Whereas these residual products are used as raw materials for other industries, which threatens to increase the demand for palm oil;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the negative effects of the incorporation of these residual products on the production of palm oil and, where this has been demonstrated, to take steps to prevent this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bouchallichh and Mr De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u76	When should that study be completed according to GroenLinks? We are going to vote on this and this is a rather essential part; we have just had that debate. Is this investigation a condition before we can vote on the law? Or can the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also express an opinion on this law without the investigation being conducted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u77	I don't have a date for that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u78	Okay. So that means that GroenLinks can also form an opinion on this law, in which that research is an important part, namely to see whether this law is sustainable or not. It could also turn out very wrong. That was an important debate with the government just now. But according to GroenLinks, we do not have to wait until we can vote on this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u79	I don't have an answer for this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that I do know the Secretary of State as someone who wants to make the world a better place. That has to be said, but it is a law that raises the question on all sides whether you should start introducing it, because there are so many risks. For the sake of time, I won't repeat them all. Thank you for the commitment to continue the question to the Minister as to how much energy is involved in 4.7% of e-fuels for aviation. Thank you for the beautiful maiden speeches, again. We have heard that the risk of land use is increasing. We share Mr Madlener's analysis. There's fraud sensitivity. Mr. Chairman. This law is throbbing in a dead end. That is why we have tabled the following motions and the amendments we have tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands does not have sufficient sustainable sources of biofuel;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is obliged to import raw materials due to this shortage;]] [[Whereas NGOs warn that the import of raw materials could contribute to ILUC risks and human rights violations and land robbery;]] [[calls on the Government to actively monitor these external risks and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the raw materials referred to in Part A of Annex IX to the Renewable Energy Directive may be used for biofuel per ministerial arrangement will be determined;]] [[Whereas not all the possibilities set out in Part A of Annex IX to the Renewable Energy Directive are truly sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to attach a suspension procedure to the above-mentioned ministerial arrangement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of woody biomass is not excluded for the production of biofuel;]] [[Whereas woody biomass presents a major risk of deforestation;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude all forms of woody biomass from use for biofuels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of food and fodder for fuel is not a long-term sustainable option;]] [[Whereas the Environmental Management Act lays down that food and fodder may be used for biofuels;]] [[calls on the Government to phase out the use of food and fodder for biofuel as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u82	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you. Then we're going to listen to De Hoop of the Labour Party's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I would like to table two motions because my group is concerned about the use of biofuels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas biofuels produced from food and forage crops lead to the use of scarce soil and deforestation;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Energy Transport Decision a phasing-out path for biofuels from food and fodder, so that they may not be used from 2023 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u85	I also have a motion on the impact assessment, which we asked for in the first period. This motion is co-signed by Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sustainable biomass is limited and should not be subject to a disproportionate burden on the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the use of biofuels in traffic, shipping and aviation planned by the Cabinet is substantial and its consequences have not yet been properly assessed;]] [[calls on the government to carry out an impact assessment of the expected increase in demand for biofuels by taking into account, if possible, the expected origin of biofuels in the government's government's policy (proposed) policy;]] [[Calls on the Government to forward this impact assessment to the Chamber for implementation of the Energy Transport Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Let's start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that electricity is much less often entered in the Energy for Transport Register (REV) than biofuels;]] [[Whereas administrative and financial thresholds make it difficult for small players in electric transport to enter electricity in the register;]] [[Whereas in Germany small players in electric transport may designate a third party to collect electricity aggregated;]] [[Whereas aggregated booking of electricity makes investments in charging infrastructure more attractive;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of aggregated electricity booking in the Energy for Transport Register and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u89	This motion is actually part of the amendment that has created a possibility clause in the law. Mr. Chairman. One more point on inland waterway transport. The Secretary of State indicated that she is in conversation with the sector. Ah, the Minister! I hear the minister's gonna do that. Fine. Safety shall be actively monitored and monitored. Is the Court reported on these talks and on the safety of mixtures in inland waterway transport before the obligation to mix in inland waterway transport? The point is that we are not taking a step that is irresponsible. Then the final point. The Secretary of State addressed me at the megatons in the mobility sector and chose a new base year, namely 2005. Yeah, that's how I can do it. The base year generally used in climate country is 1990. And compared to 1990 emissions have still not fallen. This is the case compared to 2005. That's right, but first we made a spurt from 1990 to 2005. In this respect, it is not good with what we all emit when we move, with all that mobility. In my view, we agree on this and we agree on the need for it to be different and less. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you. Another question from Mr Alkaya. Would you like to return to the cathedral?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u91	I actually have a question similar to that I just asked GroenLinks. Now I hear from the Christian Union that inland waterway transport is important. The minister talks about it and the Christian Union likes to hear what comes out of it. But it's pretty important what comes out of it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u93	Then we can form an opinion on what we have to decide. We're not gonna lay down the law first and then listen to what's been done with our concerns? Or is that order logical according to the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u94	We are indeed going to vote on this law, but at that time the obligation to mix inland waterway transport does not yet apply. It doesn't actually come into effect until after a while. Before it comes into force, I would like to hear the outcome of those talks on the monitoring and safety of these inland waterway vessels. What is the situation with regard to the supply lines, fuel tanks, moisture problems and the safety situation on these ships? Then I would like to hear whether it is justified to go into the mixing of biofuels in inland waterway transport at that time. I think that's a good order. So at the moment we say: wait a minute, we want to be informed as a Chamber before that mix-up has to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u95	So it seems to the Christian Union conceivable that we should establish a legal duty here and then refrain from maintaining it, because it is not good, because it simply cannot? I think that's crazy. We have just asked the government with the SGP Group to rule it out. Some Member States do. I have that information, too. The Secretary of State could not confirm or deny that. They simply don't have that information. So it is now an option to completely exclude inland waterway transport. But for the Christian Union, that's not an option, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u96	Right now, we're not going that far. We have confidence... the Secretary of State has promised two things that we have asked for, namely that they will monitor it and that they will talk to the sector. At the moment, it is not yet on the agenda that this incorporation is going to take place. So I'd like to wait and see what's gonna come out of it first. I am confident that this outgoing cabinet will not send inland navigation with unsafe ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Madlener of the Party for Freedom Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. I started this debate very sceptically and praised the newcomers for their new, fresh courage. And I have to say, I've become a little less skeptical. I started with the fact that twelve years ago, 2011 or so, I had some intense discussions here about biofuels, biomass and the burning of wood in plants. I was about the only opponent then, maybe along with the Party for Animals but then I can't remember. GroenLinks was very much in favour of doing so in the context of CO-neutral et cetera. In the meantime, we have learned from these mistakes. It has proved to be a huge mistake, but it has happened. I am now so afraid that we will have to put our policies back on track and say in ten years' time that this has led to enormous deforestation and rainforests. Then we're accomplices to that. That doesn't change the fact that I'm a little hopeful right now. A number of motions have been tabled which are very sceptical. Mr De Hoop has also tabled a fine motion on that point. So I do feel we're on guard. So we will support the critical motions. We are not going to vote for this European legislation, because we know that the use of vegetarian oil to burn is bad for the jungle and the world. So we shouldn't do that. And the PVV is in this Chamber to fight mass immigration and not to destroy jungle forests. We like to leave that to others. So we will vote against the law and for the critical motions. I thank the Chamber and the new people for their efforts in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you. I call Mr De Groot of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From this point of view, I would like to congratulate my colleagues on their maiden speech and thank them for their fine words. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer and in particular for the question of HBE shipping and the possible administrative burden that this will entail. The VVD considers it important that we have a clear view of where the raw materials come from and, above all, how they are used in the context of biofuels. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is now not sufficiently clear how the use of renewable energy per final destination, and in particular maritime transport, develops during the year;]] [[Whereas such an understanding is desirable in order to be able to steer it in good time;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a quarterly booking of supplies of renewable energy in maritime transport;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether the Dutch Emission Authority can report regularly, for example once a quarter, on the use of renewable energy per final destination and to take the impact on the administrative burden into account in both studies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Peter de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-356262-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u102	That was your contribution? Very good. Then Mr Bishop of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for her commitment to answer the questions. The nature of the reply was not entirely satisfactory, I say immediately. All in all, the aftertaste of the handling of this bill and the discussion surrounding it at the SGP leaves a somewhat bitter aftertaste. We have a strong impression that the cabinet and the environmental movement are a little confused. Climate ambitions are increasingly being stepped up without too much concern about realism and its feasibility and affordability. The environmental movement is not too bad to say what they do not want. No nuclear power, for example. While I think, well, dot, dot, dot. In our opinion, the cabinet is also a bit rushed, including the application of additional Dutch cups to EU requirements. To keep it a bit feasible and affordable, much is expected of biomass. How it stands with that... Gradually, more and more eyes are opening. What about biofuels? How it stands with that... Exactly. You're not responding because nobody knows. What about CO2 storage? Well... Mr. Chairman. How durable is all this? Isn't this just running from incident to incident and hoping that you're doing some good things, even if it's undoubtedly with the best of intentions? There are serious doubts for us. That is why we say: opt for sustainable measures, and simply adapt your ambitions to them in complete sobriety, and take steps forward in this way. The fact that something has to be done is not the point of discussion, but the point of how. Finally, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to include inland waterway transport under the obligation to mix biofuels;]] [[Whereas incorporation of biodiesel may involve risks to marine engines and that no targeted investigation has yet been carried out;]] [[Whereas, according to the Cabinet Plan, inland waterway transport is confronted at once with the regular, high rate of matching and associated price risks;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a short-term investigation into the risks posed by different types of biofuels for marine engines in inland navigation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with sectoral organisations, to consider how the introduction of the obligation to mix inland waterway transport can be carefully designed and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter for the consideration of the proposed draft decision for the revision of the Energy Transport Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Chairman. Whether this law will ultimately lead to the objective of contributing to combating global warming depends too much on things that are not clear today. Hence the motions we have seen today, on impact assessments, on further research, on discussions with sectors that are still taking place. However, we must already vote on a law in which we define ambitions and yet also a path. That worries me. I actually have a lot of doubts as to whether it will ultimately lead to a contribution to combating global warming, or perhaps even have a counter-effect. As a result, I do not think it is ripe enough to vote on it now. The decisions that follow have a huge impact on what the effect will be. If it is to come to this point that we are going to adopt that law as a Chamber, then I think it is important that sectors should not suffer from it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is considerable uncertainty as to the incorporation of biofuels into inland navigation with regard to both safety and suitability as well as sustainability;]] [[Whereas enforcement and compliance on the biofuel supply chain is complex and should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government not to maintain the obligation to mix inland waterway transport as long as safety, suitability and durability are not guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35626-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u107	Finally, Mr President. At the request of Mr Madlener, I tried to find out how the European Parliament voted. Well, I can assure you, that is not an easy matter. This shows how the European Union works. But there has been a negative vote to the group and the group members have either voted against or abstained. So either we voted against or we abstained. I was able to get that far at lunchtime, but there is still much to improve in the area of democracy in Brussels. That's confirmed, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you for clearing that up, because then it won't stay above the market either. Otherwise, we're gonna have a nasty feeling about going to the weekend, and we don't all want to go to the weekend. So thank you for that. How long does the Secretary of State need to think? We are voting after this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u109	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u110	Fifteen minutes. Well, I'll suspend until 3:15, but I hope we move on sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u111	We need the government's second term. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motions and the amendments, I would like to thank all Members for the debate. I think it was a nice debate and I think there are really shared concerns and shared wishes, namely that we should do this carefully. That is the common thread I hear through the contributions of all the groups. There are, of course, differences of opinion as well. I shall come back to the motions and amendments, but I do think it is important to highlight what this law does. It really is an improvement on the current situation. A number of comments are made on the current situation. This law may not be perfectly 100% waterproof on all parts, as we might want to have it for everything in the future, but it does provide all the foundations for achieving climate goals in a sustainable way, strengthens public oversight, increases transparency with, among other things, the Union database, and excludes that high ILUC, which we are concerned about. If we don't have the law, we can't do it. In that respect, therefore, I strongly recommend the law. The decision then sets the limits exactly in percentage and regulates the incentive factors. That is the translation into practical application. There are still a number of questions for information that you will find necessary before the decision can be taken. I shall come back to that in a moment to some of the amendments. Mr. Chairman. Mr Geurts asked for an illustration of this public oversight. If you look at how we have been able to expose the fraud in biofuels, you will see that we have not looked at it by link, but rather over the links. The certification body certify a link, but we can see that with this public oversight we can better see through different links: is it still true? That's one of the points. We can compare the financial records across the various financial links. That eventually brought to light what went wrong. That's how we're gonna strengthen public oversight. It is a very concrete illustration of how we could have brought something to light that we did not want to be together. We are going to overcome the fact that this can still be done in the future in the same way. Mr President, then there are the motions. The motion in part No. 15 by Mrs Bouchallichh I give judgment Chamber. When calculating the incentive factor "country" in the energy transport scheme, I do intend to use the factor 4 in accordance with the RED II. The motion in part No. So 15 gets judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 16 by GroenLinks. In the Netherlands PFAD is not used, but I will investigate whether this raw material has risks of suction effect. I will check with the Commission to see if it can possibly go under high ILUC. If that is possible, we can discuss with each other in the decision what we want to do with it. I leave the opinion to the Chamber with these comments. Then the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Van Raan. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too. Monitoring has been undertaken by the Commission at European level. After all, it is a policy that regulates the EU market. I'll be sure to proactively inform the Chamber. I think that is Mr Van Raan's question. Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mr Van Raan. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. We will inform the Chamber about the European list when the decision is taken. Then Mr Van Raan has that information in the decision. Furthermore, the scheme is merely its effect. Political decisions are taken when we discuss the decision with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u113	One quick question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u114	Excuse me, there's been a misunderstanding. Let me illustrate it with an example. Suppose there are ten topics on the European list. On the Dutch list we can take over ten of them, but also eight of them. We would like to have that Dutch list. We would like to debate this in the Chamber rather than the European list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u115	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u116	I understand that, but when the decision comes to the Chamber, I'll make sure the lists are there. Then Mr Van Raan can say what he thinks about that. The Dutch list is a translation of the European list. A first subdivision was made there. We'll make sure the Chamber has those lists. Then Mr Van Raan can say what he wants. I'm not doing that with the scheme. I'm doing it with the decision. Then I'll make sure you have the information on that list. This motion calls for a suspension procedure in the case of a ministerial arrangement. We won't, but I'll send it to you. When we discuss the decision with each other, we also have an insight into the list we are going to use in the Netherlands. There may then be a difference of opinion between Mr Van Raan and the cabinet on which list the Netherlands should apply. For example, should there be a further selection? That is a legitimate political debate, but we do so when we discuss the decision. And I'll make sure you have that information, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u117	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u118	The motion in part No. 19 is about excluding woody biomass. I advise against this motion, and why I do so, I think we have exchanged enough in the debate. In the EU, it is determined whether these raw materials are included in a list of that specific annex and we are also actively following those pathways. But I'm not suggesting this motion. I should like to ask the authors of the motions for resolutions on the documents Nos. 20 and 21 want to ask them to hold. These motions are about a phase-out path for that small part, that 1.7%, that we now have of food crops. We have also agreed on a climate objective. Mr De Hoop proposed to delete it at once in 2023, which could have an impact on achieving our climate objectives. I think it is important that we have sufficient good alternatives if we are to rule something out. If not, CO emissions will go up, because we will replace it with fossil fuels or perhaps other biofuels that are worse than these. I would therefore suggest that we map the effects of the request contained in the motions. I will try to have that in your Chamber at the time of the discussion on the decision. Then we can discuss again with each other whether and in what way we would like to deal with these motions. My request to the authors is therefore for the motions to be put to the vote. 20 and 21, or I'll have to dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u119	I am looking first at Mr Van Raan, because that is the first author of the motion in part No. 20. Just nod, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u120	I know that, Mr President, but that is not the issue right now. If we already agree that the use of these food crops should be phased out as soon as possible, and if that is also the commitment of the Secretary of State, then as far as we are concerned, she can simply start doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u121	So you're not withdrawing the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u122	No, not in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u123	Then what is the verdict of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr President, I must advise against them at this time, given the context in which we agreed in the Climate Agreement. Otherwise, it's a very vague motion that actually doesn't say anything else. Mr De Hoop's is much more specific. It calls for a specific date. That is why I think it is right to map the impact if you choose to do so within a specific short period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u125	Clear. I would also like to refer to the motion on part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u126	The request is also here to hold that motion. I see Mr De Hoop nodding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. De Hoop seems to nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, I'd like to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u129	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u130	I agree with the Secretary of State's commitment, but the Secretary of State said: then I would like to try to deposit it with the Chamber for the decision. I really want to stress to her that my group considers it very important that we actually get it for the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u131	That's noted. So the motion De Hoop is being apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u132	I'm gonna go get it then. That's definitely my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u133	At the request of Mr De Hoop, I propose his motion (35626, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then the motion to part No. 22. It also calls for an impact assessment to be sent to the Chamber for the implementation decision. I think that's okay. So I can take over the motion or leave judgment room, because I intend to do so. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mr Grinwis. The annual obligation may contribute to the roll-out of REV. The aggregated booking of charging points can also contribute to this. However, there are also concerns. That is what we exchanged in the debate. So taking into account these concerns, I would like to have a look at the possibilities for that aggregated booking. There will be another amendment coming along which is related to this, but I will leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion. The motion of the VVD in part No. Twenty-four requesting an investigation. This motion, too, I leave to judge Chamber. We'll see if a quarter is right, but maybe another period is just better. Because of the administrative burden, we will map it. So judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 25 on inland waterway transport. The Minister is in talks with the sector and before examining the decision, the Chamber will be informed about the discussions. That is how I interpret Mr Bishop's motion and, if that is correct, I would also like to give this motion a Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u135	Then I'll miss the motion on part number one. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u136	I now come to the motion on part No. 26, Chairman! This was the motion in part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u137	I was early again!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u138	Yes. This motion I must advise against. All efforts must meet the quality requirements and the quality is therefore guaranteed. The obligation is also a European requirement and I must therefore advise against this motion. Then there was a question from Mr Grinwis on quality standards. I can repeat it again. It is good to know that there is already an addition in inland waterway transport at the moment. There is also a possibility to buy off that obligation to mix. So I'm saying you fill it in administratively instead of filling it in through actual incorporation into your own ship. Of course, I am prepared to monitor it, also in the context of the obligations. I think that is a very real question, so we will certainly do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr Grinwis is now absent, but somewhere in this building he breathes relievedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u140	I know the employees always listen in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u141	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u142	So we will certainly continue to monitor that. But quality requirements for commitment are of course also set at European level. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendments. First of all, the motion in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u143	The amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u144	Sorry, the amendment to part No. 8. Of this, I would be able to send a new written appreciation if that were to be changed. I'm assuming that's a good thing. That's about the next thing. The amendment now ignores the distinction that, as for palm oil, is still possible between high and low ILUC risk based on sustainability certification. This is very important, also in view of all international rules. In order to overcome this and make the amendment possible, it would be necessary to adapt the wording and take that distinction into account. If the author is willing to do so, I assume that I can give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u145	What is your answer to this, Mrs Hagen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u146	Very briefly formulated. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the current situation is actually taking place in legislation. If so, so no use of soya oil for biofuel, then I can accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u147	That distinction is important for a while. If we can make that, we can legally anchor it. If the amendment is amended, I will ensure that the written appreciation is due to the Chamber before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u148	And then we expect Mrs Hagen to give us a new version of what is now the amendment to item No. 8 is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. Nine I must advise against. As promised, I will always send the Energy Transport Decision to your Chamber in front of you. I am also doing this with the Energy Transport Decision for this implementation process. Setting limits and the principle of fair share is difficult to operationalize at the level of the AMvB. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. But I get the question. Therefore, instead of anchoring this amendment in the law, I would suggest that I ask the Dutch Emission Authority to take this aspect into account in its annual reporting on the use of biofuels. That report will be sent to your Room every year. So we can keep our finger on the wrist together, which I believe is an important reason for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u150	That is the amendment to item No. 9, but that has now received a new song, namely the number 27. Don't ask me why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u151	The ways of the Chamber are inscrutable in some respects, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 10, on mandatory suspension of the AMvB in order to develop the BKE-systematiek, is judged Chamber. We always do it, but if the Chamber would like to have it enshrined in the legislation on this point, I am of course not opposed to it. I'd like that. Any use of that BKE-systematiek would really require a further weighing. We do create the hook in the law to make it possible in due course, but that really requires a further weighing. It's fine to hang on to that. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 11, also from Mr Grinwis, is a sympathetic idea. We all want to stimulate electric driving. I welcome the proposal to include it with a possibility clause. I have just stated in the oral reply that there are a number of conditions that we must first look carefully at in order to assess whether it is possible and whether we should also want to have it with each other. But this hook is okay in that respect. I am going to investigate whether it would be possible within existing legislation and enforcement. But we will come back to the Chamber on that, as promised in the oral reply. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 13 calls for an evaluation. I think that's a very sensible idea. I am therefore happy to give that amendment by Mr Geurts to the Court of Justice, also because it is actually an answer to some of the concerns that have been raised in the Chamber today in the context of this debate. Such an evaluation will also give us the opportunity to say in a few years' time: "We had certain concerns. There have been certain answers and guarantees. Are they sufficient or do we believe that we should give a more detailed answer to this?" We will continue with this reinforcement, the improvement, the step we can take now, but we will not close our eyes that we may say in a few years' time that more is needed. So judge Room. Then there are the amendments to item No. 12 and item No. 14, which exclude certain things; therefore I want to answer them together. It is important to note that in the renewable energy system, this legislative proposal already addresses the exclusion of biofuels with high ILUC risks by 2022. The exclusion of conventional fuels per amendment leads to less CO reduction, and that is just where we have a responsibility. Once again, I have already indicated to the Chamber that I will explain further before the discussion on the decision in response to the motions. I therefore recommend that this be laid down in legislation at the moment. That applies to both the amendment on item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the amendment to item No. 12 as the I hope that I will be at the end of the answer and have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u152	I think so. There are no more questions, I'm not sure. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for her presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-20-tweedekamer-7.u153	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. I'm gonna suspend for a minute, and then we're gonna vote.
